SOUTH JACKSONVILLE, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 1099, passed - -
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, sUITE 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of South Jacksonville shall be
designated as the “Code of South Jacksonville” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY. Morgan County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Morgan County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY,ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser, and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of South Jacksonville. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons
in the employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or
shall hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PRESIDENT or VILLAGE PRESIDENT. The President of the Village of South
Jacksonville.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes: school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state, or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   VILLAGE. The Village of South Jacksonville.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law it shall be: in the proper handwriting of
that person, or in case he or she is unable to write, his or her proper mark;
or an electronic signature as defined in the Electronic Commerce Security Act,
5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq., except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03  SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06  REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   (a)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of
any privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment.
         (b)   The investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced, and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as
if the ordinance had not been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11  REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to: tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16  TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17  HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 38.04  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
Statutory reference:
   Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
6/1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY; LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Organizations
   
30.001   Local Planning Commission
Officials
   
30.020   Deputy Clerk
   
30.021   Residency of department heads
President and Board of Trustees
   
30.035   Rules for attendance at Board meetings by video or audio conference
   
30.036   Public participation during public meetings
   
30.037   Board meetings
   
30.038   Expense accounts
Personnel; Employees
   
30.050   Full-time employee definition
   
30.051   Participation in the State Municipal Retirement Fund
   
30.052   Prevailing wage rate adopted by reference
Personnel Administration
   
30.065   Title, scope, and purpose
   
30.066   Equal employment opportunity
   
30.067   Personnel system administration
   
30.068   Position classification plan
   
30.069   Pay plan
   
30.070   Employee benefits
   
30.071   Grievance procedure
   
30.072   Performance evaluation system
   
30.073   Regulation of employment
   
30.074   Appointment to village employment
   
30.075   Employee handbook
   
30.076   Rules and regulations
Ethical Conduct, Political Activities, Solicitation, and Acceptance of Gifts
   
30.090   Definitions
   
30.091   Prohibited political activities
   
30.092   Gift ban; exceptions
   
30.093   Ethics advisor
   
30.094   Ethics Commission
 
   
30.999   Penalty
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 30.001  LOCAL PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Purpose. In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation
of a comprehensive village plan for the guidance, direction, and control of the
growth and development of the village, a Plan Commission, which shall be a
department of the village government, is hereby created under authority of an
act of the general assembly of the state entitled “The Revised Cities and
Villages Act”, being 65 ILCS 5/1 et seq., approved August 15, 1941 and
effective January 1, 1942 and as amended.
   (B)   Membership. Said Plan Commission shall consist of seven members who
are to be citizens of the village. Henceforth, no person shall be a member of
the Plan Commission at the same time he or she holds any other office or
position with the village and any such persons presently serving shall do so
until expiration of their term or their earlier resignation from the Plan
Commission.
   (C)   Term of office. All present members of the Plan Commission shall
continue in office until expiration of their terms and thereafter they or their
successors shall be appointed to serve for a period of three years. Vacancies
shall be filled by appointments for unexpired terms only. All members of the
Commission shall serve without compensation except that, if the Village Board
of Trustees deems it advisable, the Secretary may receive such compensation as
may be fixed from time to time by said Board of Trustees and provided for in
the appropriation ordinance.
   (D)   Procedure. Immediately following their appointment, the members of the
Plan Commission shall meet, organize, elect such officers as it may deem
necessary, and adopt and later change or alter rules and regulations of
organization and procedure consistent with the village ordinances and state
laws. The Commission shall keep written records of its proceedings, which shall
be open at all times to public inspection. The Commission shall also file an
annual report with the President of the Board of Trustees and the Village Board
of Trustees setting forth its transactions and recommendations.
   (E)   Powers and duties. Said Plan Commission shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees of the village a
comprehensive plan of public improvements, looking to the present and future
development and growth of said village. Such plan after its adoption by the
Board of Trustees will be known as the official plan of the village, such plan
shall include reasonable requirements in reference to streets, alleys, and
public grounds within the corporate limits and in contiguous territory outside
of and distant not more than one and one-half miles from such limits, and not
included in any municipality, such requirements to be effective whenever such
lands shall be subdivided after the adoption of such plan;
      (2)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees of the village
from time to time such changes in the plan or any part thereof as may be deemed
necessary by the Village Board of Trustees or by the Plan Commission;
      (3)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board of Trustees from time
to time plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of
such officials plan;
      (4)   To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the
direction of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to
further the making of such improvements and generally to promote the
realization of the official plan;
      (5)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
      (6)   To cooperate with municipal or regional planning commissions and
other agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area; and
      (7)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of an act of the General Assembly of the state entitled “The Revised
Cities and Villages Act”, being 65 ILCS 5/1 et seq., approved on August 15,
1941 and effective January 1, 1942 as amended, as may be conferred by the
Village Board of Trustees.
   (F)   Land subdivision. Following the adoption of an official plan in the
manner prescribed in this act no map or plat of any subdivision presented for
record effecting land within the corporate limits of the village, or in
contiguous territory outside of and distant not more than one and one-half
miles from such limits and not included in any other municipality shall be
entitled to record or shall be valid unless the subdivision thereon shall
provide for streets, alleys, and public grounds in conformity with any
requirement applicable thereto to such official plan.
   (G)   Improvements. The Village Clerk shall furnish the Plan Commission for
its consideration a copy of all ordinances, plans, and data relative to public
improvements of any nature. The Plan Commission may report in relation thereto
if it deems a report necessary or advisable for consideration of the Village
Board of Trustees.
   (H)   Expenditures. The Commission may at the discretion of the Board of
Trustees employ necessary help whose salaries, wages, and other necessary
expenses shall be provided for by adequate appropriation made by the Board of
Trustees from the public funds. If said Plan Commission shall deem it advisable
to secure technical advice or services, it may be done upon authority from the
Board of Trustees and appropriation by the Board of Trustees therefor.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-19-1958; Ord. 714, passed 4-7-1993)
OFFICIALS
§ 30.020  DEPUTY CLERK.
   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10, the Municipal Clerk be and hereby is
authorized to appoint one Deputy Clerk.
(Ord. 587, passed 6-2-1983)
§ 30.021  RESIDENCY OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   Effective upon the passing of this section, village department heads shall
reside within the county.
(Ord. 1093, passed 9-3-2020)
PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.035  RULES FOR ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS BY VIDEO OR AUDIO CONFERENCE.
   The President and Trustees of the village may attend a meeting held for the
purpose of discussing public business by video or audio conference if the
following conditions are satisfied:
   (A)   A quorum of the Board of Trustees or Committee thereof is physically
present at the time and place set forth in the posted notice for the meeting;
   (B)   The member wishing to attend by video or audio conference is prevented
from physically attending the meeting because of: personal illness or
disability; employment purposes or the business of the village; or a family or
other emergency;
   (C)   The member wishing to attend by video or audio conference notifies the
Village Clerk before the meeting unless advance notice is impractical;
   (D)   A majority of the Board of Trustees or committee thereof is physically
present at the time and place set forth in the posted notice and vote in favor
of allowing the physically absent member to attend by video or audio
conference; and
   (E)   All members of the Board of Trustees or a committee thereof, including
a member participating by video or audio conference, and members of the public
and media attending the meeting (except when the Board of Trustees or a
committee thereof is meeting in closed session) are able to hear the
discussion, comments, and votes made by each member of the Board of Trustees or
committee thereof.
(Ord. 961, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 30.036  PUBLIC PARTICIPATION DURING PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   During the open session portion of all meetings of the Board of
Trustees and of committees established by the Board of Trustees, each citizen
addressing the Board or committee shall be limited to five minutes, unless
authorized to speak longer by a majority vote of the Trustees or committee
persons then voting.
   (B)   Each citizen shall confine his or her remarks to issues or business
relating to or impacting the village.
   (C)   Before being permitted to address the Board of Trustees or a
committee, each citizen shall be required to sign a registration card, to be
designed by the Village Clerk, stating his or her name, address, and proposed
topic.
(Ord. 948, passed 6-3-2011)
§ 30.037  BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Village President and the Board of Trustees shall hold their
regular meetings on the first Thursday of each month in the Village Hall in the
said village.
   (B)   Such regular meeting shall not be held at any other time or place
without a public notice to that effect made pursuant to a special resolution of
said Board.
   (C)   All special meetings shall be held in the Village Hall unless some
other place is agreed upon in said village.
   (D)   But the Village Board shall hold no meeting at any other place than
the Village Hall without causing public outcry to be made that the Village
Board is in session at such place.
   (E)   The Village Board shall sit at all times with open doors and shall
keep a journal of its proceedings, and may elect a temporary Chairperson in the
absence of the President.
   (F)   The Village President or any three Trustees may call special meetings
of the Village Board.
(Ord. 807, passed 9-2-1999)
§ 30.038  EXPENSE ACCOUNTS.
   The President and each Trustee shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred by
him or her in the performance of his or her duties as such President or Trustee
and said reimbursement shall be paid monthly in an amount equal to the monthly
salary of the said village officials and the same shall be payable
simultaneously with the monthly salary of said village officials.
(Ord. 403, passed 10-21-1971)
PERSONNEL; EMPLOYEES
§ 30.050  FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE DEFINITION.
   A person shall be designated a FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE of said village if such
person has been in the employ of the village for a period of six consecutive
months or more and who is employed for at least 30 hours per week.
(Res. passed 1-4-1973)
§ 30.051  PARTICIPATION IN THE STATE MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The village does hereby elect to participate in the State Municipal
Retirement Fund, effective January 1, 1988.
   (B)   The standard for IMRF participation shall be a position normally
requiring performance of duty for 1,000 hours per year.
   (C)   The Clerk was directed to promptly file a certified copy of this
section with the Board of Trustees of the State Municipal Retirement Fund.
(Ord. 642, passed 7-2-1987)
§ 30.052  PREVAILING WAGE RATE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Prevailing Wage Rates Ordinance (Ord. 1068) is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 1068, passed 7-5-2018)
PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
§ 30.065  TITLE, SCOPE, AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be identified and referred to as the “Personnel
Ordinance of the Village of South Jacksonville, Illinois”, and shall apply to
all employees of all departments, agencies, and offices responsible to the
Board President, except those positions specifically exempted by other
provisions of the village ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a comprehensive
system of employment that ensures that all personnel transactions affecting
village employees shall be made on the basis of merit and proficiency as
demonstrated by examination, training, education, performance based evaluation,
and other evidences of competence.
      (2)   All personnel administration shall be based on merit principles and
scientific methods of employment. Employees are in an employment at will
relationship with the village and nothing in this subchapter or its rules and
regulations is intended to change the at will relationship.
(Ord. 748, passed 12-7-1995)
§ 30.066  EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   Discrimination against any person in recruitment, examination,
appointment, training, promotion, retention, discipline, or any other aspect of
personnel administration because of political opinions or affiliations,
religion, race, color, national origin, or other non-merit factor is
prohibited. Discrimination on the basis of age, sex, or disability is
prohibited except where specific requirements constitute a bona fide
occupational qualification necessary to the performance of the essential
functions of a position.
   (B)   The Board President shall develop and implement an equal employment
opportunity plan for the village as an integral part of the personnel system.
(Ord. 748, passed 12-7-1995)
§ 30.067  PERSONNEL SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The personnel system shall be administered by the Board President or a
designee of the Board President.
   (B)   A committee of the Village Board of Trustees appointed by the Board
President shall oversee the personnel operation.
(Ord. 748, passed 12-7-1995)
§ 30.068  POSITION CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Board President shall develop a uniform classification plan for
the village governing the development of position classifications and
allocations of employees into the appropriate classification representing the
performance of duties expected of the employee. The classifications are
descriptive and not restrictive. They are to indicate generally the kinds of
activity performed by the established classification.
   (B)   The classification plan shall include an inventory of all positions in
the village service. The inventory of classifications and/or any amendments
thereto shall be submitted to the Village Board of Trustees for approval
annually in conjunction with the adoption of the village budget.
   (C)   The classification plan shall be completely reviewed at least every
three years.
(Ord. 748, passed 12-7-1995; Ord. 1086, passed 1-29-2020)
§ 30.069  PAY PLAN.
   (A)   The Board President, based upon authority of a majority of the Board
members, shall develop a uniform pay administration plan governing employees of
the village, except employees specifically exempted by the village ordinance.
   (B)   The pay plan shall assign a range of pay for each classification to be
paid to employees employed within the classification. The range of pay shall
have a minimum and a maximum amount. Employees shall not be paid an amount
greater than the assigned pay range for a classification unless specifically
authorized by the Board President under a red-circled provision.
   (C)   Pay advancements for an employee within the respective ranges of pay
shall be based on a review of the employee’s performance for the period
immediately prior to the intended adjustment and provided the Village Board of
Trustees authorizes the expenditure of funds in the annual budget. No pay
adjustment may be given to any employee who has received unsatisfactory
performance evaluation for the period immediately prior to the intended date of
adjustment.
   (D)   The pay plan may also establish bonus pay provisions which allow for
non-base building payments to employees. Such provisions may include
productivity incentives, award programs, length of service recognition, and
other special payment availability as determined by the Board President,
provided adequate funding is provided in the annual budget by the Village Board
of Trustees.
   (E)   The assignment of pay ranges to classifications shall be reviewed at
least every three years.
   (F)   The assignment of pay ranges and/or any amendments thereto shall be
submitted to the Village Board of Trustees for approval annually in conjunction
with the adoption of the village budget.
(Ord. 748, passed 12-7-1995)
§ 30.070  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS.
   (A)   The Board President shall develop a benefit plan and revisions thereto
for employees of the village which may include any of the following benefits:
sick leave; holiday leave; vacations; special leaves; medical and
hospitalization insurance; life insurance; bereavement leave; Internal Revenue
Code (being U.S.C. Title 26) authorized cafeteria benefit plans; deferred
compensation plans; educational and training programs; and other programs
commonly provided to municipal employees.
   (B)   The benefit plan and its revisions shall be provided to the Village
Board of Trustees by the Board President at least annually for review and
revision and approval in conjunction with the annual budget.
(Ord. 748, passed 12-7-1995)
§ 30.071  GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   The Board President shall develop and promulgate a grievance procedure to
provide for a review of employment decisions made by the village to be used by
village employees. The final step of the procedure shall be in the office of
the Board President. The procedure shall exempt reviews of employee discharges
from the procedure.
(Ord. 748, passed 12-7-1995)
§ 30.072  PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Board President shall develop and implement a performance
evaluation system governing all employees of the village.
   (B)   The performance evaluation system shall provide for periodic reviews
of job performance for every employee of the village, which shall be performed
at least annually. No pay adjustment shall be made unless a performance
evaluation showing satisfactory performance has been conducted in conjunction
with the intended adjustment.
   (C)   Written performance reviews shall be conducted at least three times
during an employee’s probationary period, the last of which shall be conducted
at least one week before completion of the probationary period.
   (D)   Performance reviews shall be conducted at least once during the
qualifying period after promotion, which shall be conducted no later than one
week before the end of the qualifying period is completed.
   (E)   The performance evaluation system shall provide:
      (1)   For employee involvement in development of goals and performance
expectations for the employee within the respective classification to which the
employee is assigned;
      (2)   For implementation of special review periods after an unsuccessful
evaluation is given to an employee;
      (3)   For adjustment of performance and expectations when an employee’s
job is substantially changed during the period of evaluation; and
      (4)   For involvement of the employee’s supervisors and the Board
President.
(Ord. 748, passed 12-7-1995)
§ 30.073  REGULATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   The Board President shall have the authority to regulate all of the
terms and conditions of employment of employees of the village.
   (B)   The Board President shall have authority to represent the village in
the meet and confer activities and/or in negotiations with employee
organizations.
(Ord. 748, passed 12-7-1995)
§ 30.074  APPOINTMENT TO VILLAGE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   The Board President shall make all appointments to village employment
except those reserved by other village ordinances.
   (B)   All persons who are appointed to village employment shall serve an
initial probationary period of at least 12 months. During the probationary
period, the employee shall have no right to use the grievance procedure.
   (C)   Department heads shall be appointed by the Board President and shall
serve at the pleasure of the Board President.
   (D)   Positions in village employment may be filled by the Board President
by promotion of qualified current village employees. Employees promoted shall
be required to serve a qualifying period of at least three months after
promotion to demonstrate relative competency in the position. Failure to
successfully complete the qualifying period shall result in return of the
employee to the position from which promoted providing the former position is
vacant. Failure to complete the qualifying period is not subject to the
grievance procedure.
   (E)   No person shall willfully or corruptly make any false statement,
certificate, rating, or report in regard to any test, certification, or
appointment held or made under personnel rules, policies, and procedures of the
village, or in any manner commit or attempt to commit any fraud preventing the
impartial administration of the rules, policies, and regulations made
hereunder.
(Ord. 748, passed 12-7-1995)  Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.075  EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   An employee handbook shall be developed by the Board President for
distribution to employees.
(Ord. 748, passed 12-7-1995)
§ 30.076  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Board President shall cause rules and regulations and revisions
thereto to be developed and implemented to carry out the provisions of this
subchapter. Such rules and regulations and revisions shall be provided to the
Village Board of Trustees for approval.
   (B)   The Board President shall develop such policies, procedures, and forms
as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter and its
implementing rules and regulations.
(Ord. 748, passed 12-7-1995)
ETHICAL CONDUCT, POLITICAL ACTIVITIES, SOLICITATION, AND ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS
§ 30.090  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of Presidential or
Vice-Presidential electors, but does not include activities: relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action;
relating to collective bargaining; or that are otherwise in furtherance of the
person’s official duties.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/1-
3).
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. The same meaning as that term is defined in § 3 of
the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/3).
   COMPENSATED TIME. With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
subchapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods,
personal time, compensatory time off, or any period when the employee is on a
leave of absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not
fixed, COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on
premises under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer
or employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION. The same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-1.4 of the
Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-1.4).
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the village, whether on a full-time or part-
time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction
and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work
is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. The Village of South Jacksonville.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food, and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive:
compensation for employment; service credit towards pension benefits; and
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action; relating to collective bargaining; or
that are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk under § 9-
3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-3), but only with regard to those
activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a county
clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other political event;
      (2)   Soliciting contributions including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fund-raiser, political meeting, or other political event;
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution;
      (4)   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question;
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls;
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office;
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires;
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question;
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention; and/or
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action by an officer or by an employee, or by
the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business with the officer or with an
employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated by the officer or by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
(Ord. 876, passed 5-6-2004)
§ 30.091  PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: as part
of that officer or employee’s duties; as a condition of employment; or during
any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation, or personal time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this subchapter.
   (E)   No person either in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment, or in a position the salary for which is paid
in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant-
in-aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club.
(Ord. 876, passed 5-6-2004)  Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.092  GIFT BAN; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Gift ban. Except as permitted by this section, no officer or employee,
and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as RECIPIENTS), shall intentionally solicit or
accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined herein, or which is
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall
intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this division (A).
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (A) above is not applicable to the following:
         (a)   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public;
         (b)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value;
         (c)   Any contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code
or activities associated with a fund-raising event in support of a political
organization or candidate;
         (d)   Educational materials and missions;
         (e)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
         (f)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancee;
         (g)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals;
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members;
         (h)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on a
single calendar day; provided that the food or refreshments are: consumed on
the premises from which they were purchased or prepared; or catered. For the
purposes of this division (B), CATERED means food or refreshments that are
purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any means;
         (i)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances;
         (j)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose
of this Act, INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and INTER-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity;
         (k)   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death; and
         (l)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
      (2)   Each of the exceptions listed in this division (B) are mutually
exclusive and independent of every other.
   (C)   Disposition of gifts. An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this subchapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a
gift from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount
equal to its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income
taxation under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (being U.S.C.
Title 26), as now or hereafter amended, renumbered, or succeeded.
(Ord. 876, passed 5-6-2004)  Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.093  ETHICS ADVISOR.
   (A)   The Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees shall designate an Ethics Advisor for the village. The duties of the
Ethics Advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the village unless
the position has been created as an office by the village.
   (B)   The Ethics Advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter and state ethics laws. The Ethics Advisor
shall perform such other duties as may be delegated by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 876, passed 5-6-2004)
§ 30.094  ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   In order to effectively manage the receipt of complaints concerning
violations of this policy, as soon as possible after a complaint is filed, the
Village President shall appoint a three member Ethics Commission. If the
Village President is the subject of the complaint, the Board of Trustees shall
perform this duty. Commission members may be any village resident, except that
no person shall be appointed who is related, either by blood or by marriage, up
to the degree of first cousin, to the person who is the subject of the
complaint.
   (B)   At the Commission’s first meeting, the Commissioners shall choose a
Chairperson from its number. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson or any two Commissioners. A quorum shall consist of two
Commissioners, and official action by the Commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two members. The Commission shall have the following powers
and/or duties:
      (1)   To adopt procedures and timelines to manage a complaint and
determine the complaint’s disposition;
      (2)   To investigate a complaint, conduct hearings, and receive
information pertaining to it;
      (3)   To request the assistance of an attorney;
      (4)   To issue recommendations for disciplinary actions and/or refer
violations to the village’s attorney for prosecution. The Commission shall,
however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint alleging a violation
of this policy and not upon its own prerogative;
      (5)   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the village to cooperate with the Commission during
the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with requests
by the Commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or discharge; and
      (6)   The powers and duties of the Commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this policy.
   (C)   (1)   Within three business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three business days after receipt by the Commission. The notices to the
respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time, and
place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
      (2)   (a)   Upon not less than 48 hours’ public notice, the Commission
shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the complaint is
deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this subchapter, to determine
whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by the
complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the extent
authorized by the Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120/1. The Commission shall
issue notice to the complainant and the respondent of the Commission’s ruling
on the sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to
proceed within seven business days after receiving the complaint.
         (b)   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of §
30.092 and there is a determination of probable cause, then the Commission’s
notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled within four weeks
after the complaint’s receipt. Alternatively, the Commission may elect to
notify in writing the attorney designated by the corporate authorities to
prosecute such actions and request that the complaint be adjudicated
judicially. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege a violation or
if there is no determination of probable cause, then the Commission shall send
by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to the parties of the
decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall be made public.
         (c)   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of §
30.091, then the Commission shall notify in writing the attorney designated by
the corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and shall transmit to the
attorney the complaint and all additional documents in the custody of the
Commission concerning the alleged violation.
      (3)   On the scheduled date and upon at least 48 hours’ public notice of
the meeting, the Commission shall conduct a hearing on the complaint and shall
allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and evidence. The
hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the Open Meetings
Act, being 5 ILCS 120/1.
      (4)   Within 30 days after the date the hearing or any recessed hearing
is concluded, the Commission shall either: dismiss the complaint; or issue a
recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the Village
President or other officer having authority to discipline the officer or
employee, or impose a fine upon the violator, or both. The particular findings
in the case, any recommendation for discipline, and any fine imposed shall be a
matter of public information.
      (5)   (a)   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may
file a written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven
business days after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or
imposition of a fine, or both.
         (b)   The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine.
         (c)   Within 14 days after receiving the demand, the Commission shall
conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least 48 hours’ public notice
of the hearing and allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and
evidence.
         (d)   Within seven days thereafter, the Commission shall publicly
issue a final recommendation to the alleged violator and to the Village
President or other officer having authority to discipline the officer or
employee, or impose a fine upon the violator, or both.
      (6)   If a complaint is filed during the 60 days preceding the date of
any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the Commission shall
render its decision as required under division (C)(4) above within seven days
after the complaint is filed, and during the seven days preceding that
election, the Commission shall render such decision before the date of that
election, if possible.
      (7)   A complaint alleging the violation of this must be filed within one
year after the alleged violation.
(Ord. 876, passed 5-6-2004)  Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
30.091 may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other
than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in
an amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (2)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
30.092 is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more
than $5,000.
      (3)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of this subchapter to the local enforcement
authorities, the State’s Attorney, or any other law enforcement official may be
punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a
penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in an
amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (4)   (a)   A violation of §
30.091 shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney for the village
by filing in the circuit court an information, or sworn complaint, charging
such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to the rules of
criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of the guilt of
the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
         (b)   A violation of §
30.092 may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an attorney for the
village, or, if an Ethics Commission has been created, by the Commission
through the designated administrative procedure.
      (5)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of §§
30.091 or
30.092 is subject to discipline or discharge.
   (C)   The Commission may fine any person who intentionally violates any
provision of §
30.092 in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more than $5,000. The
Commission may fine any person who knowingly files a frivolous complaint
alleging a violation of §§
30.090 through
30.094 in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more than $5,000. The
Commission may recommend any appropriate discipline up to and including
discharge.
(Ord. 876, passed 5-6-2004)
CHAPTER 31:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
31.01   National Incident Management System
   
31.02   Morgan Multi-Jurisdictional Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan adopted
§ 31.01  NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   It shall be the public policy of this village to adopt the NIMS concept of
emergency planning and unified command. It shall further be the policy of this
village to train public officials responsible for emergency management.
(Res. passed 11-4-2004)
§ 31.02  MORGAN MULTI-JURISDICTIONAL NATURAL HAZARDS MITIGATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The corporate authorities of the village adopt the Morgan Multi-
Jurisdictional Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan as the official Hazard
Mitigation Plan of the village.
   (B)   The corporate authorities of the village agree to participate in the
annual and five-year updates to the Plan.
(Res. passed 6-5-2014)
CHAPTER 32:  PUBLIC SAFETY; LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Ambulances
   
32.01   Ambulance service; rates
Police Department
   
32.15   Appointment and duties of Village Police Chief
   
32.16   Police training
   
32.17   Hiring standards
Fire Department
   
32.30   Creating and establishing a Fire Department
   
32.31   Fire call charges
   
32.32   Fire protection service to properties outside of village
   
32.33   Village Fire Chief
   
32.34   Membership in the Illinois Mutual Aid Box Alarm System
   
32.35   Selection process of fire department officers
 
   
32.99   Penalty
AMBULANCES
§ 32.01  AMBULANCE SERVICE; RATES.
   (A)   Ambulance service for the village is hereby established.
   (B)   The ambulance service shall exist and operate subject to the
following.
      (1)   Ambulance and related emergency medical services shall be provided
by members of the Village Volunteer Fire Department who will be compensated for
their time and skills by the village. The Village Volunteer Fire Department
shall oversee and be responsible for the ambulance and related emergency
medical services provided pursuant to this section.
      (2)   All members of the Village Volunteer Fire Department who provide
ambulance and related emergency medical services shall be properly licensed
and/or certified as required by the state and Passavant Area Hospital of
Jacksonville, Illinois.
      (3)   The ambulance service shall operate in compliance with the
applicable statutes of the state and the Village Volunteer Fire Department
shall, prior to providing ambulance and related emergency medical services,
obtain all necessary permits and certifications from the state.
      (4)   The ambulance and related emergency medical services shall comply
with the rules and policies established by Passavant Area Hospital of
Jacksonville, Illinois.
      (5)   The Village Volunteer Fire Department shall on a monthly basis
apprise the President and Board of Trustees of the ambulance and related
emergency medical services it provides.
      (6)   Ambulance and related emergency medical services may be provided to
individuals residing outside the corporate limits of the village.
      (7)   The corporate authorities shall fix, charge, and collect emergency
medical service fees for ambulance and related emergency medical services
rendered pursuant to this section against persons, businesses, and other
entities.
      (8)   The following schedule of rates was established for ambulance and
related emergency medical services:
 
Service                                 Rate
Advanced life support - emergency II    $725
Advanced life support - non emergency I $650
Basic life support - emergency          $625
Basic life support - non emergency      $575
Mileage                                 $12.75/mile
Oxygen                                  $25
 
(Ord. 913, passed 6-5-2008; Res. passed 4-12-2012)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15  APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF VILLAGE POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Village Police Chief shall be a conservator of the peace within
the corporate limits of the village; shall enforce or cause to be enforced all
ordinances of the village and all laws of the state.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Village Police Chief to attend all
meetings of the Board of Trustees of the village, to serve all notices in
writing when so ordered by the Village Board, and to perform all such other
duties as shall be prescribed by ordinances of said village or by any
resolution or order adopted by the Board of Trustees in said village from time
to time. He or she shall be the supervisor and administrator of the Police
Department, its men and women, and its files.
   (C)   The Village Police Chief shall possess the power and authority of a
Police Chief pursuant to the statutes of the state within the corporate limits
of the village.
(Ord. 651, passed 5-19-1988)
§ 32.16  POLICE TRAINING.
   The village hereby elects to participate in the program provided for in the
state’s Police Training Act, being 50 ILCS 705. Before an individual may
commence regular employment as a police officer, he or she must have been
certified by the State Local Governmental Law Enforcement Officers Training
Board as having successfully completed an approved training course as provided
in said Act. Such basic training must be completed by the trainee within his or
her probationary period of one year.
(Res. passed 9-21-1972)
§ 32.17  HIRING STANDARDS.
   The following rules and procedures for hiring full-time and part-time police
officers are approved and adopted by the corporate authorities of the village.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FULL-TIME POLICE OFFICER. A police officer who regularly works at least
84 hours per two-week period, occupying a position included in the adopted
annual budget that is neither specified part-time or temporary employment.
      PART-TIME POLICE OFFICER. A police officer whose hours he or she works
within a calendar year is restricted and do not, in the cumulative, exceed
1,559 hours in a calendar year while working for one or more agencies.
   (B)   The corporate authorities may employ full-time and part-time officers
from time to time as they deem necessary.
   (C)   Full-time and part-time police officers shall have all the
responsibilities and duties as specified in the general ordinances of the
village and as set forth in the statutes and regulations of the state.
   (D)   Full-time and part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance
with the state’s Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the rules and
requirements of the State Law Enforcement Training Public Safety Board.
   (E)   To be employed as a full-time or part-time police officer, a person
must be certified by the village’s Police Committee and meet the following
standards and requirements:
      (1)   Be of good character, of temperate habits, of sound health, and
physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a physical examination;
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or equivalency certificate issued by
the regional office of superintendent of schools, or a diploma based on a GED
certificate;
      (5)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver’s license;
      (6)   Have no prior felony convictions;
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the United States military must
have been honorably discharged;
      (8)   Must be eligible for employment in the United States;
      (9)   Must serve a 12-month probationary period; and
      (10)   Full-time officers must reside within the limits of the village
within six months of receiving his or her appointment to the Department, or
within a 30-minute distance of the Police Department in the village.
(Ord. 965, passed 6-7-2012)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.30  CREATING AND ESTABLISHING A FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There was created and established a Fire Department consisting of one
Fire Chief, one Clerk, and such other officers, assistant chiefs, and members
of said Fire Department as may from time to time be provided for by the
President and Board of Trustees of the village.
   (B)   The members of the Fire Department shall hold monthly meetings on the
first Monday of each month, and shall, on the first Monday of each October,
elect one Fire Chief, one Clerk and such other officers and assistant chiefs as
may have heretofore been provided for by the President and Board of Trustees,
and each such officer so elected shall hold office for one year, subject to
reelection, and until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall, upon taking office, and not later than the
regular meeting held on the first Monday of November of each year, appoint such
engine-workers, ladder-workers, hose-workers, nozzle-workers and hydrant-
workers, and make such other appointments and prescribe such duties as may be
necessary and proper in the organization and effective operation of the Fire
Department during the ensuing year. The Fire Chief shall have the control and
supervision, subject however, to the order and direction of the President and
Board of Trustees, of the Fire Department and all fire apparatus and equipment
belonging to said village. In case of fire, the Fire Chief and his or her
assistants in their order of rank, shall take command of such fire, and the
officer highest in rank shall take command of the Fire Department and direct
the management thereof for the suppression of the fire and in the best manner
possible. When it may be necessary for the protection of other property to
prevent the spread of any fire, the officer in command may cause buildings to
be removed, torn down, or destroyed in the best manner possible.
   (D)   The Clerk of the Fire Department shall keep a record of all meetings
of the Fire Department and the attendance of the members thereof, the record of
all fires and the attendance of the members at such fires, and during the last
week of April of each year, file with the Village Clerk a full report of such
attendance and fires, which said report shall be made by the Clerk under oath.
The Clerk shall also keep such other record, make such reports, and keep and
furnish statistics as may be required of him or her by law. He or she shall, at
the expiration of his or her term of office, surrender and deliver to his or
her successor in office, all books and records in his or her hands as such
clerk.
   (E)   It shall be the function and duty of the Fire Department, and every
member thereof, to extinguish accidental or destructive fires, to prevent the
occurrence or spread of fires, and to enforce all ordinances relating to the
occurrence or spread of such fires.
   (F)   (1)   The headquarters of said Department shall be a the regular
meeting place of the Board of Trustees, or such other place as said President
and Board of Trustees may determine by appropriate resolution.
      (2)   The Fire Department are to enact bylaws to regulate the conduct of
its business and activities.
   (G)   The Fire Chief is hereby vested with authority to suspend any
firefighter for insubordination or for neglect of duty. All such suspensions
shall be reported to the Board of Trustees at its next meeting by the said Fire
Chief, said Trustees shall thereupon discharge or reinstate said firefighter as
to them may seem best. Resignations of the Fire Chief or of the firefighter
must be made in writing and presented to the Board of Trustees for its action
thereon.
   (H)   The Fire Chief and firefighter shall receive such compensation as may
be from time to time fixed by the President and Board of Trustees.
   (I)   No person shall be disqualified to act as Fire Chief, or as a
firefighter, by reason of being a Trustee or other officer of said village.
   (J)   It shall be the duty of all officers of the law having jurisdiction in
said village to enforce the provisions of this section and to arrest on view
any person who shall be found violating any of the provisions of this section,
or who shall hinder, resist, or refuse to obey any officer of the Fire
Department in a discharge of his or her duty.
(Ord. 190, passed 9-6-1950; Ord. 196, passed 1-3-1951; Ord. 1073, passed 12-
62018)  Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.31  FIRE CALL CHARGES.
   Henceforth, there shall be paid to the village the sum of $500 for each fire
call made by the Village Fire Department outside of the municipal limits, the
same to be paid by those persons requesting or accepting such fire call service
and the Village Clerk and Fire Department officers may adopt such rules and
regulations with regard to securing payment of the foregoing charge as they may
deem reasonable and proper under the circumstances and may require that proof
of insurance affording coverage for such fire call service be filed with the
Village Clerk as a prerequisite for furnishing such fire call service.
(Ord. 394, passed 5-6-1971)
§ 32.32  FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE TO PROPERTIES OUTSIDE OF VILLAGE.
   (A)   The village is hereby authorized to enter into contracts with owners
or occupants of commercial, industrial, residential, and farm property which
lies outside the corporate limits of the village to furnish fire protection
services, on the following terms and conditions.
      (1)   Those owners or occupants desiring fire protection service pursuant
to this section shall pay by May 1 of each year an annual registration fee of
$75.
      (2)   The entering into of such contracts for furnishing fire protection
services shall not be mandatory on the part of the village, and each request
for such services shall be considered individually and approved or denied for
such reasons as may be deemed appropriate in the sole discretion of the village
and its President, Trustees, employees, and agents.
      (3)   Under the terms of such contracts, the village shall not be
obligated to service fires outside the village limits when to do such will
unduly endanger property within the village limits and whether servicing a fire
will unduly endanger said property shall be solely and exclusively in the
discretion and judgment of the village and its President, Trustees, employees,
and agents. At no time shall the village, for the purpose of fighting any one
fire pursuant to the provisions of this section, supply more than one tanker,
one pumper, and seven firefighters, it being understood that the number of
firefighters present at the scene is always subject to their availability for
firefighting service from day to day.
      (4)   The village is hereby authorized to negotiate for contracts to
furnish fire protection services for other governmental agencies and major
industrial plants outside the village limits upon such terms and conditions as
may be mutually agreeable.
   (B)   There shall be paid to the village the sum of $500 for each fire call
made by the Village Fire Department outside of the corporate limits, the same
to be paid by those persons requesting or accepting such fire call service and
the Village Clerk and Fire Department officers may adopt such rules and
regulations with regard to providing information as to the improvements to be
served and the location of them and with regard to securing payment of the
foregoing charge as they may deem reasonable and proper under the circumstances
and may require that proof of insurance affording coverage for such fire call
service be filed with the Village Clerk as a prerequisite for furnishing such
fire call service.
   (C)   The Fire Department of the village shall provide firefighting and fire
protection services outside the village limits only to those owners or
occupants who have registered with the village for such service and otherwise
complied with the terms and provisions of this section.
   (D)   Services pursuant to this section shall commence on May 1, 1986 or as
soon thereafter as the Fire Chief determines that the Department is prepared to
render such services.
(Ord. 630, passed 3-20-1986; Ord. 957, passed 12-1-2011)
§ 32.33  VILLAGE FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The President, with the consent of the Board of Trustees, shall
appoint a Village Fire Chief to hold office at the pleasure of the President
and the Board of Trustees. The Village Fire Chief may be removed or dismissed
without cause by the President, with the consent of the Board of Trustees of
the village, at any time after his or her appointment. A new appointment shall
be made by the President and Board of Trustees in a timely manner.
   (B)   The Village Fire Chief shall enforce or cause to be enforced all
ordinances of the village and all laws of the state.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Village Fire Chief to attend all meetings
of the Board of Trustees of the village, to serve all notices in writing when
so ordered by the Village Board, and to perform all such other duties as shall
be prescribed by ordinances of said village or by any resolution or order
adopted by the Board of Trustees in said village from time to time. He or she
shall be the supervisor and administrator of the Fire Department, its men and
women, and its files.
   (D)   The Village Fire Chief shall possess the power and authority of a Fire
Chief pursuant to the statutes of the state within the corporate limits of the
village.
(Ord. 680, passed 6-21-1990)
§ 32.34  MEMBERSHIP IN THE ILLINOIS MUTUAL AID BOX ALARM SYSTEM.
   (A)   Subject to the limitations set out below, the village will financially
compensate volunteer personnel of the Department when such personnel are called
to service in any federally authorized interstate deployment, pursuant to the
Emergency Management Assistance Compact (EMAC), or in any statewide intrastate
deployment authorized by the State Emergency Operations Center, in compliance
with and pursuant to the state’s Statewide Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The compensation paid by the village will be an amount equal to the
employee’s civilian career pay per hour (if the person is ordinarily and
customarily paid on an hourly basis, to a maximum reimbursed amount of 40 hours
per week), or an amount equal to the person’s weekly salary (if the person is
ordinarily and customarily paid on a salary basis), prorated to the amount of
time the employee actually is absent from his or her employment as a result of
the deployment.
   (C)   The compensation paid by the village will be adjusted for amounts
required to be withheld from the employee’s compensation by federal and state
law.
   (D)   At the village’s discretion, the compensation due an employee pursuant
to this section may be paid by the village reimbursing the employee’s civilian
career employer for the amount of time the employee missed from work, to allow
the employee’s civilian career employer to pay the employee in the same manner
as the employee would typically be paid.
   (E)   The compensation to be paid by the village will be limited to the
compensation based on the amount of time that the employee is actually absent
from his or her civilian career employment as a result of the deployment.
   (F)   Unless the village shall later agree otherwise, the maximum amount of
compensation to be paid to any employee in any single deployment shall be
limited to compensation for eight hours of work missed (if the person is
ordinarily and customarily paid on an hourly basis), or an amount equal to 40
hours per week (if the person is ordinarily and customarily paid on a salary
basis).
   (G)   The employee requesting compensation shall keep records of the time
involved (and mileage requested) in the deployment, which records shall be
verified by the command personnel of the deployment.
   (H)   No compensation shall be paid by the village to an employee who is
deployed unless that employee actually misses work for a civilian career
employer for which the employee would otherwise be compensated. No compensation
shall be paid in an amount greater than the amount of salary or wages actually
lost by an employee as a result of the deployment.
   (I)   In the event that a deployed employee is authorized by the Fire Chief
to use a personal vehicle to travel to and from the scene of the deployment,
the village shall reimburse the employee at the then current IRS mileage rate.
(Res. 5/2014, passed 5-1-2014)
§ 32.35  SELECTION PROCESS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   Other than the specific requirements described herein, nothing in this
section should be interpreted in a manner that would amend any prior ordinance
as they relate to the employment of a Fire Chief.
   (B)   The Village Fire Department shall have three officers: a First
Assistant Chief, a Second Assistant Chief, and a Secretary. There shall be no
Treasurer within the Fire Department. Any and all sections of any and all prior
ordinances relating to a Fire Department Treasurer shall be vacated as they
relate to the existence of, duties of and/or establishment of a Fire Department
Treasurer. Otherwise, the prior ordinances shall remain in full force and
effect except as amended herein.
   (C)   The officers (First Assistant Chief, Second Assistant Chief, and
Secretary) shall be approved by the Board of Trustees upon the appointment by
the Village President after and based on the recommendation of the Fire Chief
and the results of an election held by Fire Department members. The term of
each officer shall be two years, and the terms shall be staggered so that the
appointments shall not occur within the same year. The initial terms shall be
as follows: First Assistant Chief (two years); Second Assistant Chief (one
year); and Secretary (two years). Nothing should prevent reappointment of any
officer so long as the officer is re-appointed by the same process described
above.
   (D)   The Fire Chief’s recommendation (described in division (C) above)
shall be determined by her or his own review of the nominees and by an election
by the members of the Fire Department. The Fire Chief’s recommendation is not
bound by the results of the election. During the election, each member of the
Fire Department (regardless of rank or position) shall receive one vote for
each open office. When a vacancy occurs or is set to occur based on the term of
the office described in division (C), the Fire Chief shall call an election for
the office with 14 days’ written notice to all members of the Fire Department
and by posting notice of the election in the Fire Department. Any nominations
shall be made in writing and posted in the Fire Department no later than seven
days before the election. The election shall take place by secret ballot, and a
Village Trustee (who is not a member of the Fire Department) shall be present
at the time the ballots are cast to tally the ballots with the Fire Chief. The
Fire Chief and present Department officers may, at any time, create a proposed
list of procedures to effectuate an efficient election process for approval by
the Village President and Board, but the procedures cannot deviate from the
basic structure described herein.
(Ord. 1071, passed 11-1-2018; Ord. 1073, passed 12-6-2018)
§ 32.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any firefighter in attendance at a fire who shall neglect or
refuses to obey the orders of the officer in command of such fires, shall upon
conviction be fined $500.
      (2)   Whoever shall use any fire engine, hose cart, or any other
apparatus belonging to said village, for any private purpose, other than the
extinguishment of fires, or whoever shall remove the same, or any part thereof,
from its place of keeping, or having the control thereof, shall permit such
engine, hose cart, or other apparatus to be used for any private purposes other
than aforesaid, shall upon conviction be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 190, passed 9-6-1950; Ord. 1086, passed 1-29-2020)
CHAPTER 33:  FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Accounts
   
33.002   Purchases by village employees
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
   
33.010   Definitions
   
33.011   Registration of telecommunications providers
   
33.012   Municipal telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
   
33.013   Collection, enforcement, and administration of fee
   
33.014   Compliance with other laws
   
33.015   Existing franchises and licenses
   
33.016   Waiver and fee implementation
Tax Rights and Responsibilities
   
33.030   Title
   
33.031   Scope
   
33.032   Definitions
   
33.033   Notices
   
33.034   Late payment
   
33.035   Payment
   
33.036   Certain credits and refunds
   
33.037   Audit procedure
   
33.038   Appeal
   
33.039   Hearing
   
33.040   Interest
   
33.041   Abatement
   
33.042   Installment contracts
   
33.043   Statute of limitations
   
33.044   Voluntary disclosure
   
33.045   Publication of tax ordinances
   
33.046   Internal review procedures
Tax Increment Financing Interested Parties Register
   
33.060   Definitions
   
33.061   Establishment of registry
   
33.062   Maintenance of registry
   
33.063   Registration by residents
   
33.064   Registration by organizations
   
33.065   Determination of eligibility
   
33.066   Renewal and termination
   
33.067   Amendment to registration
   
33.068   Registries available for public inspection
   
33.069   Notices to be sent to interested parties
   
33.070   Non-interference
   
33.071   Amendment of registration rules
   
33.072   Boundary map
   
33.073   Interested parties registration form
   
33.074   Interested parties registry
 
   
33.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001  ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Public Benefit and Public Building Accounts were abolished
and the moneys in said accounts were transferred to the Streets and Alleys
Account.
      (2)   The Incidentals Account and the Books and Stationery Account were
consolidated into one account to be known as the “Incidentals Account”.
      (3)   There was transferred from the Incidentals Account to the Streets
and Alleys Account the sum of $105.81.
      (4)   The Legal Advise Account and the Court Costs Account were
consolidated into one account to be known as the “Legal Expense Account” and
there was transferred from said account to the Streets and Alleys Account the
sum of $200.
      (5)   There was transferred from the Fire Protection Account to the
Streets and Alleys Account the sum of $300.
      (6)   The Public Boulevard Lighting Account was abolished.
   (B)   (1)   The National Boulevard Bank of Chicago was designated as one of
the depositories of the funds of this municipality and the President or any
other officers of this municipality are hereby authorized to open an account or
accounts with said bank and to make such arrangements for the conduct thereof
as they or any of them shall deem proper and the officers of this municipality
are hereby authorized to endorse in the name of this municipality for the
purpose of deposit and collection in and with said bank checks, drafts, notes
and any other obligations belonging to or coming into the possession of this
municipality; and it is further resolved that endorsement for deposit and
collection may be by the written or stamped endorsement of this municipality
without designation of the party making the endorsement.
      (2)   Said bank was hereby authorized to pay out the funds of this
municipality on deposit with it in said account or accounts from time to time
upon checks drawn upon said bank and signed in the name of this municipality by
the joint signatures of the President of said municipality, and the Clerk of
said municipality without inquiring as to the circumstances of the issuance of
said checks or as to the disposition of their proceeds and said officers are
jointly authorized to endorse for negotiation, negotiate, and receive the
proceeds of any negotiable instruments or orders for the payment of money
payable to or belonging to or in possession of this municipality and to sell,
transfer, and endorse for sale or for transfer any and all securities,
registered bonds, stock certificates, interim, participation, and other
certificates. Each of the aforementioned officers is hereby authorized without
the concurrence of any officer to act for this municipality in the transaction
of all other business for its account with said bank.
      (3)   The Clerk or any other officer of this municipality is authorized
to certify to said bank a copy of this resolution and the names and signatures
of this municipality’s officers or employees thereby authorized to act in the
premises, and said bank is hereby authorized to rely upon such certificate
until formally advised by a like certificate of any changes therein, and is
authorized to rely on any such additional certificates.
      (4)   This division (B) shall be in full force and effect and binding
upon this municipality until it shall have been rescinded, and written notice
of such recision under the corporate seal shall have been delivered to said
bank.
   (C)   Said village and its authorized representatives are hereby authorized
to make arrangements for the acquisition of a night depository bag for said
Water and Sewer Department.
   (D)   (1)   There be and hereby is established a bank account at The Farmers
State Bank and Trust Company, Jacksonville, Illinois, to be known as “Village
of South Jacksonville Pay-roll Account” and all salaries of all employees of
the village shall be paid out of said account and there shall be deposited to
said account funds from the various village departments and accounts
responsible for payment of said salaries sufficient to meet their respective
salary obligations; that requests for deposit to said account shall be made at
such times as may be determined appropriate by the Village Clerk.
      (2)   Funds may be withdrawn from said account by check signed by any two
of the following village officials: Village President; Village Clerk; Deputy
Clerk; and Village Treasurer.
   (E)   (1)   The Treasurer of the village be and hereby is authorized to open
a savings account at The Farmers State Bank and Trust Company, Jacksonville,
Illinois, the same to be in the name of said village and known as “Water and
Sewer Bond Reserve Account”.
      (2)   The said Treasurer shall deposit to said account an opening deposit
of $8,000.
      (3)   Withdrawals from said account may be made by any two of the
following persons: President of the Board; Clerk; and Chairperson of the Water
and Sewer Department. Such persons are hereby authorized to execute such
signature cards and other documents as may be necessary to open said account.
(Ord. 139, passed 10-1-1941; Res. passed 7-18-1968; Res. passed 12-5-1968; Res.
passed 9-2-1971; Res. passed 3-1-1973)
§ 33.002  PURCHASES BY VILLAGE EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   On and after the passage date of this section any head of a department
of the village and any employee authorized by a department head shall be
authorized to purchase for and in behalf of the village material, equipment,
and supplies at a cost not to exceed the maximum cost per purchase designated
by the Trustee who is chairperson of the committee having responsibility for
the department for which the purchase is being made. No purchase order shall be
required for purchases made pursuant to this division (A).
   (B)   Each committee chairperson shall designate in writing the maximum cost
of each purchase authorized by the preceding section and said designation shall
be in writing, signed by the committee chairperson, and delivered to each
employee as the chairperson may deem appropriate and each employee shall sign a
copy acknowledging receipt of the notice establishing the maximum cost of each
purchase.
   (C)   Any purchases to be made at a cost in excess of the maximum cost
provided for above shall be made only after receiving prior approval of the
committee chairperson having jurisdiction of the matter by a purchase order or
after approval of the purchase by the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Any person making a purchase in any amount for or in behalf of the
village shall sign his or her signature on an invoice at the time of purchase.
(Ord. 573, passed 1-21-1982)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
§ 33.010  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS CHARGES. The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act
or privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the village,
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services, and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS CHARGES for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the village, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
the village, and charges for that portion of the interstate, inter-office
channel provided within the village. However, GROSS CHARGES shall not include:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
under: the fee imposed by this section; additional charges added to a
purchaser’s bill under §§ 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, 220 ILCS
5/9-221 or 9-222; the tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act, 35
ILCS 630/1 et seq.; 911 surcharges; or the tax imposed by § 4251 of the
Internal Revenue Code;
      (2)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside the
village;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified under 220 ILCS 5/9-222.1
of the Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the
period of time specified by the village;
      (6)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
      (7)   Bad debts (BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which GROSS CHARGES are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      (8)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telecommunications
devices; or
      (9)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided to the village.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any municipal street, alley, water, or public right-of-
way dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility
easements wherein the village has acquired the right and authority to locate or
permit the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any real or personal village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE.RETAILER MAINTAINING
A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE, or any like term, means and includes any
retailer having or maintaining within the state, directly or by a subsidiary,
an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales office,
warehouse, or other place of business, or any agent or other representative
operating within this state under the authority of the retailer or its
subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or other
representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether such
retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for its use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems, and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of the
customer’s primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the
location in the state where bills are sent.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall also include WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS as
hereinafter defined. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services
in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
      (2)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications
by a telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the
service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates
or terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer access charges, right of
access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities, and all
TELECOMMUNICATIONS resold in the subsequent provision and used as a component
of, or integrated into, end-to-end TELECOMMUNICATIONS service shall not be
included in gross charges as sales for resale.
      (3)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of cable
services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of
1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the village
through an open video system as defined in the rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. §§ 76.1550 et seq.) as now or hereafter
amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER.
      (1)   Any telecommunications retailer; and
      (2)   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates, or controls equipment in the public right-of-way that is used
or designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER or RETAILER or CARRIER. Includes every person
engaged in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail as
defined in this section. The village may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any RETAILER not
maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction of
the village, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such RETAILER to pay the
fee upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the village.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in § 704(C) of the Telecommunications Act
of 1996 (Pub. Law No. 104-104), 42 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7), as now or hereafter
amended, including all commercial mobile radio services and paging services.
(Ord. 795, passed 6-18-1998)
§ 33.011  REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Every telecommunications provider as defined by this subchapter shall
register within the village within 30 days after the effective date of this
subchapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on a
form to be provided by the village, provided, however, that any
telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to §
33.013(C) shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the village
pursuant to division (A) above has an affirmative duty to submit an amended
registration form or current return as required §
33.013(C), as the case may be, to the village within 30 days from the date of
the occurrence of any changes in the information provided by the
telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent return on
file with the village.
(Ord. 795, passed 6-18-1998)  Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.012  MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE.
   (A)   A village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of 1% of all gross
charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service addresses within
the village for telecommunications originating or received in the village.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this subchapter, the village infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights-of-way within the village by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this subchapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
   (C)   The village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this section shall be collected, enforced, and administered as
set forth in §
33.013.
(Ord. 795, passed 6-18-1998)
§ 33.013  COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATION OF FEE.
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer’s service address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the Village Clerk, the infrastructure
maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the
village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in
which a bill is issued to the customer, provided, however, that the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed 2% of the
village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse itself for
expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the village shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the Village Clerk, which
shall contain such information as the Village Clerk may reasonably require.
   (D)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant
to this subchapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by
such telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the village. The charge imposed under division
(A) above by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this subchapter shall
constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
   (E)   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee
has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether
as a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this subchapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the
erroneous payment; provided, however, the Village Clerk may request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide written substantiation for such
credit. However, no claim for such credit may be made more than three years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless: the credit is used only to
offset a claim of underpayment made by the village within the applicable
statutory period of limitations; and the credit derives from an overpayment
made by the same telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory
period of limitations.
   (F)   Amounts paid under this subchapter by telecommunications retailers
shall not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as
described immediately below:
      (1)   Gross charges for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax
Act, 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.;
      (2)   Gross receipts for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2 of the State Municipal Code;
      (3)   Gross charges for purposes of the municipal telecommunications tax
as prescribed in 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq. of the State Municipal Code; and
      (4)   Gross revenue for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in the Public Utilities Act, 220 ILCS 5/2-202.
   (G)   The village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the
books and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this
subchapter to determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly
accounted to the village for the village infrastructure maintenance fee. Any
underpayment of the amount of the village infrastructure maintenance fee due to
the village by the telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the village
plus 5% of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus
any costs incurred by the village in conducting the audit, in an amount not to
exceed 5% of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit. Said
sum shall be paid to the village within 21 days after the date of issuance of
an invoice for same.
   (H)   The Village Clerk, or his or her designee, may promulgate such further
or additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter, consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to
time and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered
pursuant to §
33.011 of such regulations.
(Ord. 795, passed 6-18-1998)
§ 33.014  COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall excuse any person or entity from
obligations imposed under any law, including but not limited to:
   (A)   Generally applicable taxes;
   (B)   Standards for construction on, over, under or within, use of or repair
of the public rights-of-way, including standards relating to freestanding
towers and other structures upon the public rights-of-way, as provided;
   (C)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under or within,
use of or repair of the public rights-of-way; and
   (D)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this code concerning
uses or structures not located on, over, or within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 795, passed 6-18-1998)  Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.015  EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES.
   Any franchise, license, or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the village entered into before the effective date of this
subchapter regarding the use of public rights-of-way shall remain valid
according to and for their stated terms except for any fees, charges, or other
compensation to the extent waived.
(Ord. 795, passed 6-18-1998)
§ 33.016  WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The village hereby waives all fees, charges, and other compensation
that may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the village by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing village franchise,
license, or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the
time the village imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee.
This waiver shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure
maintenance fee provided for in this subchapter is subject to being lawfully
imposed on the telecommunications retailer and collected by the
telecommunications retailer from the customer.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail,
return receipt requested to each telecommunications retailer with whom the
village has a franchise.
   (C)   The village infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this
subchapter shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not
less than 90 days after the village provides written notice by certified mail
to each telecommunications retailer with whom the village has an existing
franchise, license, or similar agreement that the village waives all
compensation under such existing franchise, license, or similar agreement
during such time as the fee is subject to being lawfully imposed and collected
by the retailer and remitted to the village. The infrastructure maintenance fee
shall apply to gross charges billed on or after the effective date as
established in the preceding sentence.
(Ord. 795, passed 6-18-1998)
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 33.030  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance” and may be referred
to herein as “this subchapter”.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.031  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the village’s procedures in
connection with all of the village’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.032  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, being 50 ILCS 45.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The village’s President and Board of Trustees.
   HEARING OFFICER. An administrative individual appointed by the Village
President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees to conduct
hearings and to issue final determinations regarding the collection of all
locally imposed and administered taxes.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code, being 35 ILCS 200, or fees collected by the village other
than infrastructure maintenance fees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Treasurer, is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees, or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR to act in the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR’S stead. The
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice, or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of South Jacksonville, Illinois.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.033  NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit, or other scheduled act of
the Local Tax Administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax Administrator.
   (C)   The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax Administrator as follows:
first class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the persons
concerned at the persons last known addresses; or personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.034  LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance, or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the village on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village with adequate postage prepaid.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.035  PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first to the tax due for the applicable period; second to the
interest due for the applicable period; and third to the penalty for the
applicable period.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.036  CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties paid in error shall be as follows.
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest, and penalties overpaid,
and, as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid, provided, however,
that there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer
owes any moneys to the village.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the Local Tax Administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
grant the claim; or deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a
statement as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.037  AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information: the tax;
the time period of the audit; and a brief description of the books and records
to be made available for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the Local
Tax Administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption, or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the Local
Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the Tax
Administrator’s determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer’s tax
liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
village’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.038  APPEAL.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund,
and collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax
Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit, or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.039  HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
33.038, the Local Tax Administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal. The taxpayer, however, may request that a hearing officer conduct the
hearing rather than the Local Tax Administrator.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing the Local Tax Administrator/hearing officer shall
preside and shall hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax
determination, audit, or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to
judicial proceedings shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator/hearing
officer shall make a written determination on the basis of the evidence
presented at the hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with
a copy of the written decision.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.040  INTEREST.
   The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be assessed on a
late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be 5%, based on a year
of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.041  ABATEMENT.
   The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty, or failure to file penalty if the
Local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.042  INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer
for the payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance.
   (B)   The Local Tax Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so
entered unless the taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing.
   (C)   Upon written notice by the Local Tax Administrator that the payment is
30 days delinquent, the taxpayer shall have 14 working days to cure any
delinquency.
   (D)   If the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the 14-day period
or fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract
with the Local Tax Administrator, the installment contract shall be cancelled
without further notice to the taxpayer.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.043  STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   The village, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (A)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the village,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed. No statute of limitations shall apply if a
fraudulent tax return was filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.044  VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period before
the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax, along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.045  PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the Village
Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
§ 33.046  INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect, if the lien is determined to be
improper, the Local Tax Administrator shall: timely remove the lien at the
village’s expense; correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and correct any public
disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)   
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTER
§ 33.060  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act, 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
   CLERK. The Village Clerk.
   INTERESTED PARTY(IES). Any organization(s) active within the village, any
resident(s) of the village, and any other entity or person otherwise entitled
under the Act to register in the interested parties registry who has registered
in such registry and whose registration has not been terminated in accordance
with these registration rules.
   REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA. A REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA that is intended to
qualify or that has previously or subsequently qualified as a REDEVELOPMENT
PROJECT AREA under the Act, and is subject to the interested parties registry
requirements of the Act.
   REGISTRATION FORM. The form appended to these registration rules, or such
revised form as may be approved by the department consistent with the
requirements of the Act.
   REGISTRY or REGISTRIES. Each interested parties registry, and all such
registries, collectively, established by the village pursuant to § 11-74.4-4.2
of the Act for a redevelopment project area.
   VILLAGE. The Village of South Jacksonville, an Illinois Municipal
Corporation.
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.061  ESTABLISHMENT OF REGISTRY.
   The village shall establish a separate interested parties registry for each
redevelopment project area, whether existing as of the date of the adoption of
these rules or hereafter established.
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.062  MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY.
   The registries shall be maintained by the Clerk, which has a principal
business office located at 301 Dewey Drive, Village Hall, South Jacksonville,
Illinois. The village may transfer the responsibility for maintaining the
registries to such other department provided that the village: gives prior
written notice to all interested parties not less than 30 days prior to such
transfer; and publishes notice of such transfer in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village.
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.063  REGISTRATION BY RESIDENTS.
   An individual seeking to register as an interested party with respect to a
redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration form to the
Clerk. Such individual must also submit a copy of a current driver’s license,
lease, utility bill, or such other evidence as may be acceptable to the Clerk
to establish the individual’s current residency.
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.064  REGISTRATION BY ORGANIZATIONS.
   An organization seeking to register as an interested party with respect to a
redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration form to the
Clerk. Such organization must also submit a copy of a one-page statement
describing the organization’s current operations in the village.
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.065  DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY.
   All individuals and organizations whose registration form and supporting
documentation complies with these registration rules shall be registered in the
applicable registry within ten business days of the Clerk’s receipt of all such
documents. The Clerk shall provide written notice to the registrant confirming
such registration. Upon registration, interested parties shall be entitled to
receive all notices and documents required to be delivered under these rules or
as otherwise required under the Act with respect to the applicable
redevelopment project area. If the Clerk determines that a registrant’s
registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does not
comply with these rules, the Clerk shall give written notice to the registrant
specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to correct any
defects and resubmit a new registration form and supporting documentation.
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.066  RENEWAL AND TERMINATION.
   An interested party’s registration shall remain effective for a period of
three years. At any time after such three-year period, the Clerk may provide
written notice by regular mail to the interested party stating that such
registration shall terminate unless the interested party renews such
registration within 30 days of the Clerk’s mailing of written notice. To renew
such registration, the interested party shall, within such 30-day period,
complete and submit the same registration form and supporting documentation
then required of initial registrants in order to permit the Clerk to confirm
such person’s residency or such organization’s operations in the village. The
registration of all individuals and organizations whose registration form and
supporting documentation is submitted in a timely manner and complies with
these regulation rules shall be reviewed for an additional, consecutive three-
year period. If the Clerk determines that a registrant’s renewal registration
form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does not comply with
these registration rules, the Clerk shall give written notice to the registrant
at the address specified in the renewal registration form submitted by such
registrant, specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to
correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and supporting
documentation within 30 days of receipt of the Clerk’s notice. If all defects
are not corrected within 30 days or the interested party’s receipt of the
Clerk’s notice, the interested party’s registration shall be terminated. Any
interested party whose registration is terminated shall be entitled to register
again as if a first-time registrant.
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.067  AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION.
   An interested party may amend its registration by giving written notice to
the Clerk by certified mail of any of the following: a change in address for
notice purposes; in the case of organizations, a change in the name of the
contact person; and a termination of registration. Upon receipt of such notice,
the Clerk shall revise the applicable registry accordingly.
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.068  REGISTRIES AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   Each registry shall be available for public inspection during normal village
business hours. The registry shall include the name, address, and telephone
number of each interested person and, for organizations, the name and phone
number of a designated contact person.
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.069  NOTICES TO BE SENT TO INTERESTED PARTIES.
   Interested parties shall be sent the following notices and any other notices
required under the Act with respect to the applicable redevelopment project
area: pursuant to § 74.4-5(a) of the Act, notice of the availability of a
proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including how to obtain
this information; such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period
of time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing the public hearing for the
proposed redevelopment plan; pursuant to § 74.4-5(a) of the Act, notice of
changes to proposed redevelopment plans that do not: add additional parcels of
property to the proposed redevelopment project area; substantially affect the
general land uses proposed in the redevelopment plan; substantially change the
nature of or extend the life of the redevelopment project; or increase the
number of low or very low income households to be displaced from the
redevelopment project area, provided that measured from the time of creation of
the redevelopment project area the total displacement of the households will
exceed ten; such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten days following
the village’s adoption by ordinance of such changes; pursuant to § 74.4-5(c) of
the Act, notice of amendments to previously approved redevelopment plans that
do not: add additional parcels of property to the redevelopment project area;
substantially affect the general land uses in the redevelopment plan;
substantially change the nature of the redevelopment project; increase the
total estimated redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan
by more than 5% after adjustment for inflation from the date the plan was
adopted; add additional redevelopment project costs to the itemized list of
redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan; or increase the
number of low or very low income households to be displaced from the
redevelopment project area, provided that measured from the time of creation of
the redevelopment project area the total displacement of households will exceed
ten; such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten days following the
village’s adoption by ordinance of any such amendment; pursuant to § 74.4-5(d)
(9) of the Act, for redevelopment plans or projects that would result in the
displacement of residents from ten or more inhabited residential units or that
contain 75 or more inhabited residential units, notice of the availability of
the certified audit report described in § 74.4-5(d)(9), including how to obtain
the certified audit report; such notice shall be sent by mail within a
reasonable period of time after completion of the certified audit report; and
pursuant to § 74.4-6(e) of the Act, notice of the preliminary public meeting
required under the Act for a proposed redevelopment project area that will
result in the displacement of ten or more inhabited residential units or which
will contain 75 or more inhabited residential units, such notice shall be sent
by certified mail not less than 15 days before the date of such preliminary
public meeting.
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.070  NON-INTERFERENCE.
   These registration rules shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise
interfere with the ability of eligible organizations and individuals to
register for receipt of information to which they are entitled under the Act.
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.071  AMENDMENT OF REGISTRATION RULES.
   These registration rules may be amended by the Village Board, subject to and
consistent with the requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.072  BOUNDARY MAP.
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.073  INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRATION FORM.
VILLAGE OF SOUTH JACKSONVILLE
MORGAN COUNTY, ILLINOIS
 
INTERESTED PARTIES
REGISTRATION FORM
 
Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-4.2 the undersigned
individual or organization states that the following is the correct name of the
individual and/or organization and contact person and phone number requested to
be listed in the village’s interested parties registry:
 
INDIVIDUAL
               
Name                                Address                    
_________________________           _________________________  
                                    _________________________ Zip: ____________
Phone:                                                        
(      )        -        
                                                             
                                   ORGANIZATION               
                                                             
_________________________           _________________________  
Organization                        _________________________ Zip: ____________
                                                             
Contact Person:                                               
_________________________
Phone:                                                        
(      )        -        
                                                             
 
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.074  INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY.
VILLAGE OF SOUTH JACKSONVILLE
MORGAN COUNTY, ILLINOIS
 
 
INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY
 
The following individual and organizations have registered with the village
under rules adopted by the village pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-74.4-4.2:
 
INDIVIDUAL
 
 
  Name                             Address                       
1. ____________________________     ____________________________  
  Phone: (      )        -  ____________________________ Zip:
                                                                 __________
2. ____________________________     ____________________________  
  Phone: (      )        -  ____________________________ Zip:
                                                                 __________
3. ____________________________     ____________________________  
  Phone: (      )        -  ____________________________ Zip:
                                                                 __________
4. ____________________________     ____________________________  
  Phone: (      )        -  ____________________________ Zip:
                                                                 __________
5. ____________________________     ____________________________  
  Phone: (      )        -  ____________________________ Zip:
                                                                 __________
6. ____________________________     ____________________________  
  Phone: (      )        -  ____________________________ Zip:
                                                                 __________
7. ____________________________     ____________________________  
  Phone: (      )        -  ____________________________ Zip:
                                                                 __________
ORGANIZATIONS
   ____________________________     ____________________________  
1. Organization                     ____________________________ Zip:
                                                                 __________
  Contact Person:                  Phone:                        
   ____________________________     ____________________________
   ____________________________     ____________________________  
2.                                 ____________________________ Zip:
   Organization                                                  __________
  Contact Person:                  Phone:                        
   ____________________________     ____________________________
   ____________________________     ____________________________  
3. Organization                     ____________________________ Zip:
                                                                 __________
  Contact Person:                  Phone:                        
   ____________________________     ____________________________
   ____________________________     ____________________________  
4. Organization                     ____________________________ Zip:
                                                                 __________
  Contact Person:                  Phone:                        
   ____________________________     ____________________________
   ____________________________     ____________________________  
5. Organization                     ____________________________ Zip:
                                                                 __________
  Contact Person:                  Phone:                        
   ____________________________     ____________________________
   ____________________________     ____________________________  
6. Organization                     ____________________________ Zip:
                                                                 __________
  Contact Person:                  Phone:                        
   ____________________________     ____________________________
   ____________________________     ____________________________  
7. Organization                     ____________________________ Zip:
                                                                 __________
  Contact Person:                  Phone:                        
   ____________________________     ____________________________
                                                               
 
(Ord. 814, passed 5-5-2000)
§ 33.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of §§
33.010 through
33.016 shall be subject to fine in accordance with the general penalty
provisions of the village’s municipal code.
      (2)   Nothing in §§
33.010 through
33.016 shall be construed as limiting any additional or further remedies that
the village may have for enforcement of §§
33.010 through
33.016.
   (C)   Pursuant to §§
33.030 through
33.045, if a tax return is not filed within the time and manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance, a late filing penalty of 5% of the amount of tax
required to be shown as due on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment
penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the
time or manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the
village issuing notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a
failure to file penalty shall be assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for
the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be filed.
A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file penalty
is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
(Ord. 795, passed 6-18-1998; Ord. 850, passed 12-6-2001)
CHAPTER 34:  TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Federal Rent Supplement Program
   
34.02   Fiscal year
   
34.03   Federal Surplus Property Program
   
34.04   Residency policy
Contracts
   
34.15   Competitive bidding required
   
34.16   Formal contract procedure
   
34.17   Advertisements for bids
   
34.18   Scope of notice
   
34.19   Bids
   
34.20   Award of contract
   
34.21   Open market procedure
   
34.22   Professional services exempt from bidding requirements
   
34.23   Emergency purchases
   
34.24   Cooperative purchasing
   
34.25   Contracts involving state and/or federal funds
   
34.26   Utilities excepted
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01  FEDERAL RENT SUPPLEMENT PROGRAM.
   Approval is granted for participation in the Federal Rent Supplement Program
by qualified housing owners of property located in the village.
(Res. passed 5-21-1970)
§ 34.02  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village shall commence May 1, 1981 and terminate
April 30, 1982 and the fiscal year for the village each year hereafter shall
commence the first day of May and terminate on April 30 of the next succeeding
year.
(Ord. 559, passed 5-21-1981)
§ 34.03  FEDERAL SURPLUS PROPERTY PROGRAM.
   The village is authorized to participate in the state’s Federal Surplus
Property Program.
(Res. passed 2-5-2015)
§ 34.04  RESIDENCY POLICY.
   With the exception of department supervisors and Fire Department employees/
volunteers (who must live within the village), any and all employees of the
village shall at all times have residency within a 30-mile radius of the
village as an express condition of their employment and/or continued employment
by the village. If an employee is hired by the village and resides outside of
the 30-mile radius or resides outside of the village limits if he or she is a
department supervisor or Fire Department employee/volunteer, the employee shall
be granted up to nine months to secure the respective residency requirement.
(Ord. 1033, passed 9-1-2016)
CONTRACTS
§ 34.15  COMPETITIVE BIDDING REQUIRED.
   Any work or other public improvement that is not to be paid for in whole or
in part by special assessment or special taxation, and all purchases of and
contracts for supplies, materials, and services, shall, except as specifically
provided herein, be based whenever possible on competitive bids.
(Ord. 916, passed 7-3-2008)
§ 34.16  FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE.
   All work or other public improvement that is not to be paid for in whole or
in part by special assessment or special taxation, when the estimated cost
thereof shall exceed $20,000, and all purchases, orders, or contracts for
supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services when the estimated
annual fiscal cost thereof is estimated to exceed $20,000, shall be purchased
from the lowest responsible bidder, after due notice inviting bids, unless
competitive bidding is waived by a vote of two-thirds of the Trustees then
holding office.
(Ord. 916, passed 7-3-2008)
§ 34.17  ADVERTISEMENTS FOR BIDS.
   A notice inviting bids shall be published at least once ten days in advance
of the announced date for receiving the bids in a newspaper with general
circulation within the village. The village shall also advertise all pending
work or purchases by posting a notice on the public bulletin board in the
Village Hall. In addition, the notice inviting bids may be published in any
other newspaper, trade journal, or other publication to the extent deemed
necessary and in the best interests of the village, and/or as required by state
or federal law. In the event the Board determines there is no possible person
and/or entity which could be expected to submit a bid for a contract located
within the area of general circulation of the Jacksonville Journal Courier.
(Ord. 916, passed 7-3-2008)
§ 34.18  SCOPE OF NOTICE.
   The newspaper notice required herein shall include a general description of
the work to be performed or the articles to be purchased, shall state where
specifications, if any, may be secured, shall state how and when bids are to be
submitted, and shall specify the time and place for opening bids.
(Ord. 916, passed 7-3-2008)
§ 34.19  BIDS.
   (A)   Bid deposits.
      (1)   When deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees, bid deposits shall
be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders shall
be entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of the contract
by the Board of Trustees. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit
required by the Board of Trustees upon failure on its part to enter into a
contract within the appropriate number of days.
      (2)   Such bid deposit may be in the form of a certified check, bond, or
letter of credit in an amount as specified in the advertisement for bids to
ensure finalization of the contract and to indemnify the village against all
loss, damages, and claims that may accrue against the village as a consequence
of the granting of the contract.
   (B)   Bid opening procedure.
      (1)   Bids shall be submitted sealed to the village and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope.
      (2)   Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in the
public notice.
      (3)   A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the Board of
Trustees, a village employee, or other designee, in which event a tabulation of
the bids shall be furnished to the Board of Trustees at its next regular
meeting.
   (C)   Rejection of bids. The village, through its corporate authorities,
shall have the authority to reject all bids or parts of all bids when the
public interest will be served thereby.
   (D)   Bidders in default to village. The village shall not accept the bid of
a contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses, or other
money due the village.
(Ord. 916, passed 7-3-2008)
§ 34.20  AWARD OF CONTRACT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to award contracts
within the purview of this section.
   (B)   Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder on the
basis of the bid that is in the best interests of the village to accept. In
awarding the contract, in addition to price, the Board of Trustees may
consider:
      (1)   The ability, capacity, and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
      (2)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service
promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
      (3)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience, and
efficiency of the bidder;
      (4)   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or services;
      (5)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
      (6)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
      (7)   The quality, availability, and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
      (8)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service
for the use of the subject of the contract;
      (9)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid; and
      (10)   Such other factors or circumstances as may fairly and reasonably
reflect on a bidder’s ability or responsibility to perform the contract.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall cause to be prepared a written statement
outlining the factual basis for its decision to award a contract.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to require a
performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such amounts as it shall
find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the village and to
conform to the statutory requirements for such bonds.
(Ord. 916, passed 7-3-2008)
§ 34.21  OPEN MARKET PROCEDURE.
   All work and purchases of supplies, equipment, materials, and services of an
estimated annual fiscal value (individually or in the aggregate) not exceeding
$20,000, but greater than $10,000, may be made in the open market, without
newspaper advertisement and without observing the procedure prescribed by this
subchapter for the award of formal contracts, in such a manner so as to ensure
the best interests of the public after solicitation of proposals by mail,
telephone, facsimile transmission, or otherwise.
(Ord. 916, passed 7-3-2008)
§ 34.22  PROFESSIONAL SERVICES EXEMPT FROM BIDDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All contracts for professional services including, but not limited to,
accountants, attorneys, engineers, real estate appraisers, and architects, and
any other profession whose ethical code involved prohibits or discourages
involvement in normal bidding procedures, may be entered into by the village
without observing the bidding procedures prescribed by this section for the
award of contracts.
   (B)   Regular employment contracts in the municipal service shall likewise
be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 916, passed 7-3-2008)
§ 34.23  EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   In case of an apparent emergency that requires immediate work or purchase of
supplies, materials, or services, the Board of Trustees shall be empowered to
secure by open market procedure as set forth above, at the lowest obtainable
price, any work, improvement, equipment, materials, or supplies regardless of
the amount of the expenditure. A finding of such an emergency shall be made in
an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the Board of Trustees at the time
of such emergency contract or no later than the first regular Village Board
meeting thereafter.
(Ord. 916, passed 7-3-2008)
§ 34.24  COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The village shall have the authority to join with other units of government
in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interest of the village would be
served thereby.
(Ord. 916, passed 7-3-2008)
§ 34.25  CONTRACTS INVOLVING STATE AND/OR FEDERAL FUNDS.
   To the extent state and/or federal law and regulations require additional
bidding requirements for public works and purchase of supplies, materials, or
services involving the use of state and/or federal funds, the village shall
comply with said laws and regulations.
(Ord. 916, passed 7-3-2008)
§ 34.26  UTILITIES EXCEPTED.
   Contracts for utilities (electricity and natural gas), cable television,
telephone, and Internet services may be entered into by the village without
observing the bidding procedures prescribed by this subchapter for the award of
contracts.
(Ord. 916, passed 7-3-2008)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
      
52.   ELECTRICITY
      
53.   WATER
      
54.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Combination of waterworks and sanitary sewerage system
   
50.02   Location of sewer and water extensions
§ 50.01  COMBINATION OF WATERWORKS AND SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   It is hereby found, determined, and declared necessary for the best
interest of this village that the existing waterworks distribution system of
said village and the existing sanitary sewerage collection system of said
village be combined into a single utility to be known and designated as the
combined waterworks and sewerage system of the village.
   (B)   All property, real, personal, and mixed, comprising the now existing
waterworks distribution system and sanitary sewerage collection system as
hereinabove in the preamble of this section more fully described, be, and the
same is, hereby found, determined, and declared to constitute the properties of
the combined waterworks and sewerage system of said village.
   (C)   From and after the effective date of this section said existing
waterworks distribution system and said sanitary sewerage collection system
shall be owned and operated by this village as a combined utility, known as the
combined waterworks and sewerage system of said village, and all improvements
and extensions to said waterworks and sewerage system, either or both, shall be
considered as improvements and extensions to said combined utility; and all the
properties, assets, obligations, and liabilities of all kinds of said
waterworks distribution system and of said sanitary sewerage collection system,
existing, outstanding, and accruing or to accrue, shall be held, used,
confessed, and acknowledged as the properties, assets, obligations, and
liabilities of said combined utility.
(Ord. 341, passed 8-18-1966)
§ 50.02  LOCATION OF SEWER AND WATER EXTENSIONS.
   The point of termination of all extensions of sewer and water within the
limits of the village shall be at a point perpendicular to any improvements to
be served by said extensions, constructed or to be constructed on the lot or
premises closest to the end of the sewer or water main as extended.
(Ord. 446, passed 8-1-1974)
CHAPTER 51:  GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
Section
   
51.01   Recycling program
   
51.02   Garbage and refuse
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  RECYCLING PROGRAM.
   The corporate authorities of the village reserve the right to adjust and/or
discontinue making recycling program payments when, in their determination,
circumstances so warrant.
(Res. passed 12-4-2008; Ord. 1086, passed 1-29-2020)
§ 51.02  GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, and to include every refuse accumulation
of animal, fruit, or vegetable matter used or intended for food, or that
attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing of meat, fish,
fowl, fruit, or vegetables.
      REFUSE. Ashes, tin cans, broken crockery, glassware, bottles, rubbish,
junk, liquid waste, wastepaper, and like materials.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the occupant or owner of any premises within
the village to permit garbage or refuse to be placed or remain thereon, except
in containers meeting the requirements of division (C) below.
   (C)   The occupant or owner of any premises in the village shall provide as
a container for garbage and refuse a container that is sufficiently watertight
and airtight to prohibit the emission of fluids, solids and odoriferous air
therefrom. Said container shall be of such material, color, size, and shape as
may appeal to the owner or occupant aforesaid. Said container shall be of
sufficient strength to resist the curiosity of those animals or persons who
might reasonably be expected to examine or remove the contents of the same
without the authority or permission of the owner or occupant.
(Ord. 550, passed 9-4-1980)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
51.02 shall be fined not less than $50 and not more than $100 for each offense
and each 24-hour period during which said violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Ord. 550, passed 9-4-1980)
CHAPTER 52:  ELECTRICITY
Section
   
52.01   Electricity aggregation program plan adopted by reference
§ 52.01  ELECTRICITY AGGREGATION PROGRAM PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The ordinance entitled “An Ordinance Approving An Electricity Aggregation
Program Plan of Operation and Governance for the Village of South Jacksonville,
Morgan County, Illinois” is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein
as if set out in full.
(Ord. 979, passed 5-2-2013)
CHAPTER 53:  WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Conservation in the use of water in periods of drought
   
53.002   Connections to water line to Oxville
   
53.003   Water charges during new construction
   
53.004   Tampering with system
   
53.005   Definitions
Connections
   
53.020   Service connections permits; charges
   
53.021   Applications for water service; turn-on fee; deposit
   
53.022   Water service installations
   
53.023   Repairs to systems
   
53.024   Crossing connections
   
53.025   Water service pipe
   
53.026   Compliance with plumbing regulations
   
53.027   Excavations for connections
   
53.028   Shut-off boxes
   
53.029   Water service to more than one premises
Use of Public Water Service
   
53.040   Meter required
   
53.041   Resale of water; unauthorized use
Liability
   
53.055   Service failures
   
53.056   Service interruption
Inspection and Inspectors
   
53.070   Right of access; use inspection
   
53.071   Powers and authority of inspectors
Rates
   
53.085   Water service charges
   
53.086   Bills
   
53.087   Liens
   
53.088   Revenues
   
53.089   Accounts
   
53.090   Access to records
   
53.091   Effective date of rates
   
53.092   Appeals
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001  CONSERVATION IN THE USE OF WATER IN PERIODS OF DROUGHT.
   (A)   A water supply emergency shall be deemed to exist at such times and
for such periods during the period of May l to October 1 as the level of water
in the Lake Jacksonville reservoir falls five feet or more below the level of
the spillway of said lake and during all other months in the year as the level
of water in said reservoir falls six and one-half feet below the level of the
spillway of said lake.
   (B)   Whenever a water supply emergency shall exist the President shall
issue a proclamation stating that such emergency exists, the number of feet and
inches which the level of Lake Jacksonville has fallen below the level of the
spillway, and which of the restrictions provided in division (C) below are in
effect. Said proclamation shall be published one time in the Jacksonville Daily
Journal and the Jacksonville Daily Courier. Upon publication of said
proclamation in both of said newspapers, the restrictive provisions and
penalties for violation of this section shall be in effect.
   (C)   (1)   When the level of Lake Jacksonville reservoir during the period
May 1 to October 1 is at least five feet but not more than six feet, six inches
or during the rest of the year is more than six feet, six inches but not more
than eight feet below the level of the spillway of said lake, it shall be
unlawful to make use of city water for the following purposes:
         (a)   Lawn sprinkling, washing streets, driveways, or walks, watering
vegetable and flower gardens except commercial greenhouses and vegetable
gardens; and/or
         (b)   Watering shrubs and trees, except shrubs and trees planted or
transplanted within 12 months immediately preceding.
      (2)   When the level of Lake Jacksonville reservoir, during the period
May 1 to October 1, is more than six feet, six inches but not more than eight
feet or during the rest of the year is more than eight feet but not more than
ten feet below the level of the spillway of said lake, it shall be unlawful to
make use of city water for the following purposes:
         (a)   Washing motor vehicles; and/or
         (b)   All uses prohibited in division (C)(1) above.
      (3)   When the level of Lake Jacksonville reservoir during the period May
l to October 1 is more than eight feet but not more than ten feet or during the
rest of the year is more than ten feet but not more than 12 feet below the
level of the spillway of said lake, it shall be unlawful to make use of city
water for the following purposes:
         (a)   Watering of shrubs and trees transplanted within the 12 months
immediately preceding;
         (b)   Watering of golf greens;
         (c)   Use of air conditioning equipment requiring water more than four
hours per day; and/or
         (d)   All uses prohibited in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above.
      (4)   When the level of Lake Jacksonville reservoir during the period May
1 to October 1 is more than ten feet or during the rest of the year more than
12 feet below the level of the spillway of said lake, it shall be unlawful to
make use of city water for the following purposes:
         (a)   Use of air conditioning equipment requiring water; and/or
         (b)   All uses prohibited in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)(3)
above.
   (D)   The President shall cause to be published one time in the Jacksonville
Daily Journal and Jacksonville Daily Courier, a notice when the level of Lake
Jacksonville either decreases or increases so as to change the restrictions in
effect under the provisions of the preceding section.
(Ord. 221, passed 8-6-1953)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.002  CONNECTIONS TO WATER LINE TO OXVILLE.
   (A)   A record was made that it is the intent of the Board not to permit any
additional connections to the said water line by said parties and that it does
not interpret the aforesaid easement agreements to require said Board to grant
such additional connections to anyone.
   (B)   In the event said Board does grant additional water connections to any
of said parties, it is its intent to do so as a voluntary matter on a case by
case basis and it is further its intent that the granting of such permission to
a party shall not constitute a precedent requiring the grant of a similar
privilege to any other party.
(Res. passed 1-16-1975)
§ 53.003  WATER CHARGES DURING NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   There is imposed a charge for water services rendered to unimproved
lots on which water service has been made available for purposes of
construction of improvements but said service is not metered.
   (B)   The charge for water service shall be a sum equal to $0.25 per $1,000
of the valuation stated in the application for a building permit for the
premises in question.
   (C)   The charge hereby imposed is for temporary usage only which is
occasioned by the impracticality of metering during the early stages of
construction and a meter shall be installed as soon as reasonably possible and,
in any event, shall be installed forthwith upon notice to do so from the
Superintendent of the Sewer and Water Department.
(Ord. 404, passed 11-4-1971)
§ 53.004  TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the village to tamper
with, alter, or injure any part of the village waterworks or supply system, or
any meter.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.005  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
53.004,
53.005,
53.020 through
53.029,
53.040,
53.041,
53.055,
53.056,
53.070, and
53.071, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE. The standards for plumbing and the fixtures,
materials, design, and installation methods of plumbing systems adopted and
promulgated by the State Department of Health and/or its successor pursuant to
the state’s Plumbing License Act, 225 ILCS 320 1/1 et seq. (2000), as amended,
superseded, or revised.
   NONRESIDENTIAL. Defined as property zoned A-1, R-3, B-1, B-2, ORI, I-1, PD,
and PA in the village.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including an individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   PREMISES. Any building suitable for human occupancy, processing,
manufacturing, or warehousing.
   RESIDENTIAL SERVICE. Defined as property zoned R-1, R-2 and RA in Chapter
154 of this code.
   SERVICE ORDINANCE. Sections
53.004,
53.005,
53.020 through
53.029,
53.040,
53.041,
53.055,
53.056,
53.070, and
53.071, entitled “The Village of South Jacksonville, Illinois, Water Use
Ordinance 2011”.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Village of South Jacksonville,
Illinois, Sewer and Water Department.
   VILLAGE. The Village of South Jacksonville, Morgan County, Illinois.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The Water Department of the Village of South Jacksonville,
Illinois.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)
CONNECTIONS
§ 53.020  SERVICE CONNECTIONS PERMITS; CHARGES.
   (A)   No connections with the waterworks system shall be made without a
permit issued by the village. All such connections shall be made by the village
under the supervision of the village, and no connections shall be covered until
the work has been inspected to the satisfaction of the Superintendent. Whenever
any premises shall hereafter be connected with the waterworks system, a charge
shall be made.
   (B)   The owner, occupant, or party or parties in possession of any house,
structure, factory, industrial or commercial establishment, or any other
building or structure of any other character which uses water and is located on
property within the corporate limits shall cause such house, structure,
factory, industrial or commercial establishment, or any other building or
structure of any other character to be connected with the waterworks system
within 90 days from the date that water facilities become available to such
property.
   (C)   All improvements hereinafter made on real property annexed into the
village must be connected to the village’s water system when the village’s
water system is adjacent to the annexed property and within 100 feet of where
said improvements are made except those exempt by present TIF Ordinance No.
837.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.021  APPLICATIONS FOR WATER SERVICE; TURN-ON FEE; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Application. No water from the waterworks system shall be turned on
for service into any premises by any person but the Superintendent or his or
her designee. Application to have water turned on shall be made in writing to
the Superintendent and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by
and accept all of the provisions of §§
53.004,
53.005,
53.020 through
53.029,
53.040,
53.041,
53.055,
53.056,
53.070, and
53.071 as conditions governing the use and service of the waterworks system by
the applicant.
   (B)   Turn-on fee. A nonrefundable fee of $50 shall be paid for turning on
the water and an additional nonrefundable fee of $50 shall be paid for turning
off the water. In addition, a deposit fee of $100 shall be charged upon turning
on the water. The fees set forth in this division (B) may be amended from time
to time by the village.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)
§ 53.022  WATER SERVICE INSTALLATIONS.
   All service pipes and appurtenances from the waterworks system (water mains)
to the structure shall be installed by landowner. If such water service must
cross a village or state road or alley that requires boring and casing, the
cost of such boring and/or casing shall be borne by the landowner for the
service or the owner of the property being served. All such water services
shall have a curb cock at the nearest point on the public right-of-way or
easement with a curb stop and box flush with the ground.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)
§ 53.023  REPAIRS TO SYSTEMS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the landowner, occupant, and user,
jointly or severally, to immediately cause repairs to be made by a duly
licensed and qualified plumber and pay all costs pertaining to said repair.
      (2)   All repairs, extensions, and/or additions to the service pipes and
laterals shall comply with all applicable ordinances and the Illinois Plumbing
Code.
         (a)   Residential service. All repairs for service pipes and laterals
from the waterworks system (water mains) to the load side of stop box shall be
made by and at the expense of the village. (As referenced in §
53.005, residential service defined as property zoned R-1, R-2 and RA in
Chapter 154 of this code, as amended.
         (b)   Nonresidential service. From the tap at the water main to the
property being served, all repairs and excavations shall be by and at the
expense of the property owner.
         (c)   The village will accept K-copper or any materials from the
latest Illinois Plumbing Code, (Section 890, Appendix A, Table A) from the load
side of the curb stop to any premises being served.
   (B)   In the event the owner, occupant, and/or user or any of them fail to
make repairs as herein provided, the village shall serve written notice on the
owner and the occupant of said premises or post such notice in a prominent
place on said premises, directing the foregoing persons to repair the break or
leak within seven days of the date of said notice. In the event the foregoing
persons or any of them fail to repair the same, the village shall secure a
licensed plumber to make such repairs, and all charges for the same shall be
paid by the foregoing persons or any of them upon said plumber rendering a bill
for the same.
   (C)   In the event the village institutes repair of a break or leak,
believing the same to be its responsibility, and finds after entering upon the
work that the repair is the responsibility of the foregoing persons as set
forth in §§
53.004,
53.005,
53.020 through
53.029,
53.040,
53.041,
53.055,
53.056,
53.070, and
53.071, the village shall serve 24 hours written notice, the same to served as
hereinabove set forth, directing the foregoing persons to secure a licensed
plumber and complete the repair. In the event of the failure of the foregoing
persons or any of them to complete the repair as aforesaid, the village shall
complete the same and the foregoing persons or any of them shall pay all
charges for the same upon rendering of a bill for the same by the licensed
plumber secured by the village to complete the repair.
   (D)   In the event the charges for repairs payable by the owner of the
premises, the occupant thereof and the user thereof as aforesaid are not paid
within 30 days of receipt of the bill for the same, the village shall take all
legal action necessary to recover the costs of repairs from the owner,
occupant, and/or owner.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.024  CROSSING CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   If in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of
the Superintendent an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent will give notice
to the water customer to install such an approved device immediately. The water
customer shall, at his or her own expense, install such an approved device at a
location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code and all
applicable local regulations and shall have inspections and tests made of such
approved devices as required by the Illinois Plumbing Code and local
regulations.
   (B)   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or
permit to be maintained any connection whereby private, auxiliary, or emergency
water supply other than the regular public water supply of the village enters
the supply or distribution system of the municipality, unless such private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of
such supply shall have been approved in advance and in writing by the village
and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made by
an approved cross-connection control device inspector hired by the customer.
Said surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of public record and
shall be repeated at least every two years, or as often as the Superintendent
shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys shall be maintained and available
for review for a period of at least five years.
   (D)   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system for the purpose of verifying the
presence or absence of cross-connections, and the Superintendent or his or her
authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer
regarding the required cross-connection control inspection. On demand, the
owner, lessees, or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
Superintendent any information which he or she may request regarding the piping
system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the Superintendent,
be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided in this
section.
   (E)   The Superintendent of the village is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice (not to exceed seven days) to the occupant
thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of the provisions of this section is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains and to charge a
$50 disconnection fee. Water service to such property shall not be restored
until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this section, and until a reconnection fee of $50 is paid to the
village. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Superintendent is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the
public water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection.
   (F)   The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained, or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.025  WATER SERVICE PIPE.
   (A)   All water service from the water main to the curb stop shall be of K-
copper without joints.
   (B)   From the load side of the curb stop to premises being served shall be
of material approved and outlined by the Illinois Plumbing Code, as amended
from time to time, and shall comply with all village ordinances at no time will
plastic or galvanized pipe be used regardless of who is laying said pipe.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.026  COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING REGULATIONS.
   No water shall be turned on for the service in any premises in which the
plumbing does not comply with the ordinances of the village and the Illinois
Plumbing Code, as amended, provided, that water may be turned on for
construction work in unfinished buildings, subject to the provisions of §§
53.004,
53.005,
53.020 through
53.029,
53.040,
53.041,
53.055,
53.056,
53.070, and
53.071.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)
§ 53.027  EXCAVATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Excavation for installing service pipes and appurtenances or repairing
the same shall be made in compliance with the ordinance provisions relating to
making excavations in streets, provided, that it shall be unlawful to place any
service pipe in the same excavation with, or directly over, any drainpipe or
sewer lateral, or in violation of the Illinois Plumbing Code.
   (B)   The installation of water service shall be in compliance with the
separation requirements for water and sewer lines as required by the State
Environmental Protection Agency and the Illinois Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)
§ 53.028  SHUT-OFF BOXES.
   (A)   A curb stop and box shall be placed on every service pipe, and shall
be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line where this is
practicable.
   (B)   Such boxes shall be so located that they are easily accessible and
shall be protected from frost.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)
§ 53.029  WATER SERVICE TO MORE THAN ONE PREMISES.
   (A)   No owner or plumber shall be permitted to connect water service pipes
into any two distinct premises or tenements. Nor shall any water service lines
be allowed to cross lots or buildings to adjoining premises. Existing apartment
houses shall be considered as one premises.
   (B)   All apartment buildings constructed after the adoption of §§
53.004,
53.005,
53.020 through
53.029,
53.040,
53.041,
53.055,
53.056,
53.070, and
53.071 shall have meters for each apartment/unit in each apartment building
unless other arrangements are agreed to by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)
USE OF PUBLIC WATER SERVICE
§ 53.040  METER REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   All premises using the village water supply must be equipped
with an adequate cubic foot water meter. All meters three-quarters of an inch
or less placed in service on any premises using the village water supply will
be provided and owned by the Water Department which retains the right to
inspect, repair, and replace them upon reasonable notice to the owner of the
premises.
      (2)   Whether a meter owned by the village is placed in service, other
than as a replacement for a meter owned by the village already in use, the
property owner or other person receiving such service shall make a deposit as
herein specified. When a meter owned by the village is placed in service as a
replacement for a privately owned meter, the property owner, or other person
receiving such service, will make a deposit as herein provided, unless the
privately owned meter is received in exchange by the Water Department.
      (3)   A meter larger than three-quarters of an inch shall be installed
and maintained by the property owner or other person receiving such service.
The village reserves the right to inspect the meter, subject to reasonable
notice being provided to the property owner or other person receiving such
service, and the village may make all necessary repairs and replacements to the
meter as deemed appropriate. All costs associated with repairs and/or
replacements of said meters shall be borne by the property owner or other
person receiving such service.
      (4)   The money received from these deposits, and all other deposits
received by the Water Department, shall be placed in a revolving fund for the
purchase and maintenance of water meters.
      (5)   Refund of the water deposit shall be made to the owners of the
premises only if said premises are destroyed or no longer needed and the
village owned meter is returned in good condition.
   (B)   Meters shall be installed in a location that will provide easy access
thereto. All newly installed water meters shall be placed in a meter box, in a
closet, or other area both easily accessible and acceptable to the
Superintendent and his or her designees.
   (C)   The Superintendent shall read or cause to be read every water meter
used by the village at such times as are necessary so that the bills may be
sent out at the proper times.
   (D)   (1)   Upon request or complaint of the consumer, any water meter shall
be tested for accuracy.
      (2)   If, upon testing, a meter owned by the village is found to be over
3% off in accuracy, the meter shall be replaced at no cost to the consumer.
      (3)   If the meter is found to be 3% or less in accuracy, then the
consumer shall pay a testing fee of $50.
   (E)   Any house or building constructed within the village or constructed
outside of the village and using village water must have installed a meter that
will service each individual premises located upon any new constructed
property.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)
§ 53.041  RESALE OF WATER; UNAUTHORIZED USE.
   No water supplied by the waterworks system of the village shall be resold by
any user. No water user may supply water to other families or allow them to
take it, except for use on the premises and for the purpose specified in such
user’s approved application, not after water is introduced into any building or
upon any premises shall any person make or employ any other person to make any
tap or connection with work upon the premises for alterations, repairs,
extensions, or attachments without written permit therefor. Resale of
authorized use of water shall be grounds for discontinuance of water service to
the user, or the premises, or both.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)  Penalty, see §
53.999
LIABILITY
§ 53.055  SERVICE FAILURES.
   All waterworks service supplied by the waterworks system shall be upon the
express condition that the village shall not be liable nor shall any claim be
made against it for damages or injury caused by reason of the breaking of any
main, branches, service pipes, apparatus, or appurtenances connected with said
system or any part or portion thereof, or for any interruption of the supply by
reason of the breakage of machinery, or by reason of stoppage, alterations,
extensions, or renewals.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)
§ 53.056  SERVICE INTERRUPTION.
   The village reserves the right to shut off water at any time in the mains
for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, making connections with or extensions
to same, or for the concentrating of water in any part of the village in case
of fire, and for restricting the use of water in case of deficiency in supply,
including the suspension of the use of water for sprinkling lawns or gardens.
No claim shall be made against the village by reason of the breaking of any
service pipe or service cock, or damage arising from shutting off of water for
repairing, laying, or relaying mains, hydrants, or other connections, or
repairing any part of the water system, or from failure of the water supply, or
by increasing the water pressure at any time, or from concentrated or
restricted use of water as above.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)
INSPECTION AND INSPECTORS
§ 53.070  RIGHT OF ACCESS; USE INSPECTION.
   The village and its employees, the State Department of Public Health, and
the State Environmental Protection Agency, shall have ready access at all
reasonable times to the premises, places, or buildings where water service is
supplied for the purpose of inspecting, examining, and testing the consumption,
use, and flow of water, and it shall be unlawful for any person to interfere
with, prevent, or obstruct the village or its duly authorized agent, the State
Department of Public Health, or the State Environmental Protection Agency, in
their duties hereunder. Every user of the system shall take the same upon the
conditions prescribed in this section.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)
§ 53.071  POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village,
the State Department of Public Health, and the State Environmental Protection
Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of §§
53.004,
53.005,
53.020 through
53.029,
53.040,
53.041,
53.055,
53.056,
53.070, and
53.071. The Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no authority
to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical oil refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for
waste treatment.
   (B)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the waterworks lying within
said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall
be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 945, passed 4-7-2011)
RATES
§ 53.085  WATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   The water service charge for the use of and for service supplied by
the water facilities of the village shall consist of a water user charge.
   (B)   The water user charge is levied on all users to recover the operation,
maintenance plus replacement (O, M, and R), debt service, and capital
improvements costs and shall be based on water usage as recorded by water
meters.
   (C)   The water user charge shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate the annual water volume;
      (2)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the water facilities, including a replacement fund for the year, for
all works categories; and
      (3)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons and cost per customer bill.
   (D)   The adequacy of the water user charge shall be reviewed, not less
often than annually, by certified public accountants for the village in their
annual audit report. The water service charge shall be revised periodically to
reflect a change in debt services, capital costs, or O, M, and R costs.
   (E)   The volume of flow used for computing water user charges shall be the
metered water consumption read and recorded and converted to whole gallons.
   (F)   (1)   A minimum charge of $10.20 per month for premises served by both
water and sewer; or a minimum charge of $11.02 for premises served by water
only shall be applied to all users whose water consumption does not exceed
2,000 gallons per month.
      (2)   Usage in excess of 2,000 gallons per month will be charged at the
following rates:
Water Rates for Premises Served by Both Water and Sewer
Gallons Rate
Water Rates for Premises Served by Both Water and Sewer
Gallons                Rate
0—2,000 gallons      $10.20
2,001—5,000 gallons  $10.20+0.00359 per gallon over 2,000
5,001—10,000 gallons $20.97+0.00340 per gallon over 5,000
10,001—20,000 gallons$37.97+0.00341 per gallon over 10,000
20,001—30,000 gallons$71.47+0.00322 per gallon over 20,000
30,001—50,000 gallons$103.67+0.00303 per gallon over 30,000
50,001—100,000 gallon$164.27+0.00296 per gallon over 50,000
100,000—over         $312.27+.00280 per gallon over 100,000
Water Rates for Premises Served by Water Only
Gallons Rate
Water Rates for Premises Served by Water Only
Gallons                Rate
0—2,000 gallons      $11.02
2,001—5,000 gallons  $11.02+0.00389 per gallon over 2,000
5,001—10,000 gallons $22.69+0.00367 per gallon over 5,000
10,001—20,000 gallons$41.04+0.00358 per gallon over 10,000
20,001—30,000 gallons$76.84+0.00337 per gallon over 20,000
30,001—50,000 gallons$110.54+0.00318 per gallon over 30,000
50,001—100,000 gallon$174.14+0.00308 per gallon over 50,000
100,001—over         $328.14+0.00306 per gallon over 100,000
 
(Ord. 862, passed 12-5-2002)
§ 53.086  BILLS.
   (A)   Said rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly. The owner
of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service shall be
jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such premises and the
service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon the condition
that the owner of the premises, occupant, and user of the services are jointly
and severally liable therefor to the village.
   (B)   (1)   Bills for service shall be sent out by the Water Clerk on the
first day of the month second succeeding the period for which the service is
billed.
      (2)   All bills are due and payable 15 days after being sent out. A
penalty of 10% shall be added to all bills not paid by the fifteenth day after
they have been rendered.
   (C)   If the charges for such services are not paid within 45 days of
becoming delinquent, water service shall be discontinued without further notice
and shall not be reinstated until all accounts are settled.
(Ord. 862, passed 12-5-2002)
§ 53.087  LIENS.
   (A)   Lien; notice of delinquency.
      (1)   Whenever a bill for service remains unpaid for 45 days after it has
been rendered, the Water Clerk shall file with the County Recorder of Deeds a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of
the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the
village claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges subsequent to
the period covered by the bill.
      (2)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises
and the Village Clerk has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner
of the premises if this address be known to the Clerk whenever such bill
remains unpaid for the period 45 days for a monthly bill.
      (3)   The failure of the Water Clerk to record such lien or to mail such
notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the foregoing
section.
   (B)   Foreclosure of lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and
directed to institute such proceedings in the name of the village in any court
having jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the
monthly bill has remained unpaid for 45 days after it has been rendered.
(Ord. 862, passed 12-5-2002)
§ 53.088  REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the water system
shall be deposited in the water account of the Water Fund. All such revenues
and money shall be held by the Village Treasurer separate and apart from his or
her private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the Village
Treasurer not more than ten days after receipt of the same, or at such more
frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the President and
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Village Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the water
system and all other funds and moneys incident to the operation of such system
as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in the account
of the fund designated as the “Water Revenue Fund of the Village of South
Jacksonville, Illinois”. Said Treasurer shall administer such fund in every
respect in the manner provided by statute of the Revised Cities and Villages
Act, being 65 ILCS 5, effective January, 1942.
(Ord. 862, passed 12-5-2002)
§ 53.089  ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the water system, and at
regular annual intervals he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the water system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the water
facilities, including a replacement cost. The financial information to be shown
in the audit report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the water plant for the
current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system; and
      (5)   Number of nonmetered users.
(Ord. 862, passed 12-5-2002)
§ 53.090  ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The State EPA or it authorized representative shall have access to any
books, documents, papers, and records of the village which are applicable to
the village system of user charges for the purposes of making audit,
examination, excerpts, and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the
terms of the loan agreement and rules or any state loan.
(Ord. 862, passed 12-5-2002)
§ 53.091  EFFECTIVE DATE OF RATES.
   The rates and service charges established for user charges in §
53.085 shall be effective beginning January 1, 2004 and on bills to be rendered
on the second succeeding month beginning March 1, 2004 for month users.
(Ord. 862, passed 12-5-2002)
§ 53.092  APPEALS.
   (A)   The method for computation of rates and service charges established
for user charges in §
53.085 shall be made available to a user within seven days of receipt of a
written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the
computations thereof shall be remedied by the Superintendent after notification
of a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
   (B)   A user may file with the Water Clerk a written protest and petition
for hearing within ten days of receiving his or her monthly bill. If a written
protest and petition for hearing is not filed with the Water Clerk within the
ten-day period, the water charges shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   (C)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is filed within the ten-
day period, the Superintendent shall fix the time and place for hearing and
shall give written notice to the user. The hearing shall be scheduled for a
date within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the user requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   Whenever a user has filed a timely written protest and petition for
hearing, the Superintendent shall conduct a hearing regarding the appeal. The
user, however, may request that a hearing officer conduct the hearing rather
than the Superintendent.
   (E)   At the hearing, the Superintendent/hearing officer shall preside and
shall hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the computation of
rates and service charges. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial
proceedings shall not apply.
   (F)   Within ten days of the conclusion of the hearing, the Superintendent/
hearing officer shall make a written determination on the basis of the evidence
presented at the hearing. The user shall be provided with a copy of the written
decision.
(Ord. 862, passed 12-5-2002)
§ 53.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the terms of §
53.001 shall be fined not less than $1 nor more than $100 for each and every
offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
53.005,
53.020 through
53.029,
53.040,
53.041,
53.055,
53.056,
53.070, and
53.071 shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit (not to exceed seven days)
for the satisfactory correction thereof. A copy of said notice shall be
promptly served on the owner of the premises. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (C)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $200 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
53.004,
53.005,
53.020 through
53.029,
53.040,
53.041,
53.055,
53.056,
53.070, and
53.071 shall become liable to the village by reasons of such violation and
shall be liable for all damages sustained by the village including, but not
limited to the costs of repairing and cleaning up the waterworks system.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of §§
53.086 through
53.090 shall be fined not less than $200 for each offense.
(Ord. 221, passed 8-6-1953; Ord. 862, passed 12-5-2002; Ord. 945, passed 4-7-
2011)
CHAPTER 54:  SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Required use of public sewers
   
54.02   Private wastewater disposal
   
54.03   Building sewers and connections
   
54.04   Use of public sewers
   
54.05   Protection of wastewater treatment system from damage
   
54.06   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
54.07   Definitions
   
54.08   Application for utility services
Rates
   
54.20   Wastewater service charges
   
54.21   Bills
   
54.22   Liens
   
54.23   Accounts
   
54.24   Notice of rates; access to records
   
54.25   Effective date of rates
   
54.26   Appeals
 
   
54.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01  REQUIRED USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property in any area
under the jurisdiction of the village any human or animal excrement, garbage,
or other objectionable waste which ordinarily would be regarded as wastewater
or industrial wastes.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NDPES
permit.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect, or cause to be
connected, any drain carrying, or to carry, any toilet, sink, basement, septic
tank, cesspool, industrial water, or any fixture or device discharging
wastewater or polluting substances, to any stormwater drain under jurisdiction
of the village.
   (D)   No person shall construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater except as hereinafter provided.
   (E)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
jurisdiction of the village and abutting any street, alley, or right-of-way in
which there is now located, or may be in the future be located, a public sewer
of the village, is hereby required, at his or her expense, to install sanitary
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 60 days
after the date of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is
within 200 feet of the property line and provided that said public sewer is
adequate to handle the additional connection.
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.02  PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sewer is not available, the building sewer shall be
connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with all
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the village.
The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
village, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and
other information as deemed necessary by the village.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
village. The village shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
village when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within one working day of
the receipt of written notice by the village.
   (D)   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code, being 225 ILCS 225, and with the State
Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any private
wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than 7,500 square feet. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks,
cesspools, and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be
abandoned, cleaned of sludge, and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (F)   The owner of a private wastewater disposal facility shall operate and
maintain the facility in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to
the village.
   (G)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Department of
Public Health.
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.03  BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Wastewater service shall be furnished only upon the filing of an
application with the village on a form supplied by the village. The application
shall include, but not be limited to, the name of the applicant, the premises
to be served, the size of service desired, the date service is desired, and
shall include a record of service installation, inspection, and approval by the
authority, and a record of water meter and wastewater meter readings upon
commencement of service to the applicant.
   (B)   The work of installing sewers performed pursuant to permit shall be
done by skilled and responsible sewer builders and drain layers approved by the
village. Notice must be given to the village at least one working day prior to
the beginning of any work upon a building sewer or a public sewer and no
materials shall be used or work covered until inspected and approved by the
village.
   (C)   Any person filling over a sewer shall provide written notice of such
action to the village at least one working day prior to the commencement of the
filling. Such written notice shall not absolve the person from any liability
for damage to or collapse of the sewer as a result of such filling. Any
manholes in such fill shall be brought to the grade of the fill to the
satisfaction of the village at the cost of the person doing the filling.
   (D)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the village. Before a permit may
be issued for excavating for sewers in any public street, way, or alley, the
person applying for such permit shall have executed unto the village and
deposited with the village a bond with corporate surety, said bond to cover
public liability in a sum of not less than $40,000 and property damage in a sum
of not less than $10,000 and worker’s compensation insurance fully protecting
all persons who may be in his or her employ, conditioned that he or she will
perform faithfully all work with due care and diligence, and in accordance with
the laws, codes, or ordinances pertaining to sewers. This bond shall state that
the person will indemnify and save harmless the village and the owner of the
premises against all damages, costs, expenses, outlays, and claims of every
nature and kind arising out of unskillfulness or negligence on his or her part
in connection with sewers or excavation for sewers as prescribed in this
chapter. Such bond shall remain in force and must be executed for a period of
one year, except that on such expiration, it shall remain in force as to all
penalties, claims, and demands that may have accrued thereunder prior to such
expiration.
   (E)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for
residential wastewater service; and for commercial, institutional,
governmental, or industrial wastewater service. In either case, the owner or
his or her agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
village.
      (2)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the village. Any industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type
of activity.
   (F)   The village shall not approve any connection of the building sewer to
the public sewer unless and until the inspector shall determine that such
sewers are constructed and installed in accordance with this chapter.
   (G)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream wastewater
treatment system, including sewers, pump stations, and wastewater treatment
systems, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently handle
the additional anticipated waste load.
   (H)   The applicant for wastewater service shall pay all costs and expense
incidental to the installation and connection of the building sewer, and the
maintenance thereof, from the point of connection to the public sewer of the
village to the premises of the applicant. The owner of the person installing
the building sewer for said owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
   (I)   At the time of filing a building sewer permit application, a
connection fee shall be paid to the village in accordance with the following
schedule for respective types of building sewer permits; as to all persons or
entities, whether for residential, commercial, institutional, governmental, or
industrial user within the village limits, a connection fee of $100 shall be
charged.
   (J)   (1)   The village must approve all plans and specifications for any
public sewer extensions. Before any public sewer extensions are installed, the
plans and specifications must be reviewed and approved by the State
Environmental Protection Agency.
      (2)   Ownership rights-of-way and title must be conveyed to the village
for all public sewer extensions installed by anyone other than the village. The
village shall maintain the extended public sewers thereafter.
      (3)   No extension of the public sewer will be permitted if, in the
opinion of the village, the wastewater treatment system does not have the
necessary capacity to serve the proposed extension.
   (K)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the extension considered as the building sewer for the rear building; and
except that multifamily dwelling units, including apartments and mobile home
trailer parks, may use a single common building sewer for drainage of
individual dwelling units.
   (L)   Old building sewers or any portion thereof may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
inspector, to meet all requirements of this chapter and are adequate to serve
the purposes of the new building and its use. Old sewer taps and that portion
of the sewer under paved streets or alleys may be utilized even though they may
not meet all the requirements of this chapter, if they are found, on
examination and test by the inspector, to be structurally satisfactory and
adequate to protect against dangers giving rise to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (M)   In addition to the regulations for use of the village’s wastewater
treatment system as contained in this chapter, there is hereby incorporated by
reference the Plumbing Code of the village, which regulations shall be
considered part of the contract between the village and every person connecting
to the village’s wastewater treatment system. In the absence of ordinance or
Plumbing Code provisions, or in amplification thereof, the materials and
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society of
Testing Materials, the Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice
No. 9, and the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois shall apply.
   (N)   The building sewers and/or public sewers shal1 be constructed of
ductile iron sewer pipe and fittings meeting the current A.S.T.M. Specification
for Ductile Iron Gravity Sewer Pipe and A.S.T.M. Specification for Ductile Iron
Fittings or PVC sewer pipe or PVC composite sewer pipe and fittings meeting the
current A.S.T.M. Specifications for Poly Vinyl Chloride (PVC) plastic pipe and
fittings (Schedule 40), and A.S.T.M. Specifications for PVC Composite Sewer
Piping or reinforced concrete pipe (RCP) meeting the current A.S.T.M.
Specification for Reinforced Concrete Sewer Pipe. If installed in filled or
unstable ground, the building sewers and/or public sewers shall be ductile iron
sewer pipe or reinforced concrete pipe, except that PVC sewer pipe meeting the
above specification requirements may be accepted if laid on a suitable improved
bed or cradle as approved by the inspector.
   (O)   (1)   All joints and connections on building sewers and public sewers
shall be made gas-tight and water-tight.
      (2)   Joints for ductile iron sewer pipe shall be mechanical joint or
push-on joint. To assemble a push-on joint, the following method is to be used
unless the manufacturer specifically recommends another method. After placing a
length of pipe in the trench, the spigot end shall be centered in the bell and
the pipe forced home and brought to correct line and grade. The pipe shall be
secured in place with approved backfill material tamped under it except at the
bells.
      (3)   To assemble a mechanical joint, the following method is to be used,
unless the manufacturer specifically recommends another method. Wash thoroughly
with soapy water the pipe socket (or bell), plain end (or spigot), and the
rubber gasket. Place gland, followed by gasket, over the plain end of the pipe.
Insert in socket. Push the gasket into position, making sure that it is evenly
seated in the socket of the pipe bell. Move the gland into position against the
face of the rubber gasket, insert bolts, and make finger-tight. Tighten bolts
alternately, that is, tighten a bottom bolt, then a top bolt and so on all
around the joint until tight.
      (4)   Joints for PVC sewer pipe shall be elastomeric gasket joints or
solvent cement joints. A solvent-cemented joint is one in which pipe solvent
cements into a coupling to form the joint closure. Ensure that surfaces to be
jointed are clean and dry. Liberally apply solvent to pipe end and inside of
coupling. Shove pipe home, set pipe to line and grade.
      (5)   The elastomeric gasket joint is a sliding assembly in which the
lubricated pipe spigot end slides under the rubber ring and into the bell. Make
certain the bell and rubber ring are clean. Make sure the pipe spigot end is
clean. Lubricate the spigot end of the pipe. Be sure to cover the entire spigot
end circumference. Insert the spigot end into the bell so that it is in contact
with the rubber ring. Keep the pipe lengths in proper alignment. Brace the bell
while the spigot end is pushed in under the rubber ring, so that previously
completed joints will not be closed up. Push the spigot into the bell until the
reference mark on the pipe barrel is flush with the end of the bell.
      (6)   Joints for RCP sewer pipe shall be rubber gasket joint
construction. Immediately before making joint, lubricate entire gasket and
inside of bell of last pipe and spigot end of pipe with an approved vegetable
lubricant. Take care that gasket and ends of pipe are clean and free of sand
and gravel. Introduce spigot of pipe being laid with gasket in place, into bell
end of previously laid pipe. Set pipe to line and grade, and then jack or push
completely home.
   (P)   The size of building sewers shall be subject to the approval of the
inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four inches. The
slope of such four-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighth inch per foot. A
slope of one-fourth inch per foot shall be used wherever practical. Any sewer
laid longitudinally in public streets, alleys, or easements, which could
connect more than one building sewer or could be extended to connect more than
one building sewer, shall not be less than eight inches in diameter, shall be
laid on a minimum grade of four feet per 1,000 feet and shall be constructed to
a maximum depth to permit further extension thereto. Sewers installed
longitudinally in a public street, alley, or easement shall be constructed in
accordance with plans and specifications prepared by a registered professional
engineer and approved by the village. All sewer excavations in public streets
and alleys shall be properly braced and sheeted so as to prevent any sloughing
or caving, and, when the work is finished, the excavation shall be backfilled
with sand, so that there will be no after settlement of the street or alley
surface.
   (Q)   The building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation
sufficient to afford protection from frost. All excavations required for the
installation of a building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise
approved by the inspector. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in
accordance with current A.S.T.M. specifications except that no backfill shall
be placed until the work has been inspected by the inspector.
   (R)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary wastewater carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer. No water operated wastewater ejector shall be used.
   (S)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sewer.
   (T)   The connection of the building sewer to the public sewer will not be
allowed until the completion of the construction of the lowest level of the
building floor. The footings and foundation also must be backfilled prior to
connection to the public sewer.
   (U)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made gas-tight and water-tight, and shall conform to the requirements of this
chapter and the Plumbing Code of the village.
   (V)   The connection of a building sewer into the public sewer shall be made
at a “Y” branch or “T” branch, if such a branch is available at a suitable
location. If the public sewer has no properly located “Y” or “T” branch
available, the applicant shall install a “Y” or “T” branch or a “Y” or “T”
saddle fitting (for PVC composite sewer) at the location specified by the
inspector. Under no circumstances will the sewer service protrude into the
sewer pipe to which the connection is made. The invert of the building sewer at
the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher elevation than the
invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made and the
connection made secure and water-tight by encasement in concrete. Special
fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the inspector.
Manholes shall be constructed at any junction of an eight-inch diameter sewer
or larger into a public sewer. Building sewer connections into manholes shall
be subject to the approval of the inspector.
   (W)   The applicant for the building sewer shall notify the village when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the inspector.
   (X)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, utility lines, and other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory
to the village at the expense of the applicant.
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.04  USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in an
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
village any wastewater or other polluted water except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NDPES
permit. All disposal by a person into the wastewater system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Clean Water Act and more stringent state and local standards.
   (B)   Users of the wastewater treatment system shall immediately notify the
village of any unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or
otherwise to the wastewater treatment system.
   (C)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (D)   No existing or new drain tile, foundation tile, or other tile which
could or does collect surface or subsurface water shall be maintained or
constructed so as to permit or allow the flow therefrom to be drained,
discharged, or pumped into the public sewer.
   (E)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the village. Industrial cooling waters or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, with approval of the village, to a
storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute
a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard
in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment system;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the wastewater treatment system;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater treatment system such as, but not limited
to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers,
tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders; and
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand
concentration greater than 200 mg/l or total suspended solids concentration
greater than 250 mg/l unless prior approval is received in writing from the
village.
   (G)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the village that such wastes can harm either the sewers, wastewater
treatment system, or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream;
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
village will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the wastewater treatment system, capacity
of the wastewater treatment system, degree of treatability of wastes in the
wastewater treatment system, and maximum limits established by regulatory
agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F, 65°C;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials,
petroleum or mineral oils, or waxes, whether emulsified or not, in excess of
100 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32°F and 150°F, 0°C and 65°C;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes containing fats, animal, or vegetable oils or
grease, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing
substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F
and 150°F, 0°C and 65°C;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the village;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment system exceeds the limits
established by the village for such materials;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the village as necessary after treatment of the composite
wastewater, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (8)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the village in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (9)   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.0;
      (10)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the village in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations;
      (11)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as
permitted by the village in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations;
      (12)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, total suspended solids, chemical oxygen demand, or
chlorine requirements in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on
the wastewater treatment system; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
slugs as defined herein.
      (13)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment system
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (H)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in of this chapter, and/or which are in
violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in the Federal Clean Water
Act and any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the village may
have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment system, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the village may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or wastewater charges, under
the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   If the village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the system and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the village, and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (I)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the village, they are necessary for the proper handling or treatment
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the village, and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (J)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities or greases,
oil, and sand interceptors are provided, they shall be maintained continuously
in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (K)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the village, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together
with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole,
when required, shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the village. The manhole shall be
installed and operated by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be operational, safe, and accessible at all
times.
   (L)   (1)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to comply with this chapter and any special conditions for
discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction
over the discharge.
      (2)   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but no less than
once per year the industry must supply a complete analyses of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state,
and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the village at such times and in such
manner as prescribed by the village. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the village. At such times as
deemed necessary, the village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analyses by an outside laboratory service.
   (M)   (1)   All sampling and analysis of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in the current Environmental
Protection Agency. Sampling and analytical techniques may be further specified
by the village in order to assess the effect of wastewater constituents upon
the wastewater treatment system and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb, and property. Where the current EPA requirements do not contain
sampling and analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analysis must be performed using procedures approved by the village.
      (2)   Samples shall be taken at the control manhole. Certain analyses
(such as, pH, DO, conductivity, and the like) may be directly performed upon
grab samples taken periodically at the control manhole while BOD and total
suspended solids analyses are normally performed upon 24-hour composite samples
taken at the control manhole. If a control manhole does not exist, then
sampling and analysis will be performed at the manhole immediately downstream
from the point where the building sewer connects to the public sewer, or at
another point acceptable to the village, including the user’s buildings and
grounds.
   (N)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor by
the industrial concern, provided such payments are in accordance with federal
and state guidelines for wastewater charge system.
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.05  PROTECTION OF WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM FROM DAMAGE.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater treatment system.
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.06  POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The village and other duly authorized employees of the village, the
State Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, bearing proper credentials and identifications, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing of waste streams in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. The village or its representative shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for
waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties, the village
or duly authorized employees of the village, the State Environmental Protection
Agency, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the person and the person shall
be held harmless for injury or death to the village employees, and the village
shall indemnify the person against loss or damage to its property by village
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the person and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the person to maintain safe conditions as required in this chapter.
   (C)   The village and other duly authorized employees of the village bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater treatment
system lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991)
§ 54.07  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The Village President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
South Jacksonville, Morgan County, Illinois and its duly authorized employees.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen, expressed in
milligrams per liter (mg/l), utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic
matter under standard laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer five feet
outside the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial wastewater only, and to which storm, surface, and groundwater are
not intentionally admitted.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm, surface, or
groundwater drainage, but no sanitary or industrial wastewater, other than
unpolluted cooling water.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial wastewater only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys a stormwater or other
clean water drainage but no sanitary or industrial wastewater.
   CLASSES OF USERS. The division of wastewater treatment system customers by
waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL. Includes transient lodging, retail, and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise for personal,
household, or industrial consumption, and/or rendering services to others.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL. Includes legislative, judicial, administrative, and
regulatory activities of federal, state, and local governments, such as
courthouses, police and fire stations, city halls, and similar governmental
users.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL.
         (a)   Includes manufacturing activities involving the mechanical or
chemical transformation of materials or substances into other products.
         (b)   These activities occur in establishments usually described as
plants, factories, or mills and characteristically use power machines and
material handling equipment.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL. Includes social, charitable, religious, and
educational activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes,
penal institutions, and similarly institutional users.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL. Includes all dwelling units such as detached,
semidetached, and row houses, mobile homes, garden and standard apartments, and
permanent multifamily dwellings.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive wastewater, storm, surface, and
groundwater drainage.
   COMBINED WASTEWATER. A combination of both sanitary and industrial
wastewater and storm, surface, or ground water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A pollutant for which the wastewater treatment system
is designed to treat and includes biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids,
pH and fecal coliform bacteria, or a pollutant for which the plant is able to
remove to a substantial degree, being 80% or greater.
   CONTROL MANHOLE.
      (1)   A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged.
      (2)   Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop.
      (3)   The purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the
village’s representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEPRECIATION. An annual operating cost reflecting capital consumption and
obsolescence of the wastewater treatment system.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary wastewater is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL.
      (1)   Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will separate
by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility approved by
the village.
      (2)   A wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE OIL if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the wastewater
treatment system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including nonbiodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any nongovernmental user of the publicly owned wastewater
treatment system, identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual,
1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow, or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial,
or business establishment or process or from the development, recovery, or
processing of any natural resource, as distinct from sanitary wastewater.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the sources.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections with
storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface run-off,
street wash waters, or drainage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the village to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the
public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that either: has a flow of 50,000
gallons or more per average work day; or has a flow greater than 10% of the
flow carried by the public wastewater treatment system receiving the waste; or
has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standards
issued under the Federal Clean Water Act; or is found by the permit issuance
authority, in connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly
owned wastewater treatment system receiving the waste, to have significant
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on
that wastewater treatment system or upon the quality of effluent from that
wastewater treatment system.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   METERED USAGE. The metered water usage of any individual customer, unless
separate metering of wastewater flow is provided by the customer, wherein it
shall mean metered wastewater flow of any individual customer.
   mg/l.
      (1)   Milligrams per liter shall mean a unit of the concentration of
water or wastewater constituent.
      (2)   It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water.
      (3)   It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million,
to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and
wastewater analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NONINDUSTRIAL USERS. All other users of the wastewater treatment system
other than industrial users.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER.
      (1)   As defined for the purpose of determining surcharge limits, a
wastewater having an average daily suspended solids concentration of not more
than 250 mg/l, and average daily BOD of not more than 200 mg/l.
      (2)   AVERAGE DAILY is defined for the purposes of this chapter as the
average of proportional readings taken in the 24-hour period starting at 12:00
a.m. (midnight) and ending at 12:00 a.m. (midnight) the next day.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the national pollutant discharge
elimination system for discharge of wastewaters to the waters of the United
States pursuant to the Federal Clean Water Act.
   OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPLACEMENT COSTS.
      (1)   All costs, direct and indirect, including scheduled replacement
costs necessary to ensure adequate wastewater treatment on a continuing basis,
conforming with federal, state, and local requirements, and assuring optimal
long-term facility management.
      (2)   Such costs shall not include debt service costs.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipality, private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity
discharging any wastewater to the wastewater treatment system.
   pH. The negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
The pH of any discharge into the wastewater treatment system shall not be less
than 6.0 nor more than 9.0.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. Term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.22 pounds of
suspended solids.
   ppm. Parts per million by weight.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial wastewater from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into the wastewater treatment system.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (one and twenty-seven
hundredth centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any governmental agency having jurisdiction by law over
construction and use of a wastewater treatment system.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and which is owned and controlled by the public authority, consisting
of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a wastewater treatment system.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station position in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
wastewater treatment system to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such system was designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and/or industrial wastes, and
to which storm, surface, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying wastewater.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRY. Any industry that will contribute greater than 10% of
the design flow and/or design pollutant loading of the wastewater treatment
system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flow during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater drainage
but excludes wastewater and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling
water.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Utilities of the village’s wastewater
treatment system, or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids and which are
removable by laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse effects, such as cancer genetic mutations, and physiological
manifestations as defined in standards issued pursuant to the Federal Clean
Water Act.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment system provided. Effluent criteria are defined
in the KPDES permit and water quality standards are defined in the water
pollution regulations of the state.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the wastewater solids transformed
to gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WASTEWATER. The combination of liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, governmental facilities,
and institutions of a community, together with any groundwater, surface water,
and stormwater that may be present. WASTEWATER is used interchangeably with
SEWAGE.
      (1)   COMBINED WASTEWATER. Wastes including sanitary wastewater,
industrial wastewater, stormwater, infiltration, and inflow carried to the
wastewater treatment system by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. A combination of liquid and water carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment, including wastes from
pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
      (3)   SANITARY WASTEWATER. A combination of liquid and water carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   WASTEWATER CHARGES.
      (1)   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the
public sewer system.
      (2)   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. A charge levied on users to improve,
extend, or reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
      (3)   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for
payment of interest, principal, and coverage of (loan, bond, and the like)
outstanding.
      (4)   LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE. Shall mean charges for costs other than
the operation, maintenance, and replacement costs, such as, debt service and
capital improvement costs.
      (5)   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and
debt service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater
in strength than the concentration values established in §
54.20 .
      (6)   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the
cost of operation, maintenance, and replacement.
      (7)   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied
on all users of the wastewater facilities. The SERVICE CHARGE shall be computed
as outlined in §
54.20 (F) and shall consist of the total or the basic user charge, the local
capital cost and a surcharge, if applicable.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM. The structures, equipment, and processes
required to collect, transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and
dispose of the effluent and accumulated residual solids.
   WATER SYSTEM. All facilities for water supply, filtration plant, storage
reservoirs, water lines, and services and booster stations for obtaining,
treating, and distributing potable water.
   WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE FUND. The bank account to be used for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991; Ord. 693, passed 10-3-1991)
§ 54.08  APPLICATION FOR UTILITY SERVICES.
 
Village of South Jacksonville
Water Department
301 Dewey Drive
S. Jacksonville, IL 62650
217-245-4803
www.southjacksonville.org
 
PRIMARY APPLICATION INFORMATION
 
Name____________________________________________________
                        
Service Address____________________________________________
                     
Closing Date________________ or Rent Start Date_______________
 
Home/Cell_________________ Work__________________________
 
Driver’s License #__________________________________________
 
*There is a $100 security deposit that is due to start services.
 
*Water bills are mailed out the first of the month. If the first falls on a
weekend, water bills will go out a day before or after the first.
 
*Water payments are due on the 15th of month by 5pm. Any bill not paid in full by
that time will assess a late fee on the 16th. If you haven’t received a bill at
least by the tenth feel free to call us, we can let you know your account
balance.
 
*Any bills not paid within 45 days from the issue date will have services shut
off and assess a $100 free to be paid in conjunction with the bill in full for
reconnection of service.
 
I agree to follow all Village of South Jacksonville rules for utility service.
Falsifying information contained in this application is violation of village
ordinances.
 
Signature____________________________   Date_________________
 
RATES
§ 54.20  WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Basis for wastewater service charges.
      (1)   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service
supplied by the wastewater treatment system of the village shall consist of a
basic user charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement.
      (2)   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters and/or wastewater meters for wastes having the following normal
domestic concentrations:
         (a)   A five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD of 200 mg/l);
and
         (b)   A total suspended solids (TSS) content of 250 mg/l.
      (3)   It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus
replacement and shall be computed as follows:
         (a)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of TSS, and pounds of BOD to
be treated annually;
         (b)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories;
         (c)   Compute total annual billable gallons for all sewer customers;
         (d)   Proportion the estimated operation, maintenance, and replacement
(O, M, and R) costs to each user class by volume, total suspended solids, and
BOD;
         (e)   Proportion the estimated O, M, and R costs to wastewater
facility categories by volume, total suspended solids, and BOD;
         (f)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal sewage strength based
on total annual billable gallons; and
         (g)   Compute surcharge costs per pound in excess of normal wastewater
strength for BOD and TSS.
      (4)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the
normal domestic concentrations of BOD (200 mg/l) and TSS (250 mg/l). The
surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or
wastewater meters for all wastes which exceed the 200 mg/l and 250 mg/
l concentration for BOD and TSS respectively.
      (5)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed,
not less often than annually, by certified public accountants for the village
in their annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in operation and maintenance costs including
replacement costs.
      (6)   The users of the wastewater treatment system will be notified
annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of
the user charges which are attributable to the wastewater treatment operation,
maintenance, and replacement.
   (B)   Measurement of flow. The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the
lowest even increments of 100 gallons.
      (1)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures
any part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public water
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the village for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
      (2)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be
required by the village if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from
the metered water consumption records.
      (3)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the village.
   (C)   Basic user rate.
      (1)   The minimum monthly rate for sewer service and all rates for more
than minimum service shall be increased by $5 effective the January 1, 2016,
2017, and 2018 as follows:
         (a)   Effective January 1, 2016, the minimum monthly rate shall be
increased by $5 to $30.16;
         (b)   Effective January 1, 2017, the minimum monthly rate shall be
increased by $5 to $35.16; and
         (c)   Effective January 1, 2018, the minimum monthly rate shall be
increased by $5 to $40.16.
      (2)   All non-metered residential type users of the wastewater facilities
shall pay a minimum flat rate charge per month adequate to cover the minimum
service charge per 2,000 gallons as provided for above. The flat rate charge
will allow a maximum of 2,000 gallons per month.
      (3)   In the event use of the wastewater treatment system is determined
by the village to be in excess of 2,000 gallons per month, the village may
require such flat rate user to install metering devices on the water supply
and/or building sewer to measure the amount of service supplied.
   (D)   Surcharge rate. The rates of surcharges for BOD5 and TSS shall be as
follows:
 
Per lb. of Rate
BOD        $0.2976
TSS        $0.2381
 
   (E)   Computation of surcharge. The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by wastewater sampling. Wastewater
sampling shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the village
and shall be binding as a basis for surcharges.
   (F)   Computation of wastewater service charge. The wastewater service
charge shall be computed by the following formula:
         CW = CM + (Vu-X) (CU+CD) + CS
      Where:
      CW = Amount of waste service charge ($) per billing period
      CM = Minimum charge for administration operation, maintenance and
replacement and debt service (division (C) above)
      Vu = Wastewater volume for the billing period
      X = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge (division (C)
above)
      CU = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement (division
(C) above)
      CD = Additional charges for debt service for consumption in excess of
2,000 gallons per month, (division (C) above)
      CS = Amount of surcharge (divisions (D) and (E) above)
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991; Ord. 994, passed 11-6-2014)
§ 54.21  BILLS.
   (A)   Bills.
      (1)   Said rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly on the
classification of service for which bills are rendered. The owner of the
premises, the occupant thereof, and the user of the service shall be jointly
and severally liable to pay for the service to such premises and the service is
furnished to the premises by the village only upon the condition that the owner
of the premises, occupant, and user of the services are jointly and severally
liable therefor to the village.
      (2)   Bills for wastewater service shall be rendered during the last
working day of each calendar month.
      (3)   All wastewater bills are due and payable on the first day of the
succeeding calendar month. A penalty of 10% shall be added to all bills not
paid by the fifteenth day of such succeeding calendar month.
   (B)   Delinquent bills. If the charges for such services are not paid on or
before the fifteenth day of the month in which the same falls due, such
services shall be considered delinquent. After being delinquent for 60 days,
the service may be discontinued without further notice and shall not be
reinstated until all claims are settled including a $15 reconnection fee.
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991)
§ 54.22  LIENS.
   (A)   Lien; notice of delinquency.
      (1)   Whenever a bill for wastewater service remains unpaid for 30 days
after it has been rendered, the Village Clerk may file with the County Recorder
of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal
description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice
that the village claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges
subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
      (2)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises
and the Village Clerk has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner
of the premises if his or her address be known to the Clerk, whenever such bill
remains unpaid for the period 30 days after it has been rendered.
      (3)   The failure of the Village Clerk to record such lien or to mail
such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the foregoing
section.
   (B)   Foreclosure of lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in
the name of the village. The Village Attorney is hereby authorized to institute
such proceedings in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction
over such matters against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid
45 days after it has been rendered.
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991)
§ 54.23  ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the wastewater treatment
system, and at regular annual intervals he or she shall cause to be made an
audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipt and
disbursements of the wastewater treatment system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
treatment system, including a replacement cost, to indicate that wastewater
service charges do in fact meet these regulations. In this regard, the
financial information to be shown in the audit report shall include the
following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons of wastewater discharged from
collection system for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year;
      (3)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (4)   Number of nonmetered users; and
      (5)   A list of users discharging non-domestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged.
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991)
§ 54.24  NOTICE OF RATES; ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   (A)   Notice of rates. Each user will be notified by the village in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges which are attributable to wastewater treatment services.
   (B)   Access to records. The IEPA or its authorized representative shall
have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the village which
are applicable to the village system of user charges for the purpose of making
audit, examination, excerpts, and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance
with the terms of the State EPA grant.
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991)
§ 54.25  EFFECTIVE DATE OF RATES.
   (A)   The existing rates and service charges as established in this chapter
shall continue in effect until changed by the Village Board.
   (B)   All ordinances adopted prior hereto providing for rates and charges
for sewer service or rules and regulations pertaining thereto are hereby
repealed.
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991)
§ 54.26  APPEALS.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges shall be made available to a user within ten days of receipt of a
written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the
computations thereof shall be remedied by an agreed third party within 60 days
after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991)
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter,
except §
54.05, shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   The village may revoke any permit or cancel any contract or
agreement for wastewater treatment or disposal as a result of any violation of
any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not less than $100 and not more
than $500 for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall occur
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the village for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the
village by reason of such violation. Should there be an exceedance of the
limitations set forth in this chapter which causes the village to incur
additional costs for operation, maintenance, replacement, or fines and
penalties imposed by the city, any court or state or federal agency, the person
shall pay the village twice the amount of any such costs for operation,
maintenance, replacement, fine, or penalty.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
54.05 shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 687, passed 8-15-1991)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
In General
   
70.01   Definitions
Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws
   
70.15   Obedience to police officers
   
70.16   Public officers and employees to obey traffic code; exceptions
   
70.17   Traffic laws apply to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn
vehicles
   
70.18   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer
Traffic Signs, Signals, and Markings
   
70.30   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.32   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.33   Lane-control signals
   
70.34   Flashing signals
   
70.35   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, markings, or advertising signs
   
70.36   Interference with official traffic-control devices or railroad signs or
signals
   
70.37   Unlawful use or damage to highways, appurtenances, and structures
   
70.38   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
70.39   Zones of quiet
   
70.40   No-turning signs and turning markers
   
70.41   Stop and yield signs
 
   
70.99   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
(625 ILCS 5/1-102)
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any U.S. or state numbered route, controlled-access
highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway designated
by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part of a major
arterial system of streets or highways.
(70 ILCS 1205/3-9)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper local
authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the Fire Department; vehicles of a
HazMat or technical rescue team authorized by a county board under § 5-1127 of
the Counties Code (55 ILCS 5/5-1127); ambulances; vehicles of the Illinois
Department of Corrections; vehicles of the Illinois Department of Juvenile
Justice; vehicles of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency; vehicles of the
Office of the Illinois State Fire Marshal; mine rescue and explosives emergency
response vehicles of the Department of Natural Resources; vehicles of the
Illinois Department of Public Health; vehicles of the Illinois State Toll
Highway Authority with a gross vehicle weight rating of 9,000 pounds or more
and those identified as Highway Emergency Lane Patrol; vehicles of the Illinois
Department of Transportation identified as Emergency Traffic Patrol; and
vehicles of a municipal or county emergency services and disaster agency, as
defined by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
(625 ILCS 5/1-105)
   AUTOCYCLE. A three-wheel motor vehicle that has a steering wheel and seating
that does not require the operator to straddle or sit astride it.
(625 ILCS 5/1-104.2)
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two  tandem wheels except scooters and similar devices.
(625 ILCS 5/1-106)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying
more than ten persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-107)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business or
industrial purposes, including but not limited to hotels, banks, or office
buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side, or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-108)
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-
hire or not-for-hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used in a
ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose, or a recreational
vehicle not being used commercially.
(625 ILCS 5/1-111.8)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street, or roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-112)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of a
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with the extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface,
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation as authorized in 625 ILCS 5/11-301.
(625 ILCS 5/1-113)
   DEPARTMENT. Except as otherwise designated, the Department of Transportation
of the State of Illinois.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-116)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two non-
tandem wheeled device designed to transport only one person with an electric
propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of the device to 15 mph or
less.
(625 ILCS 5/1-117.7)
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled.
(625 ILCS 5/1-120)
   FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLE. Any vehicle, bicycle, or electric personal
assistive mobility device that is designated or authorized by proper local
authorities for Fire Department use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-120.7)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in
combination, without load, plus the weight of load thereon.
(625 ILCS 5/1-125)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or located on public school property.
(625 ILCS 5/1-126)
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural, or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers, or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry, provided that no farm wagon,
wagon trailer, or like vehicle having a gross weight of more than 36,000
pounds, shall be included hereunder.
(625 ILCS 5/1-130)
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone, or gravel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-131)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 40 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (3)   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not
constitute an intersection.
(625 ILCS 5/1-132)
   LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL. An official traffic-control device consisting of an
electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a square or rectangular
design, and employing distinctive colors or symbols used to control the
direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the indication
applies.
(625 ILCS 5/1-135)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/1-136)
   LEASE. A written document vesting exclusive possession, use, control, and
responsibility of the lessee during the periods the vehicle is operated by or
for the lessee for a specific period of time.
(625 ILCS 5/1-137)
   LICENSE TO DRIVE. Any driver’s license or any other license or permit to
operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this state including:
      (1)   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
      (2)   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle, whether or
not the person holds a valid license or permit;
      (3)   Any nonresident’s driving privilege as defined herein.
(625 ILCS 5/1-138)
   LIMOUSINE. Any privately owned first division vehicle intended to be used
for the transportation of persons for-hire when the payment is not based on a
meter charge but is prearranged for a designated destination.
(625 ILCS 5/1-139.1)
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, city, village, and other local board or
body having authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the constitution
and laws of this state and each road district Highway Commissioner having that
authority.
(625 ILCS 5/1-140)
   LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals
and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that meets the requirements of one
of the following classes:
      (1)   “Class 1 low-speed electric bicycle” means a low-speed electric
bicycle equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is
pedaling and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed
of 20 mph.
      (2)   “Class 2 low-speed electric bicycle” means a low-speed electric
bicycle equipped with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel the
bicycle and that is not capable of providing assistance when the bicycle
reaches a speed of 20 mph.
      (3)   “Class 3 low-speed electric bicycle” means a low-speed electric
bicycle equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is
pedaling and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed
of 28 mph.
   A LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE is not a moped or a motor driven cycle. 
(625 ILCS 5/1-140.10)
   LOW-SPEED GAS BICYCLE. A two- or three-wheeled device with fully operable
pedals and a gasoline motor of less than one horsepower, whose maximum speed on
a paved level surface, when powered solely by such a motor while ridden by an
operator who weighs 170 pounds, is less than 20 mph.
(625 ILCS 5/1-140.15)
   MAIL. To deposit in the United States mail properly addressed and with
postage prepaid.
(625 ILCS 5/1-141)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power, motorized
wheelchairs, low-speed electric bicycles, and low-speed gas bicycles. For this
section, motor vehicles are divided into two divisions:
      (1)   First division:  motor vehicles designed for carrying not more than
ten persons.
      (2)   Second division:  motor vehicles designed for carrying more than
ten persons, those designed or used for living quarters, and those motor
vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or cargo, and those
motor vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as motor
vehicles of the second division.
(625 ILCS 5/1-146)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than
150 cubic centimeter piston displacement, including motorized pedalcycles.
(625 ILCS 5/1-145.001)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding an autocycle or tractor.
(625 ILCS 5/1-147)
   MOPED. A motor-driven cycle, with or without optional power derived from
manually operated pedals, whose speed attainable in one mile is at least 20 mph
but not greater than 30 mph, and is equipped with a motor that produces two
brake horsepower or less. If an internal combustion engine is used, the
displacement shall not exceed 50 cubic centimeter displacement and the power
drive system shall not require the operator to shift gears.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.2)
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle, including a three-wheeled
vehicle, designed for and used by a person with disabilities, that is incapable
of a speed in excess of eight mph on level ground.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.3)
   MULTIFUNCTION SCHOOL ACTIVITY BUS. A school bus manufactured for the purpose
of transporting 11 or more persons, including the driver, whose purposes do not
include transporting students to and from home or school bus stops. A MFSAB is
prohibited from meeting the special requirements for school buses in 625 ILCS
5/12-801, 12-802(a), 12-803, and 12-805.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.3a-5)
   NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not a commercial vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.6)
   NOT-FOR-HIRE. Operation of a commercial vehicle in furtherance of any
commercial or industrial enterprise, but not-for-hire.
(625 ILCS 5/1-153)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
which conform with the state manual, and not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/1-154)
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement, and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of the motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
(625 ILCS 5/1-155)
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading
merchandise or passengers.
(625 ILCS 5/1-156)
   PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle of the first division, including a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than ten
persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-157)
   PEACE OFFICER. Any person who by virtue of his or her public employment is
vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
(625 ILCS 5/1-157.5)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or wearing in-line speed skates, including a
person with a physical, hearing, or visual disability.
(625 ILCS 5/1-158)
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES. A natural person who, as determined by a licensed
physician, by a licensed physician assistant, or by a licensed advanced
practice registered nurse:
      (1)   Cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace, cane,
crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair, or other assistive
device;
      (2)   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that his or her
forced (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by
spirometry, is less than one liter, or the arterial oxygen tension is less than
60 mm/hg on room air at rest;
      (3)   Uses portable oxygen;
      (4)   Has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person’s functional
limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV, according to
standards set by the American Heart Association;
      (5)   Is severely limited in the person’s ability to walk due to an
arthritic, neurological, oncological, or orthopedic condition;
      (6)   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest because of one of the
above five conditions; or
      (7)   Is missing a hand or arm or has permanently lost the use of a hand
or arm.
(625 ILCS 5/1-159.1)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests and issue citations for violations of traffic regulations.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162)
   POLICE VEHICLE. Any vehicle, bicycle, or electric personal assistive
mobility device that is designated or authorized by proper local authorities
for police use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162.3)
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place where any person transacts his or her
principal business, or where he or she makes up and approves his or her
payroll, maintains a central file of records, and maintains his or her
principal executive offices. In the event that not all of these functions are
performed in one place, then that place where a majority of these functions are
performed, or the place where the person does in fact principally transact and
control his or her business affairs shall be considered as the PRINCIPAL PLACE
OF BUSINESS.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162.5)
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.  Every way or place in private ownership, and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-163)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
(625 ILCS 5/1-166)
   RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING. The intersection of stationary rails owned
or used in the operation of a railroad corporation across a highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-166.1)
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device, other than an official
traffic control signal or device, erected in accordance with the laws governing
same and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the
approach of a railroad train or railroad track equipment.
(625 ILCS 5/1-167)
   RAILROAD TRACK EQUIPMENT. All vehicles operated upon rails for the purpose
of the maintenance of railroads including, but not limited to, all hi-rail
vehicles and on-track roadway maintenance machines, as defined in 49 C.F.R. pt.
214.7.
(625 ILCS 5/1-167.5)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(625 ILCS 5/1-168)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper, or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes, and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
(625 ILCS 5/1-169)
   REGISTRATION. The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates issued under the laws of this state pertaining to the registration of
vehicles.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171)
   REGISTRATION STICKER. A device to be attached to a registration plate that
will renew the registration and registration plate or plates for a
predetermined period, not to exceed one registration year.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171)
   REMOVE. Includes removing, defacing, covering, or destroying.
   RESCUE SQUAD. A voluntary association of individuals, or a fire department,
dedicated to saving lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked
vehicles or other hazardous circumstances, and associated with some unit of
government.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171.6)
   RESCUE VEHICLE. Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, configured, and equipped for the performance of access
and extrication of persons from hazardous or life-endangering situations, as
well as for the emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded, or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171.8)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
      (1)   The territory contiguous to and including a highway, not comprising
a business district, when the property on the highway for a distance of 300
feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
      (2)   For purposes of establishing maximum speed limits, a RESIDENCE
DISTRICT shall be at least a quarter of a mile long with residences or
residences and buildings in use for businesses spaced no more than 500 feet
apart.
(625 ILCS 5/1-172)
   RETAIL SALE. The act or attempted act of selling vehicles or otherwise
disposing of a vehicle to a person for use as a consumer.
(625 ILCS 5/1-174)
   REVOCATION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE. The termination by formal action of the
Secretary, of a person’s license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle on the
public highways, which termination shall not be subject to renewal or
restoration, except that an application for a new license may be presented and
acted upon by the secretary after the expiration of at least one year after the
date of revocation.
(625 ILCS 5/1-176)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision, unless one grants precedence to the other.
(625 ILCS 5/1-177)
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
(625 ILCS 5/1-178)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all the roadways collectively.
(625 ILCS 5/1-179)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(625 ILCS 5/1-181)
   SCHOOL BUS.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in division (2) below,
owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of the entity:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   Any public, private, or religious nursery school.
      (2)   This definition does not include the following:
         (a)   A bus operated by a public utility, municipal corporation, or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when the bus is not traveling a specific school bus route but is:
            1.   On a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare-paying passengers;
            2.   Furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
field trips or other special trips or in connection with special events; or
            3.   Being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or
other educational facilities.
         (b)   A motor vehicle of the First Division; or
         (c)   A multi-function school-activity bus.
(625 ILCS 5/1-182)
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and so constructed its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-187)
   SHOULDER. That portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for
accommodating stopped vehicles or for emergency use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-187.1)
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPEED-CHANGE LANE. An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes.
(625 ILCS 5/1-193)
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
(625 ILCS 5/1-194)
   STATE. A state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a province of the Dominion of
Canada.
(625 ILCS 5/1-195)
   STATE HIGHWAYS. Defined in the Illinois Highway Code as the same may from
time to time be amended.
(625 ILCS 5/1-196)
   STATE POLICE. The Illinois State Police.
(625 ILCS 5/1-197)
   STOP. The complete cessation from movement.
(625 ILCS 5/1-199)
   STOP or STOPPING. Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign
or signal.
(625 ILCS 5/1-200)
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-201)
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. That portion of any city, village, or incorporated town,
other than the business and residence districts.
(625 ILCS 5/1-203)
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right-of-way
to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when those signs are erected as provided in this title.
(625 ILCS 5/1-205)
   TOW TRUCK. Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used to
push, tow, or draw vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar, towline, or
auxiliary axle, or to render assistance to disabled vehicles.
(625 ILCS 5/1-205.1)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-207)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any official traffic-control device other than a
railroad sign or signal, whether manually, electrically, or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to
proceed.
(625 ILCS 5/1-208)
   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.  Any provision of this code or other regulatory
ordinance the purpose of which is to directly control or improve traffic and
safety of both vehicles and pedestrians.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property, and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-209)
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an over-dimension permit when towed on a highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-210.01)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(625 ILCS 5/1-211)
   TRUCK CAMPER. A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is constructed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, travel, or camping use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-211.01)
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn, or a power unit that carries as
property motor vehicles when operating in combination with a semitrailer in
transporting motor vehicles or any other commodity including cargo or general
freight, on a backhaul.
(625 ILCS 5/1-212)
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses,
and situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of one-quarter
mile or more.
(625 ILCS 5/1-214)
   URBAN AREA. An urban area is any incorporated or unincorporated area
developed primarily for residential or business purposes.
(625 ILCS 5/1-214.8)
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device, in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title
under 625 ILCS 5/3-101(d), except devices moved by human power, devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and snowmobiles as defined in the
Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act (625 ILCS 40).
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise prescribed, a
device shall be considered to be a vehicle until such time it either comes
within the definition of a “junk vehicle,” as defined under this section, or a
junking certificate is issued for it.
      (3)   For this section vehicles are divided into two divisions:
         (a)   First division:  those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons;
         (b)   Second division:  those vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten persons; those designed or used for living quarters; those which
are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight, or cargo; those
vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as vehicles of the
second division; and those vehicles of the first division used and registered
as school buses.
(625 ILCS 5/1-217)
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
§ 70.15  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, firefighter, person authorized by the village
to direct traffic, or school crossing guard invested by law with authority to
direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/11-203)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16  PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC CODE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or
operated by the United States, this state, or any county, city, town, district,
or any other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this
section, and subject to specific exceptions as set forth in this title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (C)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions.
   (D)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion, or visual signals meeting the
requirements of 625 ILCS 5/12-215.
   (E)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do these provisions protect the driver from the consequences
of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (F)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles, and equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the highway, but shall apply to such persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from work.
(625 ILCS 5/11-205)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17  TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving an animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights, and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this chapter, except those
provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
(625 ILCS 5/11-206)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18  FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who,
having been given a visual or audible signal by a police officer directing the
driver or operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, willfully fails or
refuses to obey that direction, increases his or her speed, extinguishes his or
her lights, or otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer. The signal
given by the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren, or a red or blue
light. However, the officer giving the signal shall be in police uniform and,
if driving a vehicle, the vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official
police vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS
§ 70.30  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control accordance with this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
   (C)   No provision of this traffic code, for which official traffic-control
devices are required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, the section shall be effective even though no devices are
erected or in place.
   (D)   Whenever any official traffic-control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this traffic code, the
device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority, and comply with the requirements of this traffic
code, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic-control signal on which
no signal light facing the vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
the intersection, in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a
stop sign.
(625 ILCS 5/11-305)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31  TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively one at a time or
in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall
yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by the arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. This vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.32, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway
before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall then start to cross
the roadway.
   (C)   Flashing yellow arrow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a flashing yellow arrow indication may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the
arrow and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a flashing yellow arrow indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.32, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk
that crosses the lane or lanes used to depart the intersection by traffic
controlled by the flashing yellow arrow indication. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
   (D)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(3) and (4), vehicular traffic
facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, or if there is no such crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication to
proceed is shown.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (D)(3) and (4), vehicular traffic
facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the intersection to make the
movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering the intersection to make a
movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line,
but if there is no such stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection, or if there is no such crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication
permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is shown.
      (3)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn and local
authorities by ordinance or state authorities by rule or regulation prohibit
any such turn, vehicular traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously
enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-way street
into a one-way street, after stopping as required by division (D)(1) or (2).
After stopping, the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction or roadways. Such driver shall yield the right of way
to pedestrians within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk.
      (4)   After stopping as required by division (D)(1) or (2), the driver of
a motorcycle or bicycle, facing a steady red signal which fails to change to a
green signal within a reasonable period of time not less than 120 seconds
because of a signal malfunction or because the signal has failed to detect the
arrival of the motorcycle or bicycle due to the vehicle’s size or weight, shall
have the right to proceed, after yielding the right of way to oncoming traffic
facing a green signal, subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign as required by §
70.41.
      (5)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing a steady circular red or red arrow signal alone shall
not enter the roadway.
   (E)   In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their nature can
have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or a marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made or, in the absence of
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(625 ILCS 5/11-306)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32  PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Don’t Walk” or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, these signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   “Walk” or walking person symbol. Pedestrians facing this signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and shall be given
the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don’t walk” or upraised palm signal. No pedestrian shall start to
cross the roadway in the direction of this signal, but any pedestrian who has
partly completed his or her crossing on the “Walk” signal or upraised palm
symbol shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the “Don’t Walk”
signal or upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady, or flashing.
(625 ILCS 5/11-307)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33  LANE-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever lane-control signals are used in conjunction with official signs,
they shall have the following meanings:
   (A)   Downward-pointing green arrow. A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise, he or she shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow
normal safe driving practices.
   (B)   Red X symbol. A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise he or
she shall obey all other traffic controls, and follow normal safe driving
practices.
   (C)   Yellow X (steady). A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   (D)   Flashing yellow arrow. A driver facing this indication may use the
lane only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
(625 ILCS 5/11-308)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34  FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in
conjunction with a traffic-control device, it shall require obedience by
vehicular traffic as follows:
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(625 ILCS 5/11-309)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35  DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS, OR ADVERTISING
SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be,
or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of an official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any traffic-control device to
be used on any street or highway in the village which does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information,
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (F)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection of Illinois
Adopt-A-Highway signs by the village as provided in the Illinois Adopt-A-
Highway Act, 605 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
(625 ILCS 5/11-310)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36  INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS
OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device, or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(625 ILCS 5/11-311)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37  UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES, AND STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure or damage any public
highway or street, or any bridge or culvert, or to willfully damage, injure, or
remove any sign, signpost, or structure upon or used or constructed in
connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof, or for
the protection or regulation of traffic thereon, by any willfully unusual,
improper, or unreasonable use thereof, or by willfully careless driving or use
of any vehicle thereon, or by willful mutilation, defacing, destruction, or
removal thereof.
(625 ILCS 5/11-312)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38  UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   The Village Street Department, with reference to traffic-control signs,
signals, or markers owned by the village, is authorized to indicate the
ownership of the signs, signals, or markers in letters not less than three-
eighths inch, or more than three-quarters inch in height, by use of a metal
stamp, etching, or other permanent means. Except for employees of the Village
Street Department, police officers, contractors and their employees engaged in
a highway construction contract or work on the highway approved by the village,
it is unlawful for any person to possess a sign, signal, or marker so
identified.
(625 ILCS 5/11-313)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39  ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device except in an emergency.
§ 70.40  NO-TURNING SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
sign. When authorized marks, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be travelled by vehicles, no driver of a
vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
§ 70.41  STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs as authorized in 625 ILCS 5/11-302.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle and every motorman of a streetcar approaching
a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no
crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the
point nearest the intersection roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for
safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1204)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 71:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts and ROHVs
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Operation of golf carts and ROHVs
   
71.03   Permits to operate a golf cart
   
71.04   Permit revocation
   
71.05   Posting of signs
   
71.06   Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act
   
71.07   Limited circumstances; state law
   
71.08   Application
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS AND ROHVS
§ 71.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A self-propelled electronically powered or self-propelled
gasoline powered four-wheeled motor vehicle, with bench or bucket seats, which
is not capable of attaining more than 25 mph, and is steered and maneuvered
with a steering wheel.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use or control in any
manner the operation of a golf cart.
   OPERATOR. A person who is at least 18 years of age, who has a valid Illinois
driver’s license, who operates or is in physical control of a golf cart.
   ROHV. A recreational off-highway vehicle, as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-168.8.
(Ord. 1042, passed 4-6-2017)
§ 71.02  OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND ROHVS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to drive or operate a golf cart or an ROHV upon any street, road, alley,
or highway within the village.
   (B)   Golf carts and ROHVs may be operated by a person on streets, roads,
and alleys within the village, if the operator complies with all of the
following requirements and regulations:
      (1)   The golf cart or ROHV must be equipped with the following in good
working order and condition at all times: brakes; brake lights on rear of the
vehicle; a steering wheel; a windshield; tires; a rearview mirror; seatbelts;
horn; a “slow moving vehicle” emblem (as required of other vehicles in 625 ILCS
5/12-709) on the rear of the golf cart; a headlight that emits a white light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front; a tail lamp that emits a red
light visible from at least 100 feet from the rear; brake lights; front and
rear turn signals; red reflector warning devices on the front and rear of the
vehicle; and any additional requirements that may from time to time be required
by the State Motor Vehicle Code;
      (2)   When operated on a street, road, alley, or highway, the golf cart
or ROHV shall, pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/12-201, have its headlight and taillamps
lighted at all times when rain, snow, fog, or other atmospheric conditions
require the use of windshield wipers, and at any other times when, due to
insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles
on the streets, roads, and alleys are not clearly discernible at a distance of
1,000 feet;
      (3)   A golf cart or ROHV may only be operated from 6:00 a.m. until 10:00
p.m.;
      (4)   The operator of a golf cart or ROHV must be at least 18 years of
age and passengers must be at least eight years of age. The operator must
possess a valid Illinois driver’s license and a valid permit to operate a golf
cart or ROHV issued pursuant to §
71.03;
      (5)   The operator of a golf cart or ROHV must operate the golf cart in
compliance with all village ordinances and the provisions of the State Motor
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.) as amended from time to time;
      (6)   A golf cart or ROHV may not be operated at a speed in excess of 25
mph;
      (7)   A golf cart or ROHV may only be operated on streets where the
posted speed limit is 35 mph or less;
      (8)   A golf cart or ROHV may not be operated on sidewalks or other
public property not accessible to or authorized for vehicular traffic;
      (9)   A golf cart or ROHV may not be driven on a state highway; except a
golf cart or ROHV may make a direct crossing over a state highway, municipal
street, county highway, or road district highway if the operator makes a direct
crossing provided: the crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees
to the direction of the street, road, or highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing; the golf cart or ROHV is
brought to a complete stop before attempting a crossing; the operator yields
the right-of-way to all pedestrian and vehicular traffic which constitutes a
hazard; and when crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of the highway with another public street, road, or highway.
      (10)   No person shall operate nor shall any owner permit another person
to operate a golf cart or ROHV on the roads, streets, highways, or alleys
within the village unless the golf cart or ROHV is covered by a liability
insurance policy in compliance with the state’s Safety and Family Financial
Responsibility Law (625 ILCS 5/7-100 et seq.). An insurance card showing
coverage shall be kept in the cart;
      (11)   A person who operates or is in actual physical control of a golf
cart or ROHV on a roadway while under the influence is subject to 625 ILCS 5/
11-501 through 625 ILCS 5/11-502;
      (12)   No other non-highway vehicles as defined in 625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1
shall be operated on any road, street, highway, or alley within the village;
and
      (13)   Each golf or ROHV cart may transport only as many individuals,
eight years of age and older), as is the lesser of the number of seats or as
its manufacturer designates. No individuals may ride on any other portion of
the golf cart.
(Ord. 1042, passed 4-6-2017)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  PERMITS TO OPERATE A GOLF CART.
   (A)   Prior to being allowed to operate a golf cart or ROHV within the
village, the proposed operator of a golf cart or ROHV must apply for a permit
to operate the vehicle and pay an annual fee of  $100. In addition to the
application fee, the applicant shall attach to his or her application (see §
71.08), proof of insurance as required by 625 ILCS 5/7-100 et seq. Further, as
a condition for the insurance or reissuance of a permit, the applicant shall
sign an unconditional and full general release of waiver of liability.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the completed application form, application materials
and fee, the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall conduct an
inspection of the golf cart or ROHV to ensure its compliance with this
subchapter. If the applicant’s completed application and golf cart or ROHV meet
the requirements of this subchapter, a permit to operate a golf cart or ROHV
shall be issued.
   (C)   Permits shall be granted for a period of one year for the date
designated on the permit. Permits shall expire on April 30 of each year. A
permit issued under this subchapter shall be nonassignable or nontransferable.
(Ord. 1042, passed 4-6-2017)
§ 71.04  PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The permit issued pursuant to this subchapter may be revoked by the
Chief of Police, or his or her designee, if: there is any material
misrepresentation made by the applicant on the application; the required
liability insurance is no longer in full force and effect; there is evidence
that the permit holder can no longer safely operate the golf cart; or there has
been a violation to this subchapter.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall issue a notice of
revocation of a permit in writing and either hand-deliver the notice to the
permit holder, or send the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested,
to the permit holder at the address on the application. The revocation of the
permit shall be effective immediately after personal service, or on the third
day after the postmark of the certified mail receipt. The permit holder shall
not be entitled to any portion of the annual fee upon a revocation of the
permit.
(Ord. 1042, passed 4-6-2017)
§ 71.05  POSTING OF SIGNS.
   The village may erect appropriate street signs alerting the public that golf
carts or ROHV may lawfully travel on the roads, streets, and alleys within the
village.
(Ord. 1042, passed 4-6-2017)
§ 71.06  LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL AND GOVERNMENTAL EMPLOYEES TORT IMMUNITY ACT.
   No action by the village under this subchapter or 625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1
designates the operation of a golf cart as an intended and permitted use of
property with respect to § 3-102 of the Local Governmental and Governmental
Employees Tort Immunity Act. The village, in passing this subchapter, is not
advocating or endorsing the use of golf carts or ROHV on village streets. Other
means of travel may be safer than a golf cart or ROHV. All persons who operate
golf carts or ROHVs within the village do so at their own risk and peril. In
passing this subchapter, the village does not accept any level of liability for
accidents, collisions, injuries, death, or destruction of property. In passing
this subchapter, the village is merely regulating the use of golf carts or
ROHVs on village streets, as invited by the law of the state, in an attempt to
increase safety on village streets.
(Ord. 1042, passed 4-6-2017)
§ 71.07  LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES; STATE LAW.
   (A)   (1)   In the event a court of competent jurisdiction declares any
particular provision of this subchapter to be invalid or unenforceable, the
remaining provisions of this subchapter shall be construed to be valid and
enforceable.
      (2)   The invalidity of any part of this subchapter shall not affect any
other part or parts thereof.
   (B)   The village is permitting the use of golf carts on village streets in
limited circumstances and pursuant to current state law. Individuals should
view the use of golf carts on village streets as a program which could be
suspended, modified, or ended at any time and effective immediately upon a
majority vote of the Board of Trustees amending this subchapter, upon a court
ruling, or in the event of a change in the laws of the state or United States
of America. Individuals should consider these factors when making the decision
to purchase golf carts or make potentially expensive upgrades to golf carts.
(Ord. 1042, passed 4-6-2017)
§ 71.08  APPLICATION.
(Ord. 1042, passed 4-6-2017)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating or aiding or abetting the violation of any provisions
of §§
71.01 through
71.08 is guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $100 but
not more than $500 per occurrence. Any second or subsequent offense shall
result in the revocation of the permit for a period of not less than one year.
To the extent that any violation of §§
71.01 through
71.08 also constitutes a violation of a criminal statute of the state, then the
violator shall also be subject to criminal prosecution. Each day a person fails
to comply with the provisions of §§
71.01 through
71.08 constitutes a separate offense. The village shall be entitled to recover
from the violator its reasonable attorney’s fees and court costs associated
with the enforcement of §§
71.01 through
71.08.
(Ord. 1042, passed 4-6-2017)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   General parking regulations
   
72.02   Unattended motor vehicles
Restrictions on Stopping, Standing, and Parking
   
72.15   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.16   Stopping, standing, or parking outside business or residence district
   
72.17   Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for persons with
disabilities
Snow Emergencies
   
72.30   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.31   Termination of emergency
   
72.32   Snow emergency routes
Violations
   
72.45   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   
72.46   Duty of lessor of vehicle on notice of violation of this chapter
 
   
72.99   Penalty
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01  GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close as
practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   (B)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so
stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction
of authorized traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of
the right-hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-
hand shoulder, or with its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or as close as practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   (C)   No angle parking shall be permitted except as set forth by ordinance.
   (D)   No person shall park in violation of signs placed by and under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Transportation which prohibit, limit,
or restrict the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1304)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02  UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Except for a law enforcement officer or an operator of an authorized
emergency vehicle performing his or her official duties, no person driving or
in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without
stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition,
effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any perceptible
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway. An
unattended motor vehicle shall not include an unattended locked motor vehicle
with the engine running after being started by a remote starter system.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1401)  Penalty, see §
72.99
RESTRICTIONS ON STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
§ 72.15  STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or an official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, upon a highway, or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway; or
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station  and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly sign-posted); or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1303)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16  STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park,
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave the vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view
of the stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon the highway.
   (B)   The village, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction or for
the maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway where
in its opinion stopping, standing, or parking is dangerous to those using the
highway, or where stopping, standing, or parking vehicles would unduly
interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon. Any regulations adopted by
the village regarding the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles upon any
specific street, streets, or highways become effective at the time of the
erection of appropriate signs indicating the regulations.
   (C)   This section, and §
72.15 and 625 ILCS 5/11-1304 shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which
is disabled in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid
stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle in that position.
   (D)   Any second division vehicle used exclusively for the collection of
garbage, refuse, or recyclable material may stop or stand on the road in a
business, rural, or residential district for the sole purpose of collecting
garbage, refuse, or recyclable material. The vehicle, in addition to having its
hazard lights lighted at all time that it is engaged in stopping or standing,
shall also use its amber oscillating, rotating, or flashing light or lights as
authorized under 625 ILCS 5/12-215(b)(12), if so equipped.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not properly
displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with disabilities,
as defined by §
70.01, pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2, or to a veteran
with a disability pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-609, as evidence that the vehicle is
operated by or for a person with disabilities or a veteran with a disability,
in any parking place, including any private or public off-street parking
facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an official sign as
designated under 625 ILCS 5/11-301, for motor vehicles displaying such
registration plates. It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle in a
designated access aisle adjacent to any parking place specifically reserved for
persons with disabilities, by the posting of an official sign as designated
under 625 ILCS 5/11-301, for motor vehicles displaying such registration
plates. When using the parking privileges for persons with disabilities, the
parking decal or device must be displayed properly in the vehicle where it is
clearly visible to law enforcement personnel, either hanging from the rearview
mirror or placed on the dashboard of the vehicle in clear view. Disability
license plates and parking decals and devices are not transferable from person
to person. Proper usage of the disability license plate or parking decal or
device requires the authorized holder to be present and enter or exit the
vehicle at the time the parking privileges are being used. It is a violation of
this section to park in a space reserved for a person with disabilities if the
authorized holder of the disability license plate or parking decal or device
does not enter or exit the vehicle at the time the parking privileges are being
used. Any motor vehicle properly displaying a disability license plate or a
parking decal or device containing the international symbol of access issued to
persons with disabilities by any local authority, state, district, territory or
foreign country shall be recognized by state and village authorities as a valid
license plate or device and receive the same parking privileges as residents of
this state.
      (1)   An individual with a vehicle displaying disability license plates
or a parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability
under 625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2 or to a veteran with a
disability under 625 ILCS 5/3-609 is in violation of this section if:
         (a)   The person using the disability license plate or parking decal
or device is not the authorized holder of the disability license plate or
parking decal or device or is not transporting the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device to or from the parking
location; and
         (b)   The person uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license plate
or parking decals or devices under this code.
      (2)   A driver of a vehicle displaying disability license plates or a
parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability under
625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2 or to a veteran with a disability
under 625 ILCS 5/3-609 is in violation of this section if:
         (a)   The person to whom the disability license plate or parking decal
or device was issued is deceased; and
         (b)   The driver uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license plate
or parking decal or device under this code.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(a)–(a)(2))
   (B)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Police Department,
remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by a person with
disabilities which does not display person with disabilities registration
plates or a special decal or device as required under this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(b))
   (C)   The village shall impose fines as established in §
72.99 for violations of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, AUTHORIZED HOLDER means an individual issued
a disability license plate under 625 ILCS 5/3-616, an individual issued a
parking decal or device under 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2 or an individual issued a
license plate for veterans with disabilities under 625 ILCS 5/11-609.
Penalty, see §
72.99
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 72.30  ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Village President finds that falling snow, sleet, or freezing
rain will create a condition which makes it necessary that the parking of motor
vehicles on snow emergency routes be prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on
the basis of a firm forecast of snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the weather
conditions so forecasted may create a condition making it necessary that such
parking be prohibited, he or she is authorized to announce the prohibition, to
become effective at a time specified by him or her. After the effective time of
the prohibition no person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to
remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or
freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Village
President has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency
routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow
emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall. The
prohibition of parking announced by the Village President under the authority
of this section shall remain in effect until he or she announces the
termination of the snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the
prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.31  TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Village President shall find that some or all of the conditions
which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition no longer exist, he or she is
authorized to declare the termination of the emergency, in part or in whole,
effective immediately on announcement. If the announcement is made other than
between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.32  SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW  EMERGENCY  ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the
Village President. On such street or highway designated as a snow emergency
route, special signs shall be posted to this effect.
VIOLATIONS
§ 72.45  OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of §
72.16, the officer is authorized to move the vehicle, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the
roadway.
   (B)   (1)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to a place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing
upon any highway, bridge, causeway, or in a tunnel, or in a position or under
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
      (2)   Whenever the Department finds an abandoned or disabled vehicle
standing upon the paved or main-traveled part of a highway, which vehicle is or
may be expected to interrupt the free flow of traffic on the highway or
interfere with the maintenance of the highway, the Department is authorized to
move the vehicle to a position off the paved or improved or main-traveled part
of the highway.
   (C)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to
the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a highway
when:
      (1)   Report has been made that the vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner;
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of the vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal;
      (3)   The person driving or in control of the vehicle is arrested for an
alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the person
arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay; or
      (4)   The registration of the vehicle has been suspended, canceled, or
revoked.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1302)
§ 72.46  DUTY OF LESSOR OF VEHICLE ON NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases the vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this chapter involving the vehicle, shall upon request provide such police
officers as have authority of the offense, and the court having jurisdiction
thereof, with a written statement of the name and address of the lessee at the
time of the offense and the identifying number upon the registration plates and
registration sticker or stickers of the vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1305)
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be fined as set forth in §
70.99.
   (B)   A violation of any part of §
72.15(A)(1)(h) shall result in a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of
community service.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1303)
   (C)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §
72.17(A) shall be fined $250 in addition to the costs or charges connected with
the removal or storage of any motor vehicle authorized under §
72.17; but the village may, by ordinance, impose a fine up to $350 and shall
display signs indicating the fine imposed. If the amount of the fine is
subsequently changed, the village shall change the sign to indicate the current
amount of the fine. It shall not be a defense to a charge under §
72.17(A) that either the sign posted pursuant to §
72.17(A) or the intended accessible parking place does not comply with the
technical requirements of 625 ILCS 5/11-301, Department regulations, or local
ordinance if a reasonable person would be made aware by the sign or notice on
or near the parking place that the place is reserved for a person with
disabilities.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(c))
      (2)   (a)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §
72.17(A)(1) a first time shall be fined $600. Any person found guilty of
violating §
72.17(A)(1) a second or subsequent time shall be fined $1,000.
         (b)   Any person who violates §
72.17(A)(2) is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined $2,500. The
Circuit Clerk shall distribute 50% of the fine imposed on any person who is
found guilty of or pleads guilty to violating §
72.17(A)(2), including any person placed on court supervision for violating §
72.17(A)(2), to the law enforcement agency that issued the citation or made the
arrest. If more than one law enforcement agency is responsible for issuing the
citation or making the arrest, the 50% of the fine imposed shall be shared
equally. If an officer of the Secretary of State Department of Police arrested
a person for a violation of §
72.17(A)(2), 50% of the fine imposed shall be deposited into the Secretary of
State Police Services Fund.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(c-1))
      (3)   (a)   Any person who commits a violation of §
72.17(A)(1) may have his or her driving privileges suspended or revoked by the
Secretary of State for a period of time determined by the Secretary of State.
         (b)   Any person who commits a violation of §
72.17(A)(2) shall have his or her driving privileges suspended or revoked by
the Secretary of State for a period of time determined by the Secretary of
State.
         (c)   The Secretary of State may also suspend or revoke the disability
license plates or parking decal or device for a period of time determined by
the Secretary of State.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(f))
      (4)   Any police officer may seize the parking decal or device from any
person who commits a violation of §
72.17. Any police officer may seize the disability license plate upon
authorization from the Secretary of State. Any police officer may request that
the Secretary of State revoke the parking decal or device or the disability
license plate of any person who commits a violation of this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(d), (e), (g))
CHAPTER 73:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Parking prohibitions
   
73.03   Parking of large vehicles
   
73.04   Parking motor vehicles on private property
   
73.05   Angle or diagonal parking
   
73.06   Sale or display of merchandise from vehicle
   
73.07   Prohibiting flow of traffic or creating hazardous condition
   
73.08   Time limit parking
   
73.09   Towing and impoundment of vehicles
   
73.10   Presumption of control of illegally parked vehicle
   
73.11   Nuisance vehicles
   
73.12   Traffic violation notice or citation; procedure
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires otherwise.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or extension of curb and property lines at intersections or any
other portion of a roadway clearly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways, which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle whether, occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in the loading or
unloading of merchandise or passengers.
   PARKWAY. That portion of a street between the property line and the roadway
not used for sidewalks.
   PROPERTY LINE. The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots
or property abutting thereon.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway between the regularly
established curb lines or, on streets on which curbs have not been constructed,
that part of a street improved and intended to be used for vehicular travel.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public,
as a matter of right, for purpose of vehicular traffic.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person of property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2019)
§ 73.02  PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any vehicle
to stand at any time in any of the following places, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a
policeman or traffic-control device:
      (1)   In any intersection;
      (2)   In a crosswalk;
      (3)   Within 30 feet or a traffic signal or sign on the approaching side;
      (4)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk;
      (5)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (6)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
      (7)   On any sidewalk or parkway; and
      (8)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   At the direction of police officer. It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle at any time in any of the following places except in compliance with
the direction of a police officer:
      (1)   In any intersection;
      (2)   In a crosswalk;
      (3)   On any sidewalk or parkway;
      (4)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
      (5)   Within 40 feet of a traffic signal or sign on the approaching side;
      (6)   Within 30 feet of any intersection or crosswalk;
      (7)   Within 25 feet of a fire hydrant; and
      (8)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (C)   Restricted parking. Either side, both sides, or any portion of any
street maybe designated as a restricted parking district by the Village Board
and any such restrictions shall be effective for such time as may be designated
by appropriate signs designating the effective time of day such parking
restriction, as well as the duration of time that parking is allowed. Such
designation shall be evidenced by signs or legends or notices on or near the
curbing of the streets or portions thereof where such restriction is to be
effective.
   (D)   Time restrictions. No vehicle shall be parked for any period of time
in excess of the time posted on the officially erected sign or legend or notice
effective for the parking space for which it is erected during the effective
time thereof.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2019)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03  PARKING OF LARGE VEHICLES.
   No person shall park a truck, except those licensed by the state with a B
license classification (8,000 pounds or less), a bus having a rated seating
capacity of 12 or more passengers, farm equipment, construction equipment,
trailers or semi-trailers on any public street within the village, for a period
of four consecutive hours or more.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2019)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04  PARKING MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall park a motor vehicle on private property without the consent
of the owner of the private property.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2019)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05  ANGLE OR DIAGONAL PARKING.
   Except for those streets in the business district where provision for
diagonal or angle parking has been made, no vehicle shall be parked along any
street other than parallel with the street or curb and headed in the direction
of traffic, with the curb-side wheels of the vehicle within six inches of the
edge of the roadway. In no event shall a vehicle be parked headed against the
direction of traffic.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2019)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06  SALE OR DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE FROM VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any street from which
vehicle merchandise is peddled.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2019)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07  PROHIBITING FLOW OF TRAFFIC OR CREATING HAZARDOUS CONDITION.
   In addition to the general restrictions, limitations, and requirements of
this chapter pertaining to all of the streets and thoroughfares of the village,
the parking of vehicles may be prohibited at all times, or between certain
hours, on any street or portion of any street when such parking may impede the
free flow of traffic on such street or create a hazardous condition. No person
shall park a vehicle during the time prohibited at places so indicated by
official signs.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2019)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08  TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   No vehicle shall be parked for any period of time in excess of the time
posted on the officially erected sign or legend or notice effective for the
parking space for which it is erected during the effective time thereof.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2019)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09  TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Police Department is hereby authorized to remove and tow away or
cause to have removed and towed away by any commercial towing service any
vehicle unlawfully parked in any place where such parked vehicle created or
constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks the use of fire hydrant or obstructs the
movement of any emergency vehicle, or any vehicle which has been parked in any
public street or any public place in violation of any provision of this
chapter.
   (B)   Vehicles towed shall either be removed to the municipal building lot
or to the place of business of the commercial towing company, which shall be
known as the vehicle impound. In addition to any fine provided herein, the
owner of any vehicle so towed shall pay the costs of towing and storage upon
retrieval of his or her vehicle.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2019)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10  PRESUMPTION OF CONTROL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   In all cases of parking violations, the registered owner of the vehicle at
the time of the violation, as well as the vehicle itself and the actual
operator thereof, shall be presumed to be a violator.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2019)
§ 73.11  NUISANCE VEHICLES.
   A vehicle parked or occupying any portion of any street or thoroughfare in
violation of the terms of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance
which shall be abated by any police officer by impounding such vehicle, either
by placing a traffic violation notice or citation thereon which shall indicate
the nature of the violation, or by placing such notice thereon and removing and
conveying such vehicle to a vehicle pound. A vehicle pound is declared to be
any suitable place designated to the Police Department as a vehicle pound.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2019)
§ 73.12  TRAFFIC VIOLATION NOTICE OR CITATION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Every police officer issuing a traffic violation notice or citation
shall, by appropriate mark or symbol, identify himself or herself on such
notice as the officer issuing the same, and shall retain and cause to be filed
in the office of the Clerk or of the Village Administrator, a duplicate of such
traffic violation notice. The traffic violation notice or citation itself shall
be left with the owner or operator of the vehicle if known, or placed in or
affixed to the vehicle if the owner or operator is not present.
   (B)   The owner or authorized operator of any impounded vehicle may have the
vehicle removed from impoundment by paying the penalties imposed by this
chapter. If for such violation as an impounding fee plus all costs and expenses
that have been incurred for the towage and storage of such vehicle, plus all
impounding fees, towage and storage charges which have theretofore accrued
against such vehicle during the time of his or her ownership thereof.
   (C)   The owner or driver of any vehicle issued a traffic notice, or
citation for violating any of the provisions of this chapter may avoid
prosecution for such violation by paying within seven days of the time of the
issuance of such notice or citation at the Village Hall the sum of $50 in
addition to any towage, storage, or impounding fees or charges, if any, and by
surrendering to the Village Clerk or his or her designee the traffic violation
notice or citation delivered to him or her or placed upon such vehicle, after
indicating thereon his or her name, street address, and place of residence.
   (D)   If such owner or driver fails to pay the designated amount described
in division (C) above within seven days of such violation, he or she may
thereafter avoid prosecution of the violation only by paying the sum of $60.
   (E)   The Village Clerk or his or her designee, upon receipt of the payment
or any sum of money by a violator charged with violating any provision of this
chapter, shall issue to such person a receipt therefore, on an official receipt
form of the village, bearing the signature of the person receiving the fine on
behalf of the village, and the date of its payment. A duplicate receipt,
together with the money paid to village shall be delivered to the Village
Treasurer who shall credit the funds to the appropriate fund of the village
(Ord. passed 8-1-2019)
§ 73.99  PENALTY
   The owner or driver of any vehicle charged with violating any term of this
chapter who shall fail to pay the provided hereinabove to avoid prosecution for
this offense when a traffic violation or citation has been issued, shall be
prosecuted for violation this chapter, and shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $50 nor more than $100 for a single offense.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2019)
CHAPTER 74:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   Prohibited parking, standing, stopping; time limit; parking during school
hours
   
II.   Fire lanes
   
III.   Snow routes
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING, STANDING, STOPPING; TIME LIMIT; PARKING DURING
SCHOOL HOURS.
   For the purpose of this schedule, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK. Standing vehicles, whether occupied or not, for a period of time
greater than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of
persons or cargo.
   STANDING. The stationary position of any vehicle.
   STOPPING. The cessation of forward or backward movement of vehicles.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
Street/Location Direction(s)/ Side(s) Penalty Specific Provision(s)
                                                              Direction             Specific
Street/Location                                               (s)/ Side Penalty     Provision(s)
                                                              (s)
Birdsell Court                                                Both      -           No parking
                                                              sides
Clay Avenue between Greenwood Avenue and Vandalia Avenue      East side Fine of $25 No parking
                                                                                    No parking;
                                                                                    restriction
                                                                                    applies
                                                                                    between the
                                                                                    hours of 2:
                                                                                    00 p.m. to
                                                                                    3:00 p.m.,
                                                                                    inclusive on
Dewey Drive between the point where the north right-of-way              Not less    any days
line of Dewey Drive intersects with the east right-of-way     North     than $25    that South
line of South West Street and the west right-of-way lines of  half      nor more    Jacksonville
South Main Street                                                       than $100   School
                                                                                    located at
                                                                                    the
                                                                                    intersection
                                                                                    of Dewey
                                                                                    Drive and
                                                                                    South West
                                                                                    Streets is
                                                                                    in session
                                                                        Not less
Dewey Drive from 67.1 meters (220 feet) west of South Main    -         than $50    No parking
Street to South Main Street                                             nor more
                                                                        than $100
                                                                                    No parking;
                                                                                    restriction
                                                                                    applies
                                                                                    during the
                                                                                    hours
                                                                                    between 3:00
                                                                                    p.m. and 4:
                                                                        No less     00 p.m. when
Dewey Drive from the intersection of South West Street and    South     than $5 nor South
Dewey Drive and extending 40 feet from the northeast corner   side      more than   Jacksonville
shall be limited to 2 lanes on the south side of said street            $100        Public
                                                                                    School is in
                                                                                    session;
                                                                                    stopping or
                                                                                    standing
                                                                                    permitted
                                                                                    when
                                                                                    vehicles
                                                                                    attended
East Michigan Avenue from a point commencing at the east                Not less
sidewalk line on South Main Street to a point 120 feet east   South     than $5 nor No parking
thereof                                                       side      more than
                                                                        $100
                                                                                    No parking;
                                                                                    restriction
                                                                                    applies
                                                                        Not less    between 8:00
Gibson Street from Vandalia Road to a point 70 feet south     Both      than $5 nor a.m. and 4:
thereof                                                       sides     more than   30 p.m.
                                                                        $25         every day
                                                                                    but Sunday
                                                                                    and legal
                                                                                    holidays
                                                                        Not less
Greenwood Avenue from 79.3 meters (260 feet) west to 76.2     -         than $50    No parking
meters (250 feet) east of South Main Street                             nor more
                                                                        than $100
Greenwood Avenue in the area beginning at a point 180 feet              Not less
east of the centerline of South Main Street, then east 26     North     than $5 nor No parking
feet                                                          side      more than
                                                                        $25
                                                                                    No parking;
                                                                                    restriction
                                                                                    applies
                                                                        Not less    between 8:00
Hardin Avenue between Vandalia Road and Lake Street           Both      than $5 nor a.m. and 4:
                                                              sides     more than   30 p.m.
                                                                        $25         every day
                                                                                    but Sunday
                                                                                    and legal
                                                                                    holidays
                                                                                    No parking
                                                                                    after the
Hardin Avenue from East Vandalia Road north to East Michigan  East                  completion
Avenue                                                        side/     -           of the
                                                              West side             improvements
                                                                                    mentioned in
                                                                                    Ord. 963
Hardin Avenue in the area beginning at the intersection of              Not less
the south right-of-way line of Greenwood Avenue and the west  West side than $5 nor No parking
right-of-way line of Hardin Avenue and extending to a point             more than
100 feet south of said beginning point                                  $25
Labor Drive, from the entrance at its intersection with West  East
Vandalia 90 feet south                                        side/     -           No parking
                                                              West side
                                                                        Not less
Labor Drive on the inside curb of the portion which makes a   -         than $25    No parking
complete circle                                                         nor more
                                                                        than $100
                                                              South     Not less
Labor Drive on the portion which exits to the west at         side/     than $25    No parking
approximately the midpoint of the circle in Labor Drive       East side nor more
                                                                        than $100
                                                                                    No parking;
                                                                                    restriction
                                                                                    applies
                                                                        Not less    between 8:00
Lake Street between Hardin Avenue and Lakeview Street         Both      than $5 nor a.m. and 4:
                                                              sides     more than   30 p.m.
                                                                        $25         every day
                                                                                    but Sunday
                                                                                    and legal
                                                                                    holidays
                                                                                    No parking;
                                                                                    restriction
                                                                                    applies
                                                                        Not less    between 8:00
Lakeview Street between Lake Street and Vandalia Road         Both      than $5 nor a.m. and 4:
                                                              sides     more than   30 p.m.
                                                                        $25         every day
                                                                                    but Sunday
                                                                                    and legal
                                                                                    holidays
Love’s Drive (200 block) between Magnolia Drive and Holiday -         -           No parking
Lane
                                                                        Guilty of a
                                                                        misdemeanor
                                                                        and fined
Main Street from a point 200 feet north of Vandalia to a                not less
point 700 feet south of Vandalia                              -         than $15    No parking
                                                                        nor more
                                                                        than $25
                                                                        for each
                                                                        offense
                                                                        Not less
Michigan Avenue between Hardin Avenue and the Gulf, Mobile    South     than $5 nor No parking
and Ohio Railroad tracks                                      side      more than
                                                                        $25
                                                                                    No parking;
                                                                                    exception
                                                                                    for the
                                                                                    offset
                                                                                    parking lane
                                                                        Not less    on the north
Michigan Avenue from 171 meters (561 feet) west to 148.4                than $50    side of the
meters (487 feet) east of South Main Street                   -         nor more    street from
                                                                        than $100   83.8 meters
                                                                                    (275 feet)
                                                                                    west to 38.1
                                                                                    meters (125
                                                                                    feet) west
                                                                                    of South
                                                                                    Main Street
                                                                                    Parking will
                                                                                    be
                                                                                    prohibited,
                                                                                    after the
                                                                                    completion
                                                                                    of the
                                                                                    improvement,
                                                                        Not less    on the
                                                                        than $50    pavement and
South Main Street                                             -         nor more    shoulders
                                                                        than $50    and anywhere
                                                                                    within the
                                                                                    street
                                                                                    right-of-
                                                                                    way, located
                                                                                    within the
                                                                                    limits of
                                                                                    the
                                                                                    improvement
                                                              East      Not less
South Main Street between its intersection with Dewey Drive   side/     than $5 nor No parking
and Vandalia Avenue                                           West side more than
                                                                        $25
South Main Street between the intersection of the north                 Not less
right-of-way line of Pennsylvania Avenue with the said South  West side than $5 nor No parking
Main Street and the intersection of the south right-of-way              more than
line of Michigan Avenue with the said South Main Street                 $25
South Main Street from 44.3 meters (145.34 feet) south of the           Not less
centerline of Woods Drive northerly to 209.45 meters (687.17  -         than $50    No parking
feet) north of the centerline of Southland Park Drive                   nor more
                                                                        than $75
                                                                        Not less
South Main Street from the north corporate limits to the      -         than $50    No parking
south corporate limits                                                  nor more
                                                                        than $100
South Main Street in the area lying south of the intersection East      Not less
of the south line of Michigan Avenue with South Main Street   side/     than $5 nor No parking
and north of the intersection of the north line of Vandalia   West side more than
Avenue with South Main Street                                           $25
                                                                                    No parking,
                                                                                    stopping, or
                                                                                    standing;
                                                                                    restriction
                                                                                    applies
                                                                        No less     during the
South West Street and Dewey Drive intersection and extending            than $5 nor hours
40 feet from the northeast corner of said intersection        -         more than   between 3:00
                                                                        $100        p.m. and 4:
                                                                                    00 p.m. when
                                                                                    South
                                                                                    Jacksonville
                                                                                    Public
                                                                                    School is in
                                                                                    session
                                                                        Guilty of a
                                                                        misdemeanor
                                                                        and fined
Vandalia between its intersection with Village Lane and its   South     not less
intersection with South Diamond Street                        side      than $15    No parking
                                                                        nor more
                                                                        than $25
                                                                        for each
                                                                        offense
                                                                                    No parking;
                                                                                    restriction
                                                                                    applies
                                                                        Not less    between 8:00
Vandalia Road between Hardin Avenue and the Gulf, Mobile and  Both      than $5 nor a.m. and 4:
Ohio Railroad tracks                                          sides     more than   30 p.m.
                                                                        $25         every day
                                                                                    but Sunday
                                                                                    and legal
                                                                                    holidays
                                                                        Not less
Vandalia Road from Labor Drive to 143.3 meters (470 feet)     West side than $50    No parking
east of Main Street                                                     nor more
                                                                        than $100
Vandalia Road in the area commencing at the northeast corner            Not less    Parking
of the intersection of Vandalia Road with Hardin Avenue and   North     than $10    limited to 2
extending east to a point 50 feet west of the Gulf, Mobile    side      nor more    hours
and Ohio Railroad tracks                                                than $200
                                                                                    No parking;
                                                                                    restriction
                                                                                    applies
                                                                                    during the
                                                                                    hours
                                                                                    between 3:00
                                                                                    p.m. and 4:
                                                                                    00 p.m. when
                                                                                    South
                                                                                    Jacksonville
                                                                                    Public
                                                                                    School is in
                                                                                    session,
                                                                                    except for 2
                                                                                    lanes on the
                                                                                    east side of
                                                                        No less     South West
                                                                        than $5 nor Street which
Vandalia Road on South Street to the fire station             -         more than   portion of
                                                                        $100        said street
                                                                                    shall be
                                                                                    used only
                                                                                    for vehicles
                                                                                    loading
                                                                                    students,
                                                                                    and provided
                                                                                    further that
                                                                                    parking,
                                                                                    stopping, or
                                                                                    standing of
                                                                                    vehicles in
                                                                                    the outside
                                                                                    lane is
                                                                                    prohibited
                                                                                    unless the
                                                                                    vehicle is
                                                                                    attended
                                                                        Guilty of a
                                                                        misdemeanor
                                                                        and fined
Vandalia within 200 feet of the intersection of South Main              not less
and Vandalia Street                                           -         than $15    No parking
                                                                        nor more
                                                                        than $25
                                                                        for each
                                                                        offense
                                                                        No less     No parking;
                                                                        than $5 nor prohibited
Village Fire House to South West Street and Dewey Drive       East side more than   even if the
                                                                        $100        vehicle is
                                                                                    attended
West Greenwood Avenue in the area beginning at the            North     Not less
intersection of Greenwood Avenue with the westerly right-of-  side/     than $5 nor
way line of South Main Street and extending to a point 150    South     more than   No parking
feet west of said westerly right-of-way line of South Main    side      $25
Street
                                                                                    No parking,
                                                                                    stopping, or
                                                                                    standing;
                                                                                    restriction
West Street from a point commencing 55 feet north of the                Not less    applies from
sidewalk leading into the west entrance of the South                    than $5 nor the hours of
Jacksonville Elementary School, thence south a distance of    East side more than   8:00 a.m. to
100 feet                                                                $100        9:00 a.m.
                                                                                    and 3:00
                                                                                    p.m. to 4:00
                                                                                    p.m.; school
                                                                                    buses are
                                                                                    excepted
West Street from a point commencing 55 feet north of the                Not less
sidewalk leading into the west entrance of the South          East side than $5 nor No stopping
Jacksonville Elementary School, thence south a distance of              more than   or standing
100 feet                                                                $100
                                                                                    No parking;
                                                                                    restriction
                                                                                    applies from
West Street from a point commencing 55 feet north of the                            the hours of
sidewalk leading into the west entrance of the South                                8:00 a.m. to
Jacksonville Elementary School, thence south to a point where East side -           9:00 a.m.
said West Street intersections with Vandalia Road                                   and 3:00
                                                                                    p.m. to 4:00
                                                                                    p.m.; school
                                                                                    buses are
                                                                                    excepted
West Street from a point commencing at the southwest corner
of the intersection with West Street with Dewey Drive         West side -           No parking
extending south a distance of 300 feet
                                                                        Not less
West Street in front of Village Hall and fire station         West side than $5 nor No stopping
                                                                        more than   No standing
                                                                        $400
                                                                                    One hour
                                                                                    parking;
                                                                                    restriction
                                                                                    applies from
West Vandalia Road (200 block) between Village Lane and West  North     -           the hours of
Street                                                        side                  8:00 a.m. to
                                                                                    4:00 p.m.,
                                                                                    Monday
                                                                                    through
                                                                                    Friday
 
(Ord. 246, passed 7-5-1956; Ord. 250, passed 9-20-1956; Ord. 252, passed 2-7-
1957; Ord. 261, passed 8-22-1957; Ord. 295A, passed 2-8-1962; Ord. 344, passed
9-1-1966; Ord. 367, passed 8-1-1968; Ord. 380, passed 3-5-1970; Ord. 381,
passed 3-19-1970; Ord. 427, passed - -; Ord. 454, passed 2-6-1975; Ord. 462,
passed 7-3-1975; Ord. 475, passed 9-2-1976; Ord. 582, passed 2-3-1983; Ord.
585, passed 4-7-1983; Ord. 593, passed 10-20-1983; Ord. 606, passed 8-2-1984;
Ord. 637, passed 11-20-1986; Ord. 648, passed 2-4-1988; Ord. 661, passed 2-16-
1989; Ord. 684, passed 1-3-1991; Ord. 731, passed 4-21-1994; Ord. 809, passed
10-7-1999; Ord. 882, passed 11-4-2004; Ord. 953, passed 10-6-2011; Ord. 963,
passed 6-7-2012; Ord. 1070, passed 10-4-2018; Ord. 1072, passed 11-1-2018)
SCHEDULE II. FIRE LANES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on the west half of South
West Street between the point where said street intersects with the north
right-of-way line of West Vandalia Road and a point 500 feet north of said
intersection.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on the east half of South
West Street between the point where said street intersects with the north line
of Dewey Drive and the south line of West Greenwood Avenue.
   (C)   The foregoing areas wherein parking of vehicles is prohibited are
hereby declared to be “Fire Lanes” and no one shall permit anything to exist
within said areas that will obstruct or impede the movement of firefighting
equipment within the same.
   (D)   Signs indicating such restricted parking shall be erected at and
within the limits of said areas.
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
schedule shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each violation
of this schedule. This schedule shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage, approval, and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 453, passed 2-6-1975)
SCHEDULE III. SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   The following streets shall be designated as snow routes: East
Greenwood; West Greenwood; East Vandalia; West Vandalia; South Diamond; Lincoln
Avenue; and Hardin Avenue.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park or
allow to remain a motor vehicle, or any other vehicle, on any of the
aforementioned streets in the village for a period of 24 hours, or until said
streets have been cleared of snow, whenever there is an accumulation of three
or more inches of snow.
   (C)   Any person violating this schedule shall be instructed to move his or
her vehicle promptly off the street. Failure to move vehicle promptly may
result in vehicle being towed at owner’s expense or a penalty of $50 will be
enforced. This will be paid to the Village Clerk within seven days from date of
such notice. In the event that such payment is not made within the time period
prescribed, a complaint shall be initiated by the Village Attorney before a
court of proper jurisdiction charging such offense.
   (D)   This schedule shall be called into operation by the Village President
with the advice of the Superintendent of Streets. However, in the Village
President’s absence, the Superintendent of Streets and the Chief of Police
shall call the schedule into effect. If the President and the Superintendent of
Streets are absent, the Chief of Police shall call the schedule into effect.
(Ord. 783, passed 10-2-1997)
CHAPTER 75:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Traffic direction
      
II.   Stop and yield right-of-way intersections
      
III.   School traffic
      
IV.   Speed limits
      
V.   Traffic-control devices
      
VI.   Through streets
      
VII.   Lane usage
      
VIII.   Weight limitations
      
IX.   Golf/ROHV crossings
SCHEDULE I. TRAFFIC DIRECTION.
Street/Location Direction Penalty Specific Provisions
Street/Location     Direction           Penalty            Specific Provisions
Dewey Drive and
South West Street
between the                                                Restriction is in
intersection of the                                        effect between the
north right-of-way                                         hours of 2:00 p.m.
line of Dewey Drive                                        and 3:00 p.m. on any
with the centerline                     Not less than $50  day that South
of South West       West and south      nor more than $100 Jacksonville School
Street and the                          plus costs         located at the
intersection of                                            intersection of
said South West                                            Dewey Drive and
Street with the                                            South West Street is
north right-of-way                                         in session
line of West
Vandalia Road
Dewey Drive between
the intersection of                                        Restriction is in
the south right-of-                                        effect between the
way line thereof                                           hours of 2:00 p.m.
with the centerline                                        and 3:00 p.m. on any
of South West                           Not less than $50  day that South
Street and the      East                nor more than $100 Jacksonville School
intersection of                         plus costs         located at the
said Dewey Drive                                           intersection of
with the west                                              Dewey Drive and
right-of-way line                                          South West Street is
of South Main                                              in session
Street
Dewey Drive between                                        Restriction applies
the intersection of                                        between the hours of
the south right-of-                                        7:30 a.m. and 8:00
way line thereof                                           a.m. and between the
with the centerline                                        hours of 2:00 p.m.
of South West                           Not less than $50  and 3:00 p.m. on any
Street and the      East                nor more than $100 day that South
intersection of                         plus costs         Jacksonville School
said Dewey Drive                                           located at the
with the west                                              intersection of
right-of-way line                                          Dewey Drive and
of South Main                                              South West Street is
Street                                                     in session
                                                           Restrictions in
                                                           effect between the
                                        Not less than $50  hours of 3:00 p.m.
Dewey Drive to      East                nor more than $100 and 4:00 p.m. on
South Main Street                       plus costs         each and every day
                                                           that the South
                                                           Jacksonville Public
                                                           School is in session
                                                           Traffic entering the
                                                           circular drive on
Labor Drive around  South on west side  Not less than $50  the west side
the circle          of circle and north nor more than $100 thereof may proceed
                    on east side        plus costs         in either a
                                                           northerly or
                                                           southerly direction
                                                           Restrictions in
South West Street                                          effect between the
beginning with                          Not less than $50  hours of 3:00 p.m.
Vandalia Road and   North               nor more than $100 and 4:00 p.m. on
continuing to Dewey                     plus costs         each and every day
Drive                                                      that the South
                                                           Jacksonville Public
                                                           School is in session
                                                           Restriction applies
                                                           between the hours of
                                                           7:30 a.m. and 8:00
                                                           a.m. and between the
South West Street                                          hours of 2:00 p.m.
between West                            Not less than $50  and 3:00 p.m. on any
Vandalia Road and   North               nor more than $100 day that South
West Greenwood                          plus costs         Jacksonville School
Avenue                                                     located at the
                                                           intersection of
                                                           Dewey Drive and
                                                           South West Street is
                                                           in session
 
(Ord. 295A, passed 2-8-1962; Ord. 455, passed 2-6-1975; Ord. 648, passed 2-4-
1988; Ord. 656, passed 8-18-1988)
SCHEDULE II. STOP AND YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop intersections.
Street Location/Intersection Type of stop Direction Penalty
Street             Location/          Type of stop Direction Penalty
                   Intersection
                   at East Vandalia   -            -         Not less than $50
All streets        Street                                    nor more than $100
                   at Main Street     -            -         Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
Belmont            at West Vandalia   1-way        S         Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
Bonnie Lane        at Greenwood       1-way        N         Not less than $50
                   Avenue                                    nor more than $100
Chilton Street     at Greenwood       -            -         Not less than $50
                   Avenue                                    nor more than $100
Clay               at Greenwood       -            -         Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
Coronado Street    at South Diamond   -            -         Not less than $50
                   Street                                    nor more than $100
Diamond Street     at West Greenwood  -            N/S       Not less than $50
                   Avenue                                    nor more than $100
                   at Hardin Avenue   -            -         Not less than $50
East Greenwood                                               nor more than $100
Avenue             at South Clay      4-way        -         Not less than $50
                  Street                                    nor more than $100
                   at South East      4-way        -         Not less than $50
                   Street                                    nor more than $100
                   at Hardin Avenue   -            -         Not less than $50
East Michigan                                                nor more than $100
Avenue             at South Clay      -            -         Not less than $50
                   Avenue                                    nor more than $100
Elmwood Street     at Greenwood       -            -         Not less than $50
                   Avenue                                    nor more than $100
                   at Hardin Avenue   -            -         Not less than $50
Greenwood                                                    nor more than $100
                   at South East      -            -         Not less than $50
                   Street                                    nor more than $100
Hall Drive         at South Diamond   -            -         Not less than $50
                   Street                                    nor more than $100
Hamilton Drive     at West Vandalia   1-way        N         Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
Hardin Avenue      at Michigan Avenue 4-way        -
Holliday Lane      at Whewell Drive   4-way        N/S/E/W   Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
Labor Drive        at Vandalia Road   -            -         Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
                   at Hardin Avenue   -            -         Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
Lake Street        at Lakeview        1-way        E         Not less than $50
                   Terrace                                   nor more than $100
                   at South Clay      -            -         Not less than $50
                   Avenue                                    nor more than $100
                   at Hardin Avenue   -            -         Not less than $50
Laurel Drive                                                 nor more than $100
                   at South Clay      -            -         Not less than $50
                   Avenue                                    nor more than $100
Linden             at West Vandalia   1-way        S         Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
                   at Minor Drive     2-way        N/S       Not less than $50
Magnolia Drive                                               nor more than $100
                   at Whewell Drive   3-way        N/S/W     Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
                   at Clay Street     4-way        All       Not less than $50
Michigan Street                                              nor more than $100
                   at South East      4-way        All       Not less than $50
                   Street                                    nor more than $100
Nita Lane          at West Vandalia   1-way        S         Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
North Laurel Drive at Hardin Avenue                          Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
Ogden Road         at South Diamond   -            -         Not less than $50
                   Street                                    nor more than $100
Orlando Street     at Greenwood       1-way        N         Not less than $50
                   Avenue                                    nor more than $100
Orlando Street     at Hall Drive      4-way        N/S/E/W   Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
                   at South Clay      -            -         Not less than $50
Pennsylvania       Avenue                                    nor more than $100
Avenue             at South East      -            -         Not less than $50
                   Street                                    nor more than $100
Sandy Street       at Dewey Drive     -            -         Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
                   at Minor Drive     1-way        N         Not less than $50
Sequoia Drive                                                nor more than $100
                   at West Vandalia   2-way        N/S       Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
South Diamond      at West Michigan   -            S/W       Not less than$50
Street             Street                                    nor more than $100
South Main Street, at West Greenwood  -            -         Not less than $50
Any street west of Avenue                                    nor more than $100
                   at Pennsylvania    -            -         Not less than $50
South West Street  Avenue                                    nor more than $100
                   at West Vandalia   1-way        S         Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
Southland Park     at South Main      -            -         Not less than $50
Drive              Street                                    nor more than $100
                   at Dewey Drive     -            -         Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
                   at Greenwood       -            -         Not less than $50
                   Avenue                                    nor more than $100
Village Lane       at Michigan Avenue -            -         Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
                   at Pennsylvania    -            -         Not less than $50
                   Avenue                                    nor more than $100
                   at Vandalia Road   -            -         Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
West Greenwood     at South Diamond   4-way        -         Not less than $50
Avenue             Avenue                                    nor more than $100
West Michigan      at Lincoln Avenue  3-way        N/E/W     Not less than $50
Avenue                                                       nor more than $100
West Pennsylvania  at South Diamond   -            -         Not less than $50
Avenue             Street                                    nor more than $100
Whewell Drive      at South Main      1-way        E         Not less than $50
                   Street                                    nor more than $100
Willow             at Minor Drive     2-way        N/S       Not less than $50
                                                             nor more than $100
 
   (B)   Yield right-of-way intersections.
Location/Intersection and Yield Direction Penalty
Location/Intersection and Yield Direction  Penalty
All traffic along South Main Street shall
have the right-of-way over vehicles
approaching along intersecting streets,
alleys, or private ways( every person
operating a motor vehicle, motor bicycle,
or other vehicle approaching South Main
Street in said village along any
intersecting street, alley, or private     Fined in a sum not to exceed $100
driveway, shall use extreme care and
caution before turning into and upon said
South Main Street, and if necessary to
prevent endangering the life or limb, or
the property of any person, shall come to
a full stop before entering into or upon
said South Main Street)
Eastbound traffic on the first street
intersecting Laborers Drive south of       Not less than $50 nor more than $100
Vandalia Road yields to northbound and
southbound traffic on Laborers Drive
Northbound and southbound traffic on
Village Lane yields to West Pennsylvania   Not less than $50 nor more than $100
Avenue
Northbound and southbound traffic on
Village Lane yields to West Greenwood      Not less than $50 nor more than $100
Avenue
Northbound traffic on South Church Street  Not less than $50 nor more than $100
yields to West Michigan Avenue
Northbound traffic on South West Street    Not less than $50 nor more than $100
yields to West Michigan Avenue
Northbound traffic on the east side of the
circle in Labor Drive yields to all        Not less than $50 nor more than $100
northbound traffic on the west side of the
circle in Labor Drive
Westbound traffic on Greenwood Street      Not less than $50 nor more than $100
yields to Lincoln Avenue
Westbound traffic on Pendick Street yields Not less than $50 nor more than $100
to South Diamond Avenue
Westbound traffic on Southville Street     Not less than $50 nor more than $100
yields to South Diamond Avenue
 
(Ord. 83, passed 6-1-1927; Ord. 203, passed 4-2-1952; Ord. 207, passed 9-3-
1952; Ord. 224, passed 3-18-1954; Ord. 227, passed 5-6-1954; Ord. 244, passed
11-17-1955; Ord. 248, passed 7-5-1956; Ord. 346, passed 9-1-1966; Ord. 385,
passed 8-6-1970; Ord. 400, passed 1-6-1972; Ord. 429, passed 5-17-1973; Ord.
557, passed 1-22-1981; Ord. 560, passed 6-4-1981; Ord. 570, passed 12-17-1981;
Ord. 574, passed 3-4-1982; Ord. 648, passed 2-4-1988; Ord. 675, passed 1-18-
1990; Ord. 719, passed 6-3-1993; Ord. 728, passed 4-21-1994; Ord. 739, passed
9-15-1994; Ord. 779, passed 9-4-1997; Ord. 787, passed 2-5-1998; Ord. 788,
passed 2-5-1998; Ord. 789, passed 2-5-1998; Ord. 799, passed 3-4-1999; Ord.
904, passed 6-7-2007; Ord. 906, passed 9-6-2007; Ord. 1006, passed 8-6-2015;
Ord. 1027, passed 8-4-2016; Ord. 1052, passed 10-5-2017; Ord. 1065, passed 4-5-
2018)
SCHEDULE III. SCHOOL TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Traffic at school traffic light.
      (1)   All traffic proceeding north or south on South Main Street shall
observe and obey the traffic control signal at the intersection of Dewey Drive
with South Main Street. All vehicles shall come to a complete stop before
entering the crosswalk when the signal is flashing red intermittently; when the
signal is flashing yellow, all motor vehicles will proceed with caution through
said intersection and crosswalk.
      (2)   All persons violating this division (A) shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100 for each offense.
   (B)   During the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. on each and every day that
the South Jacksonville Public School is in session:
      (1)   All traffic shall proceed in one direction only, and that being
north on South West Street in the village beginning with Vandalia Road and
continuing to Dewey Drive and east on Dewey Drive to South Main Street, all in
the village;
      (2)   All traffic shall proceed in one direction only, and that being
south on South West Street beginning with West Greenwood Avenue and continuing
to Dewey Drive and from South West Street and Dewey Drive East, and east only,
to South Main Street, all in the village; and
      (3)   Any person or persons violating any provision of this division (B)
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined no less than $50 nor more than $100
for each offense.
   (C)   (1)   The portion of West Michigan Avenue lying west of the west
right-of-way line of Tendick Street and extending to the east right-of-way line
of Lincoln Avenue is hereby established a school zone and it shall be unlawful
for any person to drive a motor vehicle in such zone at a speed greater than 20
mph on school days when children are present.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
division (C) shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100 for each
offense.
(Ord. 251, passed 10-4-1956; Ord. 295A, passed 2-8-1962; Ord. 333, passed 10-7-
1965; Ord. 626, passed 3-6-1986)
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS.
Location Speed Limit (mph) Penalty Special Provisions
Location             Speed Limit (mph) Penalty            Special Provisions
Dewey Drive between
West Greenwood       20                Not less than $50
Avenue and Vandalia                    nor more than $100
Road
Labor Drive          20                Not less than $50
                                       nor more than $100
Minor Drive in the
area extending from
the west right-of-   30                Not less than $50
way line of Route 67                   nor more than $100
westward to the
village limits
South Main Street
between Michigan     30                Not less than $50
Avenue and Vandalia                    nor more than $100
Avenue
South Main Street
between Vandalia                       Not less than $50
Avenue and the       35                nor more than $100
southern corporate
limits
South West Street
between West         20                Not less than $50
Greenwood Avenue and                   nor more than $100
Vandalia Road
Southbrooke Road
extending from South                   Not less than $50
Main east to the     30                nor more than $100
village limits at
the railroad tracks
West Vandalia Road
between a point 240
feet east of the                                          The portion of West
east right-of-way                      Not less than $50  Vandalia Road between
line of Labor Drive  20                nor more than $100 the aforesaid points
and a point 400 feet                                      is hereby declared a
west of the west                                          school zone
right-of-way line of
Labor Drive
 
(Ord. 333, passed 10-7-1965; Ord. 420, passed 2-15-1973; Ord. 561, passed 6-4-
1981; Ord. 715, passed 4-1-1993; Ord. 853, passed 6-6-2002; Ord. 1096, passed
9-3-2020; Ord. 1099, passed - -)
SCHEDULE V. TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Pursuant to agreement entered into with the state on April 5, 1973,
there shall be constructed and placed in operation a traffic-control device or
signal, all as more fully described in said agreement and specifications
attached thereto and in conformity with the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways issued by the Department of Transportation of
the state at the intersection of South Main Street and Vandalia Road.
   (B)   Every person shall obey the instructions of said traffic-control
device or signal unless otherwise directed by a police officer and subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle by the
laws of the state.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this schedule shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than $50
and not more than $100 for each and every offense.
(Ord. 458, passed 5-1-1975)
SCHEDULE VI. THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   Michigan Avenue is hereby declared to be a through street at the
intersections of South East Street and South Clay Street.
   (B)   Greenwood Avenue is hereby declared to be a through street at the
intersections of South East Street and South Clay Street.
(Ord. 513, passed 7-6-1978; Ord. 526, passed 1-18-1979)
SCHEDULE VII. LANE USAGE.
   (A)   All motor vehicles approaching South Main Street on East and West
Vandalia Roads shall proceed to either turn left or right on South Main Street
or proceed across South Main Street by using only those lanes reserved for such
traffic movement as indicated by appropriate signs painted on the surface of
the roadway or erected adjacent thereto.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
schedule shall be fined $50 for each offense.
(Ord. 654, passed 7-21-1988)
SCHEDULE VIII. WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any truck or other motor vehicle having a gross
weight in pounds, including the vehicle and load, in excess of 14,000 pounds on
any residential street in the village, except streets designated as through
state highways, unless required to do so to make local deliveries or pick ups
and then only by the most direct route.
   (B)   Any operator of a vehicle who violates the provisions of this schedule
shall be fined an amount not to exceed $750 for each violation.
(Ord. 985, passed 1-2-2014; Ord. 1069, passed 3-1-2018)
SCHEDULE IX. GOLF/ROHV CROSSINGS.
    The following are intersections of the village streets and state highways
hereby designated as the only authorized crossing locations:
 
Intersection                     Traffic Direction
Vandalia Avenue and Main Street  Eastbound/Westbound
Greenwood Avenue and Main Street Eastbound/Westbound
Michigan Avenue and Main Street  Eastbound only
 
(Ord. 1042, passed 4-6-2017)  Penalty, see §
71.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
91.   FIRE REGULATIONS
      
92.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90:  HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
90.01   Unsafe motor vehicles
   
90.02   Weeds
   
90.03   Emission of dense smoke
   
90.04   Placing of ashes, soot, fine cinders, and other objectionable matter
upon streets and alleys
   
90.05   Rubbish in highways
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  UNSAFE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall permit any motor vehicle which is not in safe operating
condition or which is unlicensed to remain within the corporate limits of the
village outside of a garage or other suitable enclosure for more than 30 days
and at no time shall a person permit more than one such vehicle to remain
inside the corporate limits of the village outside of a garage or other
suitable enclosure.
(Ord. 448, passed 10-3-1974)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  WEEDS.
   (A)   The owners of each lot and parcel of real estate in said village shall
cut and destroy all weeds growing on their respective parcels of real estate in
said village.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Clerk is directed to notify in writing any owner of
property who has weeds growing on his or her property in said village.
      (2)   Said notice is to be sent by certified mail postage prepaid.
      (3)   If any owner at the end of ten days from date of mailing of said
notice has refused or neglected to cut said weeds, the Village Clerk is
directed to have the same cut and thereupon to collect from the owner of said
property the reasonable costs of cutting said weeds all according to the
provisions of Chapter 24, Article 23, Paragraph 113, including the filing of
lien as provided therein.
(Ord. 247, passed 7-5-1956)
§ 90.03  EMISSION OF DENSE SMOKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to cause the emission of dense smoke from any
fire, engine, chimney, oil burner, or any other agency in the village, so as to
cause annoyance and discomfort to the residents thereof, and to prevent the
injury of the property of the residents of said village.
   (B)   For the purpose of testing and grading the density of smoke, the
Ringlemann Smoke Chart, as proposed and used by the United States Geological
Survey, shall be, and is hereby, adopted as a standard for such grading, and
smoke shall be, and hereby is defined as, and declared to be DENSE when it is
of a degree of density of number three on said chart, or greater, for more than
six minutes in any one hour; whether such period of time is consecutive or not.
(Ord. 234, passed 4-7-1955)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  PLACING OF ASHES, SOOT, FINE CINDERS, AND OTHER OBJECTIONABLE MATTER
UPON STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The placing of ashes, soot, fine cinders, or other noxious or offensive
matter, upon any street or alley in the village, be and the same is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-4-1924)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  RUBBISH IN HIGHWAYS.
   Any and every paper, paste-board, dirt, chips, wood, stones, glassware,
tinware, crockery, or other rubbish, and any and every dead animal, manure,
filth, noxious, or offensive matter placed or deposited in or upon any public
ground or highway in said village is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 19, passed 1-10-1912)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
90.01 shall be fined not less than $100 or more than $500 for each violation of
§
90.01.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
90.03 shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during, or on, which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (D)   Every person found guilty of creating a nuisance, as defined in §
90.04, shall be fined not less $100 for each and every such offense.
   (E)   Every person violating §
90.05 shall be fined not less than $100 for each and every offense.
(Ord. 19, passed 1-10-1912; Ord. 67, passed 6-4-1924; Ord. 234, passed 4-7-
1955; Ord. 448, passed 10-3-1974)
CHAPTER 91:  FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
Burning of Trash and Garbage
   
91.01   Burning garbage unlawful
   
91.02   Hours for burning; burning containers
   
91.03   Burning on property used for commercial purposes
   
91.04   Refuse and waste on premises used for commercial and industrial
purposes
Fire Prevention Code
   
91.15   Title; purpose; alternate methods and materials
   
91.16   Applicability
   
91.17   Enforcement authority
   
91.18   Permits
   
91.19   Means of appeal
   
91.20   Orders to eliminate dangerous or hazardous conditions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
BURNING OF TRASH AND GARBAGE
§ 91.01  BURNING GARBAGE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to burn garbage in the village.
(Ord. 293, passed 10-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  HOURS FOR BURNING; BURNING CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful to burn any household refuse or trash except during the
hours between sunrise and sunset, during any day, and provided however any and
all of said refuse and trash shall be burned in an incinerator, barrel, wire,
or other permanent container constructed so as to prevent the escape of burning
refuse or ashes, and further shall be burned only on private property.
(Ord. 293, passed 10-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  BURNING ON PROPERTY USED FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful to burn any garbage or refuse of any kind or nature
upon any premises used for commercial purposes at any time of the day or night
within the village.
(Ord. 301, passed 9-20-1962)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  REFUSE AND WASTE ON PREMISES USED FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
PURPOSES.
   All trash and refuse and wastes accumulating on premises used for industrial
and commercial purposes shall be hauled away from said premises daily.
(Ord. 301, passed 9-20-1962)  Penalty, see §
91.99
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 91.15  TITLE; PURPOSE; ALTERNATE METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Title. These regulations as set forth herein shall be known as the
“Fire Prevention Code of the Village of South Jacksonville” and are herein
referred to as such or as “this subchapter” or “subchapter”.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose and the intent of this subchapter is to prescribe
minimum requirements and controls to safeguard life, property, or public
welfare from the hazards of fire and explosion arising from the storage,
handling, or use of substances, materials, or devices and from conditions
hazardous to life, property, or public welfare in the use or occupancy of
buildings, structures, sheds, tents, lots, or premises. All matters within the
intent of this subchapter and not covered by this subchapter shall comply with
the National Fire Prevention Code - 101 - 1988 Life Safety Code.
   (C)   Alternate methods and materials. The provisions of this subchapter are
not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of work not
specifically prescribed by this subchapter, provided such alternative has been
approved. The approval of any such alternative shall comply with the intent of
the provisions of this subchapter. The material, method, or work offered shall
be, for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in
this subchapter in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance,
durability, and safety.
(Ord. 672, passed 11-2-1989)
§ 91.16  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   New and existing conditions.
      (1)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply equally to new and
existing buildings and conditions.
      (2)   Exceptions include:
         (a)   Existing conditions which do not constitute a distinct hazard to
life or property; and
         (b)   The transportation of any articles or substance under the
jurisdiction of and in compliance with the regulations prescribed by the
military forces of the United States.
   (B)   Applicability of other laws. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed, interpreted, or applied to abrogate, nullify, or abolish any law,
ordinance, or code adopted by the jurisdiction governing the construction,
alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition, use, location, occupancy,
and maintenance of buildings specifically provided herein. When any provision
of this subchapter is found to be in conflict with any building, zoning,
safety, health, or other applicable law, ordinance, or code of the jurisdiction
existing on the effective date of this subchapter or hereafter adopted, the
provision which establishes the higher standard for the promotion and
protection of the safety and welfare of the public shall prevail.
   (C)   Application of Building Code. The planning, design, and construction
of new buildings and structures to provide egress facilities, fire protection,
and built-in fire protection equipment shall be controlled by the building
ordinances of the village and any alterations, additions, or changes in
buildings required by the provisions of this subchapter which are within the
scope of the building ordinances shall be made in accordance therewith.
   (D)   Special equipment. Special fire protection equipment shall be
installed when adequate fire protection is not being provided or hazardous or
dangerous conditions exist. The special fire protection equipment shall be
installed in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter and the
village building ordinances.
   (E)   Existing buildings. Buildings built under and in full compliance with
the village ordinances in force at the time of construction or alteration
thereof, and that have been properly maintained and used for such use as
originally permitted, shall be exempt from the requirements of this subchapter
pertaining to any of the following matters:
      (1)   Fire protection of structural elements except as provided for
existing buildings under the village building ordinances;
      (2)   Exits required, except as provided for existing buildings under
this subchapter and the village building ordinances; and
      (3)   Isolation of hazardous operations and mixed uses; provided,
however, that the Code Official shall require the installation of fire safety
devices or systems (fire extinguishers, fire alarms, fire detection devices,
sprinklers, or similar systems) where they are necessary to provide safety to
life and property. In lieu of requiring the installation of safety devices or
systems or when necessary to secure safety in addition thereto, the Code
Official shall prescribe limitations on the handling and storage of materials
or substances or upon operations that are liable to cause fire, contribute to
the spread of fire, or endanger life or property.
(Ord. 672, passed 11-2-1989)
§ 91.17  ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Enforcement Officer. It shall be the duty and responsibility of the
employee designated by the appointing authority of the jurisdiction, or the
duly authorized representative, to enforce the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code as herein set forth. The designated Enforcement Officer of this
subchapter is herein referred to as the Code Official.
   (B)   Inspections. The Code Official shall inspect all structures and
premises except single-family dwellings, and dwelling units in two-family and
multifamily dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be
corrected any conditions liable to cause fire, contribute to the spread of
fire, interfere with firefighting operations, endanger life, or any violations
of the provisions or intent of this subchapter, or any other ordinance
affecting fire safety.
   (C)   Coordinated inspections. Whenever in the enforcement of the Fire
Prevention Code or another code or ordinance, the responsibility of more than
one official, either of this jurisdiction or some other jurisdiction, i.e.,
State Fire Marshal, is involved, it shall be their duty to coordinate their
inspections and administrative orders as fully as practicable so that the
owners and occupants of the structure shall not be subjected to visits by
numerous inspectors nor multiple or conflicting orders. Whenever an inspector
from any agency or department observes an apparent or actual violation of some
provision of some law, ordinance, or code of the jurisdiction, not within the
inspector’s authority to enforce, the inspector shall report the findings to
the Code Official having jurisdiction.
   (D)   Right of entry. Whenever necessary for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this subchapter, or whenever the Code Official has reasonable
cause to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises, any
condition which makes such structure or premises unsafe, the Code Official
shall be permitted to enter such structure or premises at all reasonable times
to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the Code Official by
this subchapter; provided that if such structure or premises be occupied, the
Code Official shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such
entry is refused, the Code Official shall have recourse to every remedy
provided by law to secure entry.
   (E)   Investigation of fires. The Code Official shall investigate, or cause
to be investigated, every fire or explosion occurring within the jurisdiction
that is of a suspicious nature or which involves the loss of life or serious
injury or causes destruction or damage to property. Such investigation shall be
initiated immediately upon the occurrence of such fire or explosion; and if it
appears that such an occurrence is of a suspicious nature, the Code Official
shall take charge immediately of the physical evidence, and in order to
preserve any physical evidence relating to the cause or origin of such fire or
explosion, take means to prevent access by any person or persons to such
buildings, structure, or premises until such evidence has been properly
processed. The Code Official shall notify such persons designated by law to
pursue investigations into such matters and shall further cooperate with such
authorities in the collection of evidence and prosecution of the case and shall
pursue the investigation to its conclusion.
   (F)   Fire records. The Code Official shall keep a record of all fires and
all facts concerning the same, including investigation findings and statistics
and information as to the cause, origin, and the extent of such fires and the
damage caused thereby.
   (G)   Administrative liability. The Code Official, officer, or employee
charged with the enforcement of this subchapter, while acting for the
jurisdiction, shall not thereby be rendered liable personally, and is hereby
relieved from all personal liability for any damage to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of official duties.
Any suit instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed
in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be defended by the legal representative of the jurisdiction until the
final termination of the proceedings. The Code Official or any subordinates of
the Code Official shall not be liable for costs in any action, suit, or
proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this
subchapter; and any official, officer, or employee, acting in good faith and
without malice, shall be free from liability for acts performed under any of
its provisions or by reason of any act or omission in the performance of the
official duties in connection therewith.
   (H)   Jurisdictional liability. The jurisdiction shall not be liable under
this subchapter for any damage to persons or property, by reason of the
inspection or reinspection of buildings, structures, or equipment authorized
herein, or failure to inspect or reinspect such buildings, structures, or
equipment or by reason of the approval or disapproval of any building,
structure, or equipment authorized herein.
   (I)   Rules and regulations. The Code Official shall have authority as
necessary in the interest of public safety, health, and general welfare to
promulgate rules and regulations, to interpret and implement the provisions of
this subchapter, to secure the intent thereof, and to designate requirements
applicable because of climatic or other conditions. Such rules shall not have
the effect of waiving any fire safety requirements specifically provided in
this subchapter, or violating accepted engineering practice involving public
safety.
   (J)   Notice. It shall be unlawful to: engage in any business activity
involving the handling, storage, or use of hazardous substances, materials, or
devices; maintain, store, or handle materials; conduct processes which produce
conditions hazardous to life or property; install equipment used in connection
with such activities; or establish a place of assembly without first notifying
the Code Official.
   (K)   Sale of fireworks. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
copartnership, or corporation to offer for sale, expose for sale, or sell any
fireworks, as that term is defined at 425 ILCS 35/1, within the village.
   (L)   Possession or use of fireworks. It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm, copartnership, or corporation to knowingly possess, use, or explode any
fireworks, as that term is defined at 425 ILCS 35/1, within the village, unless
that person, firm, copartnership, or corporation has a permit issued pursuant
to §
91.18.
(Ord. 672, passed 11-2-1989; Ord. 770, passed 6-5-1997)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18  PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits required. Permits shall be obtained from the Code Official.
Inspection or permit fees, if any, shall be as established from time to time by
the village. Permits shall at all times be kept in the premises designated
therein and shall, at all times be subject to inspection by the Code Official.
   (B)   Application for permit. Application for a permit required by this
subchapter shall be made to the Code Official on a form provided by the
village. Applications for permits shall be accompanied by plans or drawings as
required by the Code Official for evaluation of the application.
   (C)   Action on application. Before a permit is issued, the Code Official or
the Code Official’s designated representative shall make or cause to be made
such inspections or tests as are necessary to assure that the use and
activities for which application is made complies with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (D)   Conditions of permit. A permit shall constitute permission to
maintain, store, or handle materials, or to conduct processes which produce
conditions hazardous to life or property, or to install equipment used in
connection with such activities in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter. Such permission shall not be construed as authority to violate,
cancel, or set aside any of the provisions of this subchapter. Said permit
shall remain in effect until revoked, or for such period of time specified on
the permit. Permits are not transferable and any change in use, operation, or
tenancy shall require a new permit.
   (E)   Approved plans. Plans approved by the Code Official are approved with
the intent they comply in all respects to this subchapter. Any omissions or
errors on the plans do not relieve the applicant of complying with all
applicable requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   Revocation of permit. The Code Official shall revoke a permit or
approval issued under the provisions of this subchapter if upon inspection any
violation of the subchapter exists, or if conditions of a permit have been
violated, or if there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to
material fact in the application, data, or plans on which the permit or
approval was based.
   (G)   Suspension of permit. Any permit issued shall become invalid if the
authorized work or activity is not commenced within six months after issuance
of the permit, or if the authorized work or activity is suspended or abandoned
for a period of six months after the time of commencement.
   (H)   Payment of fees. A permit shall not be issued until the designated
fees have been paid.
(Ord. 672, passed 11-2-1989)
§ 91.19  MEANS OF APPEAL.
   Any person shall have the right of appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals
from a decision of the Code Official. An application for appeal shall be based
on a claim that the true intent of this subchapter or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this subchapter
do not fully apply, or an equally good or better method of fire prevention is
used. The application shall be filed on a form obtained from the Code Official
within 20 days after the notice was served.
(Ord. 672, passed 11-2-1989)
§ 91.20  ORDERS TO ELIMINATE DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS.
   (A)   General. Whenever the Code Official or the Code Official’s designated
representative shall find in any structure or upon any premises dangerous or
hazardous conditions or materials as follows, the Code Official shall order
such dangerous conditions or materials to be removed or remedied in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter:
      (1)   Dangerous conditions which are liable to cause or contribute to the
spread of fire in or on said premises, building, or structure or endanger the
occupants thereof;
      (2)   Conditions which interfere with the efficiency and use of any fire
protection equipment;
      (3)   Obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors, or
windows liable to interfere with the egress of occupants or the operation of
the Fire Department in case of fire;
      (4)   Accumulations of dust or waste material in air conditioning or
ventilating systems or grease in kitchen or other exhaust ducts;
      (5)   Accumulations of grease on kitchen cooking equipment, or oil,
grease, or dirt upon, under, or around any mechanical equipment;
      (6)   Accumulations of rubbish, waste, paper, boxes, shavings, or other
combustible materials or excessive storage of any combustible material;
      (7)   Hazardous conditions arising from defective or improperly used or
installed electrical wiring, equipment, or appliances;
      (8)   Hazardous conditions arising from defective or improperly installed
equipment for handling or using combustible, explosive, or otherwise hazardous
materials;
      (9)   Dangerous or unlawful amounts of combustible, explosive, or
otherwise hazardous materials; and/or
      (10)   All equipment, materials, processes, or operations which are in
violation of the provisions and intent of this subchapter.
   (B)   Maintenance. The owner shall be responsible for the safe and proper
maintenance of the building, structure, premises, or lot at all times. In all
new and existing buildings and structures, the fire protection equipment, means
of egress, alarms, devices, and safeguards required by this subchapter and
other jurisdictional ordinances, shall be maintained in a safe and proper
operating condition.
   (C)   Occupant responsibility. If an occupant of a building creates
conditions in violation of this subchapter, by virtue of storage, handling, and
use of substances, materials, devices, and appliances, the occupant shall be
held responsible for the abatement of said hazardous conditions.
   (D)   Unsafe buildings. All buildings and structures that are or shall
hereafter become unsafe or deficient in adequate exit facilities or which
constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life or the
public welfare, or by reason of illegal or improper use, occupancy, or
maintenance, or which have sustained structural damage by reason of fire,
explosion, or natural disaster shall be deemed unsafe buildings or structures.
A vacant building, or portion of a building, unguarded or open at door or
window, shall be deemed a fire hazard and unsafe within the meaning of this
subchapter. Unsafe buildings shall be reported to the Building Code Official
who shall take appropriate action deemed necessary under the provisions of the
Building Code to secure abatement by repair and rehabilitation or by
demolition.
   (E)   Evacuation. When, in the opinion of the Code Official, there is actual
and potential danger to the occupants or those in the proximity of any
building, structure, or premises because of unsafe structural conditions, or
inadequacy of any means of egress, the presence of explosives, explosive fumes
or vapors, or the presence of toxic fumes, gases, or materials, the Code
Official shall order the immediate evacuation of said building, structure, or
premises. All of the occupants so notified shall immediately leave the
building, structure, or premises and persons shall not enter or reenter until
authorized to do so by the Code Official.
   (F)   Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall refuse to leave, interfere
with the evacuation of other occupants, or continue any operation after having
been given an evacuation order except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (G)   Notice of violation. Whenever the Code Official observes an apparent
or actual violation of a provision of this subchapter or other codes or
ordinances under the Code Official’s jurisdiction, the Code Official shall
prepare a written notice of violation describing the condition deemed unsafe
and specifying time limits for the required repairs or improvements to be made
to render the building, structure, or premises safe and secure. The written
notice of violation of this subchapter shall be served upon the owner, a duly
authorized agent or upon the occupant or other person responsible for the
conditions under violation. Such notice of violation shall be served either by
delivering a copy of same to such person or persons by ordinary mail to the
last known post office address, delivered in person or by delivering it to and
leaving it in the possession of any person in charge of the premises, or in the
case such person is not found upon the premises, by affixing a copy thereof, in
a conspicuous place at the entrance door or avenue of access; and such
procedure shall be deemed the equivalent of personal notice.
   (H)   Failure to correct violations. If the notice of violation is not
complied with within the time specified by the Code Official, the Code Official
shall request the legal counsel of the jurisdiction to institute the
appropriate legal proceedings to restrain, correct, or abate such violation or
to require removal or termination of the unlawful use of the building or
structure in violation of the provisions of this subchapter or of any order or
direction made pursuant thereto. The police department of the jurisdiction
shall be requested by the Code Official to make arrests for any offense against
this subchapter or orders of the Code Official affecting the immediate safety
of the public.
(Ord. 672, passed 11-2-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
91.01 shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $100 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions
of §§
91.15 through
91.20, or failing to comply with any order issued pursuant to any section
thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $1,000 and by
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 30 days for each offense. Each day that
a violation continues, after a service of notice as provided for in §§
91.15 through
91.20, shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   The imposition of the penalties herein described shall not prevent
the legal officer of the jurisdiction from instituting appropriate action to
prevent unlawful construction or to restrain, correct, or abate a violation; or
to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure, or premises; or to stop
an illegal act, conduct of business, or use of a building or structure in or
about any premises.
(Ord. 293, passed 10-5-1961; Ord. 672, passed 11-2-1989)
CHAPTER 92:  ANIMALS
Section
   
92.01   Noisy animals
   
92.02   Keeping of hogs prohibited
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  NOISY ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog or other animal shut up or tied up in
any yard, enclosure, or on any premises which, by barking, howling, bawling, or
by other noises, shall disturb the peace and quiet of any family, individual,
or neighborhood.
(Ord. 518, passed 10-5-1978)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  KEEPING OF HOGS PROHIBITED.
   The keeping of one or more hogs, pigs, sows, or boars within the corporate
limits of the village is declared to be a nuisance and the same shall be, and
hereby is, prohibited.
(Ord. 149, passed 8-11-1943)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person guilty of violating §
92.01 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100 for each offense.
   (C)   Whoever shall create or continue a nuisance, as defined in §
92.02, or who shall suffer the same to exist upon his or her premises, shall
upon conviction be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100 for each and
every offense.
(Ord. 149, passed 8-11-1943; Ord.518, passed 10-5-1978)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   TAXES
      
112.   ALCOHOL
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   House movers
   
110.02   Wholesale businesses
   
110.03   Miniature golf courses
   
110.04   Trampoline and miscellaneous entertainment
   
110.05   Amusement rides
   
110.06   Video gaming terminals
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  HOUSE MOVERS.
   (A)   Every person shall, before engaging in the occupation of house mover,
obtain a license therefor from the Building Inspector upon a written
application therefor.
   (B)   No person, except a licensed house mover, shall move any house, barn,
or other building over, across, or along any street or alley within the
corporate limits of the village.
   (C)   House movers are required to pay the following license fee before
entering into such business:
 
License Type Fee
1 year       $500
 
   (D)   No person shall be issued a license to engage in the occupation of a
house mover until such person shall have given a bond in the sum of $100,000,
with good and sufficient sureties, conditioned, among other things, that the
person will pay any and all damages which may happen to any tree, pavement, or
sidewalk, or any other property belonging to the village, whether the damage
shall be inflicted by such person or his or her agents, employees, or workers;
conditioned, also, that the person will immediately pay any judgment that may
be obtained against the village as well as any costs the village may incur in
consequence of the granting of such license, and all the acts done thereunder,
and will, in all things, strictly comply with the conditions of his or her
license.
   (E)   The person licensed as a house mover shall in each and every instance,
before moving any building, obtain a written permit to do so from the Building
Inspector and shall pay a fee of $250; thereupon the Building Inspector shall
issue a permit stating specifically the condition, prescribing the route to be
taken, and limiting the time for the removal; provided, however, that no permit
shall be issued for the removal of any building in the village, unless the
conditions set forth in said permit comply with all applicable village
ordinances.
   (F)   No person licensed as a house mover shall be issued a permit to move a
house, or any other structure that is to be used as a residence, on to property
located within the corporate limits of the village unless the owner of the
property, on which the house or other structure is to be moved, shall have
given bond in the sum of$100,000 with good and sufficient sureties, conditioned
that the owner of said property shall, within 90 days from the date said house
or structure is moved on to said property, place said house or structure on a
suitable foundation, and place said house or structure in a condition suitable
for human occupation, including installation of all appropriate exterior
porches, stairways, doors, windows, and installation of sewer, water, and
electricity.
   (G)   Every house mover, while using any portion of the street or sidewalk,
shall cause at least one red light to be placed in a conspicuous place in front
and one in the rear of any building, or any other obstruction placed in the
street by him or her, from sunset to sunrise of each night. He or she shall
also leave all streets and alleys over which he or she has moved any building
in as good condition as they were before being so used by him or her, and shall
strictly comply with the terms of his or her license.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-19-1965)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02  WHOLESALE BUSINESSES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall, after the passage of this section,
carry on or conduct or maintain any business, wholesale or retail, within the
limits of the village without first obtaining a permit or a license to do so
from the President and Board of Trustees of said village.
(Ord. 112, passed 11-6-1935)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03  MINIATURE GOLF COURSES.
   No person shall own, keep, or run a miniature golf course without first
obtaining a license therefor. The rate of license for a miniature golf course
shall be $1 a day, $7.50 for three months, or $200 per year. No license shall
authorize the operation of any miniature golf course in contravention of any
other ordinance of the village.
(Ord. 278, passed 10-1-1959)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04  TRAMPOLINE AND MISCELLANEOUS ENTERTAINMENT.
   No person shall own, keep, or run a trampoline area or other miscellaneous
type entertainment for which a charge to the public is made, without first
obtaining a license therefor. The rate of license for trampoline or other
miscellaneous type entertainment shall be $1 per day, $7.50 for three months,
or $200 per year. No license shall be authorized for the operation of a
trampoline area or other miscellaneous type entertainment in contravention of
any other ordinance of the village.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-30-1960)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05  AMUSEMENT RIDES.
   No person shall own, keep, or operate a kiddie ride or any ride of similar
nature for use of the general public without first obtaining a license
therefor. The rate of license for such amusement equipment shall be $50 a day,
$7.50 for three months, or $20 per year. No license shall authorize the
operation of any kiddie ride of similar equipment in contravention of any other
ordinance of the village.
(Ord. 298A, passed 7-5-1962)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06  VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless context clearly indicates or requires otherwise.
      (1)   The phrases VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL, LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT, LICENSED
FRATERNAL ESTABLISHMENTS, LICENSED VETERANS ESTABLISHMENTS, and LICENSED TRUCK
STOP ESTABLISHMENTS shall have the meanings set forth in the State Video Gaming
Act (230 ILCS 40/1 et seq). The terms HOTEL and GAMING PARLOR are listed and
defined in divisions (C)(5) and (C)(6) below.
      (2)   LICENSES. Means and include all of the establishments defined in
section (1) hereof.
   (B)   Imposition of annual fee. Commencing upon adoption of this section, an
annual fee of $25 is hereby imposed upon each video gaming terminal operated by
a licensed establishment, licensed fraternal establishments, licensed veterans
establishments or licensed truck stop establishments within the village in
accordance with the provisions of the State Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et
seq. (the “Act”). The fee paid for each video gaming terminal shall be for the
fiscal year January 1 through December 30, and any fee paid during a fiscal
year shall apply until the end of the fiscal year in which paid. Any continuing
operation of a video gaming terminal shall require the payment of a new annual
fee on or before January 1 of each year for the ensuing fiscal year.
   (C)   Licenses for establishments.
      (1)   Gaming licenses. To obtain a gaming license in the village, the
establishment must be properly zoned and have already obtained the prerequisite
state liquor license, state gaming license, and village liquor license. All
gaming license fees shall be in the amount of $2 per machine per year, with a
maximum of five machines per establishment.
      (2)   Class 1 gaming license. This license shall be known as a “tavern”
license and shall entitle the licensee to have video gaming on the premises.
This license shall only be issued to establishments which have a Class A liquor
license.
      (3)   Class 2 gaming license. This license shall be known as a
“restaurant” license and shall entitle the licensee to have video gaming on the
premises. This license shall only be issued to establishments which have a
Class B liquor license.
      (4)   Class 3 gaming license. This license shall be known as a “truck
stop” license and shall entitle the licensee to have video gaming on the
premises. This license shall only be issued to establishments which meet the
qualifications for a “truck stop” under the State Gaming Code. This license
shall only be issued to establishments which have a Class C liquor license.
      (5)   Class 4 gaming license. This license shall be known as a “hotel”
license and shall entitle the licensee to have video gaming on the premises. A
hotel is defined by the State Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax Act as follows:
“HOTEL means any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
The term includes, but is not limited to, inns, motels, tourist homes or
courts, retreat centers, conference centers, and hunting lodges.” A HOTEL pays
a hotel operator’s occupation tax. This license shall only be issued to
establishments which have a Class B liquor license.
(35 ILCS 145/2)
      (6)   Class 5 gaming license. This license shall be known as a “gaming
parlor” license and shall entitle the licensee to have video gaming on the
premises. A gaming parlor is defined as an establishment whose primary business
is video gaming where more than one-half of the income derived thereon comes
from video gaming. This license shall only be issued to establishments which
have a Class A liquor license.
   (D)   Application for permit. Every licensee shall make application to the
Village Clerk’s office for a permit, and shall pay the annual fee for each
video gaming terminal operated. The application shall designate the name of the
licensee, the location of the licensed establishment operating the video gaming
terminal, the number of video gaming terminals operated at that location, and
shall include a copy of the license issued by the state for the operation of
the video gaming terminal. No permit shall be issued to any person whose video
gaming terminal is not licensed by the state for the location for which the
permit is sought.
   (E)   Limitations upon placement. No video gaming terminal permit shall be
issued to, and no video gaming terminal shall be placed or operated from
within, a location that does not also have issued to it a license for the sale
of alcoholic beverages at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises,
notwithstanding any greater limit which may from time to time be established by
the state legislature, no more than five video gaming terminals shall be
allowed, nor permits be issued therefor, under this section, for each license
at any one location.
   (F)   Play by minors prohibited: penalties. No person under the age of 21
years shall be permitted to use or play a video gaming terminal, and any
licensee who shall suffer or permit a person under the age of 21 years to use
or play a video gaming terminal shall be subject to fine or have his or her
licenses issued under this section suspended or revoked.
   (G)   Inspection of records. Each licensee shall permit the inspection of
the books and records of the licensee pertaining to and reflecting operation of
each video gaming terminal of the licensee at the request of any law
enforcement officer of the village or the state at all reasonable times.
   (H)   Number of video gaming licenses.
      (1)   Class 1 tavern license: one total;
      (2)   Class 2 restaurant license: zero total;
      (3)   Class 3 truck Stop license: two total;
      (4)   Class 4 hotel license: four total; and
      (5)   Class 5 gaming parlor license: three total.
(Ord. 1055, passed 1-4-2018; Ord. 1056, passed 1-4-2018)  Penalty, see §
110.99 
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Pursuant to §
110.01, the owner of any building or the contractor for its removal, either or
both, who shall suffer the same to be or remain in any of the streets or alleys
or upon any of the public grounds of the village for any time longer than may
be specified in the license, shall forfeit a penalty of $100 and a like penalty
for every 24 hours the same shall be continued, and unless such building is
removed within such reasonable time as the President may determine, he or she
may declare the same to be a nuisance and cause its removal. Any owner of
property onto which a house or other structure that is to be used as a
residence is moved, who fails to comply with the requirements of §
110.01(F), shall forfeit a penalty of $100 and a like penalty for every 24
hours that said property owner shall be in violation of said §
110.01(F).
   (C)   Whoever shall carry on or conduct any business wholesale or retail
without first obtaining a permit or license as required in §
110.02 shall, upon conviction, be fined $100 for each day such business is
carried on or conducted in violation of §
110.02.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §
110.03 shall be liable for a fine of $50 per day.
   (E)   Any person violating any provision of §
110.04 shall be liable for a fine of $50 per day.
   (F)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be liable for
a fine of $50 per day.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
110.06 by operation of a video gaming terminal without having obtained the
permit and paid the annual fed therefore, or by operating a video gaming
terminal in violation of any provisions of §
110.06, shall be guilty of a petty offense, and shall be fined an amount not to
exceed $500 for each such offense, and the license or licenses shall be subject
to suspension or revocation as herein provided. Each day that a video gaming
terminal is operated in violation of §
110.06 shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 112, passed 11-6-1935; Ord. 278, passed 10-1-1959; Ord. 281, passed 6-30-
1960; Ord. 298A, passed 7-5-1962; Ord. 331, passed 8-19-1965; Ord. 1055, passed
1-4-2018)
CHAPTER 111:  TAXES
Section
Taxes Generally
   
111.01   Automobile renting occupation tax
   
111.02   Retailers’ occupation tax
   
111.03   Service occupation tax
Hotel and Motel Tax
   
111.15   Title
   
111.16   Definitions
   
111.17   Tax imposed; reimbursement; duty of operator to pay
   
111.18   Records to be kept
   
111.19   Returns
   
111.20   Collection
   
111.21   Proceeds of taxes
   
111.22   Disbursement of funds
   
111.23   Certificate of registration
 
   
111.99   Penalty
TAXES GENERALLY
§ 111.01  AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
renting automobiles in this village at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts
from such rentals made in the course of such business while this section is in
effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-7 of the State
Municipal Code.
   (B)   Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall file
on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by the Retailers’ Occupation Tax, being 35 ILCS
120, as amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
renting of automobiles during the preceding month.
   (D)   The Village Clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the State
Department of Revenue a certified copy of this section not later than five days
after the effective date of this section.
   (E)   This section shall be effective on the first day of the calendar month
next following publication as provided in 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4 of the Municipal
Code. Certified proof of publication shall be forwarded to the State Department
of Revenue along with the certified copy of this section as required by
division (D) above.
(Ord. 571, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 111.02  RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in this village at the rate of 1%
of the gross receipts, from such sales made in the course of such business
while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS
5/8-11-1 of the State Municipal Code.
   (B)   Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall file
on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by § 3 of An Act in Relation to a Tax upon
Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
   (D)   The Village Clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the State
Department of Revenue a certified copy of this section not later than five days
after the effective date of this section.
   (E)   This section shall be published within ten days of its enactment as
provided in 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4 of the State Municipal Code and shall be effective
from and after October 1, 1969.
   (F)   The exclusion contained in § 2(d) of the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act
approved June 28, 1933, as amended, shall not apply to property within the
village.
   (G)   Exclusion a-1 contained in § 2 of the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act
approved June 28, 1933, as amended, shall not apply to persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail within the village.
(Ord. 374, passed 7-31-1969; Ord. 522, passed 12-21-1978; Ord. 552, passed 10-
2-1980)
§ 111.03  SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality
in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost price
of all tangible personal property transferred by said servicemen either in the
form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident
to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5 of
the State Municipal Code.
   (B)   Every supplier or serviceman required to account for municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall file, on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of
Revenue required by § 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act approved July 10,
1961, as amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
   (D)   The Village Clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the State
Department of Revenue a certified copy of this section not later than five days
after the effective date of this section.
   (E)   This section shall be published within ten days of its enactment as
provided, in 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4 of the State Municipal Code and shall be effective
from and after October 1, 1969.
   (F)   The exclusion contained in § 2(e) of the Service Occupation Tax Act
approved July 10, 1961, as amended, shall not apply to property within the
village.
   (G)   The farm machinery and equipment exclusion contained in § 3 of the
Service Occupation Tax Act, approved July 10, 1961, as amended, shall not apply
to all persons engaged in the business of making sale of service within the
village.
(Ord. 373, passed 7-31-1969; Ord. 523, passed 12-21-1978; Ord. 551, passed 10-
2-1980)
HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX
§ 111.15  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “South
Jacksonville Hotel and Motel Tax Ordinance” and may be referred to herein as:
   (A)   “This subchapter”; or
   (B)   “Subchapter”.
(Ord. 919, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 111.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Additionally, the following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and
enforcement of this subchapter.
   CLERK. The Village Clerk of the Village of South Jacksonville, Illinois.
   HOTEL. Includes a motel, operator, occupancy, room or rooms, permanent
resident, rent or rental, department, and person are hereby defined and shall
have the meanings provided in § 2 of the Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax Act
(35 ILCS 145/2), as that section may be in force from time to time.
   RETURN. Any return filed or required to be filed as provided in this
subchapter.
   VILLAGE. The Village of South Jacksonville, an Illinois municipal
corporation.
(Ord. 919, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 111.17  TAX IMPOSED; REIMBURSEMENT; DUTY OF OPERATOR TO PAY.
   (A)   Tax imposed. Pursuant to the authority granted by 65 ILCS 5/8-3-14,
effective 12:01 a.m. on September 1, 2008, there is hereby levied and imposed a
tax of 5% of the gross rental receipts from the renting, leasing, or letting of
a hotel or motel room within the village for each 24-hour period or any portion
thereof for which a daily room charge is made; provided, however, that a tax
shall not be levied or imposed on any person who shall be a permanent resident.
A PERMANENT RESIDENT is hereby defined to be a person who rents a hotel or
motel room in the same establishment for more than 30 consecutive days or to a
person who works and lives in the same hotel or motel.
   (B)   Reimbursement. Persons subject to the tax hereby imposed may reimburse
themselves for their tax liability for such tax by separately stating such tax
as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination and in a
single amount with the state tax imposed under the Hotel Operators’ Occupation
Tax Act, as provided in the Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax Act (35 ILCS 145/
1 et seq.).
   (C)   Duty of operator to pay. The tax herein levied and imposed shall be
paid in addition to any and all other taxes and charges. It shall be the duty
of the operator to pay the amount of the tax to the Clerk under procedures
prescribed by the Clerk or as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 919, passed 8-7-2008)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18  RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   Every operator shall keep records of every occupancy and of all rent paid,
charged, or due thereon and of the tax payable thereon in such form as may be
required by regulation prescribed by the Clerk or as otherwise provided in this
subchapter. Such records shall be available for inspection and examination for
any proper purpose at any reasonable time upon demand by the Clerk or a duly
authorized agent or employee of the village and shall be preserved for a period
of three years unless the Clerk shall prescribe a shorter period of time. It
shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere with the
Clerk or the duly authorized deputy or representative of the Clerk in the
discharge of the Clerk’s duties set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 919, passed 8-7-2008)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19  RETURNS.
   (A)   Every operator shall file monthly with the Clerk a return of occupancy
and of rents and of the taxes payable thereon on forms prescribed by the Clerk
and consistent with the returns required under the Hotel Operators’ Occupation
Tax Act, found in 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq. The return shall be due on or before
the last day of the calendar month following the end of the month for which the
return is being filed. A separate return shall be filed for each place of
business within the village regardless of ownership.
   (B)   The first taxing period for the purpose of this subchapter shall
commence on September 1, 2008. At the time of filing such tax return, the
operator shall pay the full amount of all tax due hereunder for the month of
the return.
   (C)   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate
of 2% per 30-day period or portion thereof from the date of delinquency shall
be added and collected.
(Ord. 919, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 111.20  COLLECTION.
   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax due hereunder or any penalty
provided for herein, the Clerk shall cause to be brought in the name of the
village an action to enforce payment of the tax, together with the costs of
such collection, including the village’s reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 919, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 111.21  PROCEEDS OF TAXES.
   (A)   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax hereunder,
including penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of the village, and shall
be credited to and deposited in a separate fund of the village entitled
“Tourism Fund”.
   (B)   All such proceeds shall be separately accounted for by the Clerk and
by the Village Treasurer.
(Ord. 919, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 111.22  DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Use of funds. All taxes and penalties received by the village on or
before February 28, 2011 shall be paid over to the Jacksonville Area Visitors
and Convention Bureau, Inc., a not-for-profit Illinois Corporation (“Bureau”),
to be expended by it solely to promote tourism and conventions within the
village or to otherwise attract nonresident overnight visitors to the village.
The Bureau shall account to the village for the expenditure of said funds not
less frequently then semiannually. Unless otherwise directed by the corporate
authorities of the village, after February 28, 2011, all taxes and penalties
received by the village shall be retained by the village and shall be expended
by the village to promote tourism and conventions within the village or
otherwise to attract nonresident overnight visitors to the village.
   (B)   Reimbursement of operators’ expenses of promotion. The recipient of
the tax shall pay over to each operator such amount as the operator
demonstrates to the recipient that the operator has expended in advertising or
other promotional activities undertaken for the purpose of promoting tourism
and conventions, or otherwise attracting nonresident, overnight visitors to the
village; provided, however, that the amount paid to the operator during each
calendar year shall not exceed 40% of the amount of tax and penalties received
by the village from that operator in that year.
   (C)   Accounting. The Bureau shall account to the village for the
expenditure of said funds, including the payments provided for herein to
operators not less frequently than semiannually.
(Ord. 919, passed 8-7-2008; Ord. 933, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 111.23  CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for any person to
engage in the business of renting, leasing, or letting rooms in a hotel within
the village without a certificate of registration from the Clerk. Such
registration shall be issued by the Clerk on forms consistent with those
registrations issued by the Department under the provisions of 35 ILCS 145/1 et
seq.
(Ord. 919, passed 8-7-2008)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
111.15 through
111.23 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $50, nor more
than $200, said fine to be in addition to any and all other penalties provided
herein. A separate offense shall be deemed to have been committed upon each day
in which such violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 919, passed 8-7-2008)
CHAPTER 112:  ALCOHOL
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Construction and purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
Licenses
   
112.15   License required
   
112.16   License classes and fees
   
112.17   Holding more than one license
   
112.18   Applications
   
112.19   Person subject to license
   
112.20   Duration of license
   
112.21   Forms
   
112.22   Signatures
   
112.23   Fees
   
112.24   Termination of licenses
   
112.25   Building and premises
   
112.26   Change of location
   
112.27   Nuisances
   
112.28   Inspections
   
112.29   Revocation
   
112.30   Privilege granted by license
   
112.31   Persons ineligible to license
   
112.32   Limitations on area covered by license
Prohibitions on Sales and Unlawful Behavior
   
112.45   Retail sales near churches, schools, and the like
   
112.46   Stores selling school supplies, lunches, and the like
   
112.47   Sale to minors, habitual drunkards, spendthrifts, and mental
incompetents
   
112.48   Purchase or acceptance of gift of liquor by persons of nonage;
identification cards; rules and regulations
   
112.49   Minimum age
   
112.50   Warning to persons to whom the sale of alcoholic liquor is prohibited
   
112.51   Persons prohibited on premises
   
112.52   Limitations on possession of open container
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01  CONSTRUCTION AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to the end that the health,
safety, and welfare of the people of the village shall be protected and
temperance in the consumption of alcoholic liquors shall be fostered and
promoted by sound and careful control and regulation of the retail sale of
alcoholic liquors.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.02  DEFINITIONS.
   All definitions in An Act relating to Alcoholic Liquors enacted by the
People of the State of Illinois on January 31, 1934, and as amended from time
to time, and known as Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 43 are hereby incorporated herein by
reference thereto and are made a part hereof as though fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
LICENSES
§ 112.15  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail or have in his or her
possession and offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor within the
corporate limits of the village without first having obtained a license or
permit to do so pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16  LICENSE CLASSES AND FEES.
   Licenses to sell alcoholic liquors at retail shall be of the following
classes and require the following fees.
   (A)   Effective immediately after the passage of this chapter, the following
hours will apply.
License Hours
License                                     Hours
Class A – Tavern                          Monday through Thursday: 6:00 a.m. to 1:30 a.m.
                                            Friday through Saturday: 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Class B – Restaurant and lodging          Monday through Thursday: 6:00 a.m. to 1:30 a.m.
                                            Friday through Saturday: 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Class C – Package                         Monday through Thursday: 6:00 a.m. to 1:30 a.m.
                                            Friday through Saturday: 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Class D – Cabaret                         Monday through Thursday: 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
                                            Friday through Saturday: 11:00 a.m. to 1:30 a.m.
Class E – Beer and wine only              Monday through Thursday: 6:00 a.m. to 1:30 a.m.
                                            Friday through Saturday: 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Class F – Beer only                       Monday through Thursday: 6:00 a.m. to 1:30 a.m.
                                            Friday through Saturday: 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Class G – Special event                   Hours prescribed by license only
Class H – Gaming parlor                   Monday through Thursday: 6:00 a.m. to 1:30 a.m.
                                            Friday through Saturday: 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
New Year’s Eve (Classes A, B, C, D, E, F, Allowed to remain open until 3:00 a.m. (New Year’s
H,)                                         Day)
 
   (B)   Effective immediately after the passage of this chapter, the following
fees shall apply.
License Fees (every six months)
License Fees (every six months)
Class A $500
Class B $500
Class C $400
Class D $500
Class E $350
Class F $325
Class G $350
Class H $2,500
 
(Ord. 616, passed 4-18-1985; Ord. 676, passed 2-1-1990; Ord. 1088, passed 9-5-
2019)
§ 112.17  HOLDING MORE THAN ONE LICENSE.
   Except as specifically provided herein to the contrary, no person shall be
entitled to more than one license.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.18  APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance shall
be made in writing to the Liquor Control Commissioner in the absence of
provision to the contrary.
   (B)   Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or
license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee
to be paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as
may be needed for the proper guidance of the village officials in the issuing
of the permit or license applied for.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.19  PERSON SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever in this chapter a license is required, any person or corporation
shall be subject to the requirement if by himself or through an agent,
employee, or partner, he or she holds himself forth as being engaged in the
business or corporation; or solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively;
or performs or attempts to perform any part of such business or occupation in
the village.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.20  DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter, except a Class G license, shall
be issued for a period not to exceed six months and there shall be two six-
month periods in each year, the first commencing January 1 and terminating June
30 and the second commencing July 1 and terminating December 31.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.21  FORMS.
   Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the Liquor Control Commissioner.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.22  SIGNATURES.
   Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the Liquor
Control Commissioner and the Village Clerk in the absence of any provision to
the contrary.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.23  FEES.
   (A)   In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (B)   No license fees shall be prorated and the full fee for the current
six-month license period in which the license is issued shall be paid.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided, all license fees shall become a part of
the general funds of the village.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.24  TERMINATION OF LICENSES.
   All licenses shall terminate on the last day of the license period for which
it was issued.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.25  BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
shall be issued for anything, or act, if the premises and building to be used
for the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the village. No
such license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of
Chapter 154 of this code.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.26  CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business may be changed upon written approval
of the Liquor Control Commissioner provided ten days’ notice thereof is given
to the Liquor Control Commission provided that the building and zoning
requirements of the village ordinances are complied with.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.27  NUISANCES.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance in fact.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.28  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business are provided for or required by ordinance,
or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any ordinance provision
or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee, or the
person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit thereto for the
purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the village who is
authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable time that
admission is required.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Liquor
Control Commissioner may revoke the license of any licensee who refuses to
permit any such officer or employee who is authorized to make such inspection
or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his
or her duty in making such inspection provided that no license shall be revoked
for such cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee or person in
charge of the premises, in the name of the village, stating that such
inspection is desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.29  REVOCATION.
   Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked or suspended by the
Liquor Control Commissioner at any time during the life of such license or
permit for any violation by the licensee or permittee of this chapter or any
other ordinance of the village or laws of the state or the United States of
America such revocation or suspension may be in addition to any fine imposed.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.30  PRIVILEGE GRANTED BY LICENSE.
   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good only for the period for
which it was issued, unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment, or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall
cease upon the death of the licensee, provided that executors or administrators
of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or
bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may
continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under
order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased
or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license but not longer
than three months after the death, bankruptcy, or insolvency of such licensee.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.31  PERSONS INELIGIBLE TO LICENSE.
   No license of any kind shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the village in which the premises
covered by the license are located;
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (G)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   (H)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   (I)   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license;
   (J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship and residence within the political
subdivision;
   (K)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the state’s Business Corporation
Act to transact business in the state;
   (L)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
   (M)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this chapter, or shall have forfeited his or her
bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation;
   (N)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued;
   (O)   Any law enforcing public official or Trustee or President of the
Village Board of Trustees; and no such official shall be interested in any way,
either directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of
alcoholic liquor;
   (P)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   (Q)   A person who has been convicted two or more times of a gambling
offense as proscribed from time to time by the Criminal Code of the state as
heretofore or hereafter amended; provided that any person convicted of a first
offense shall not be issued such license for a period of one year from the
conviction; and
   (R)   A person who is less than 21 years of age.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.32  LIMITATIONS ON AREA COVERED BY LICENSE.
   Alcoholic liquor shall be sold or offered for sale only within the building
or other structure or replacement thereof that existed on the licensed premises
at the time the license for the same was issued and the size of said building
or other structure shall not be increased by replacement or otherwise without
the approval of the Liquor Commissioner.
(Ord. 616, passed 4-18-1985)  Penalty, see §
112.99
PROHIBITIONS ON SALES AND UNLAWFUL BEHAVIOR
§ 112.45  RETAIL SALES NEAR CHURCHES, SCHOOLS, AND THE LIKE.
   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
within 250 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for aged or indigent
persons, or for veterans, their wives or children or any military or naval
station; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering
restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops,
or other places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on, if such place of business so exempted shall have been established
for such purposes prior to the taking effect of this chapter; nor to the
renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises
within 250 feet of any church where such church has been established within
such 250 feet since the issuance of the original license.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.46  STORES SELLING SCHOOL SUPPLIES, LUNCHES, AND THE LIKE.
   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches, or drinks for such
minors.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.47  SALE TO MINORS, HABITUAL DRUNKARDS, SPENDTHRIFTS, AND MENTAL
INCOMPETENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent, or employee of such licensee to sell, give, or deliver
alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of 21 years or to any intoxicated
person or to any person known by him or her to be a habitual drunkard,
spendthrift, insane, mentally ill, mentally deficient, or in need of mental
treatment and no person after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic
liquor shall sell, give, or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person
under the age of 21 years except in the performance of a religious ceremony or
service.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.48  PURCHASE OR ACCEPTANCE OF GIFT OF LIQUOR BY PERSONS OF NONAGE;
IDENTIFICATION CARDS; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any person to whom the sale, gift, or delivery of alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic
liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his or her possession.
   (B)   If a licensee or his or her agents or employees believes or has reason
to believe that a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of
the nonage of the prospective recipient, he or she shall, before making such
sale or delivery demand presentation of some form of positive identification,
containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his
or her official duties.
   (C)   No person shall transfer, alter, or deface such an identification
card; use the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information, or otherwise misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
purchasing alcoholic liquor. No person shall purchase, accept delivery, or have
possession of alcoholic liquor in violation of this section. The consumption of
alcoholic liquor by any person under 21 years of age is forbidden.
   (D)   The possession and dispensing, or consumption by a minor of alcoholic
liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the
consumption by a minor under the direct supervision and approval of the parents
or parent of such minor in the privacy of a home, is not prohibited by this
chapter.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.49  MINIMUM AGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to attend any
bar, to draw, pour, or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail
premises, or to sell alcoholic liquor, provided, however, any person who is 18
years of age and less than 21 years of age and who was employed to perform any
of the foregoing functions on May 1, 1985 may continue to do so for the
employer who employed that person on May 1, 1985.
(Ord. 617, passed 5-16-1985)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.50  WARNING TO PERSONS TO WHOM THE SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IS
PROHIBITED.
   In every tavern or other place in the village where alcoholic liquor is
sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card
which shall be supplied by the Clerk and which shall read substantially as
follows:
 
WARNING TO PERSONS TO WHOM THE SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IS PROHIBITED
You are subject to a fine up to $500 under the ordinances of the Village of
South Jacksonville if you purchase alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age
for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.
 
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)
§ 112.51  PERSONS PROHIBITED ON PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s license or
his or her agent or employee to suffer or permit any person under the age of
21, except an employee who is on said premises in the course of his or her
employment, to remain in any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or
situated in the room or place where such licensed premises are located;
provided, however, the foregoing shall not apply to any person under the age of
21 years, who is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or to any
licensed premises which derives its principal business from the sale or service
of other commodities than alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.52  LIMITATIONS ON POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINER.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For any licensee to permit any person on the licensed premises to
leave the licensed premises with an open container containing any alcoholic
liquor;
   (B)   For any person to leave any licensed premises with an open container
containing any alcoholic liquor;
   (C)   For any person to be on or about any licensed premises with an open
container containing any alcoholic liquor; and/or
   (D)   For any person to possess any open container containing any alcoholic
liquor while upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or public parking lot; while in
any public park or in or upon any property owned by the village unless
possession of the same is on premises for which a valid Class G license has
been issued.
(Ord. 616, passed 4-18-1985)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
112.47 shall, in addition to other penalties provided for in this chapter, be
fined not more than $100, or shall be imprisoned in the county jail for a
period of not more than six months, or both, for the first offense; and for the
second and subsequent offenses shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than
$100, or shall be imprisoned in the county jail for a period of not more than
six months, or be both so fined and imprisoned.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §
112.48 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500 or
imprisoned in a penal institution other than the penitentiary for not more than
30 days, or both for each offense.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-4-1983; Ord. 616, passed 4-18-1985)
CHAPTER 113:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   License required
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Application
   
113.04   Application and issuance
   
113.05   Service of process
   
113.06   Fee for license
   
113.07   Term of license; not transferable
   
113.08   Exhibition of license
   
113.09   Duty of police to enforce
   
113.10   Revocation of license
   
113.11   Appeals
   
113.12   Hours of activity
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of peddlers or
solicitors, as defined in §
113.02 hereof, within the village without first obtaining a license therefor in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1026, passed 7-7-2016)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER and SOLICITOR.
      (1)   Includes any person traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle,
or any other type of conveyance from place to place, from house to house, or
from street to street in the village: transporting goods and offering and
exposing the same for sale; offering services for sale; or soliciting orders
for goods or services to be delivered in any way at a later time.
      (2)   The word PEDDLER shall not include: any person who plans to make or
solicit sales only at specific business locations, as opposed to traveling door
to door among business locations; or any bona fide not-for-profit organization.
   PERSON. Includes the singular and the plural and shall also mean and include
any person, firm, corporation, or organization.
(Ord. 1026, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 113.03  APPLICATION.
   Applicants for license under this chapter shall file with the Village Clerk
a sworn application in writing on a form to be furnished by the Village Clerk,
which shall give the following information:
   (A)   Name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold and, in the case of products of farm or orchard, whether produced or grown
by the applicant;
   (C)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credential establishing the exact relationship;
   (D)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (E)   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with
license number or other means of identification;
   (F)   A photograph of the applicant taken within 60 days immediately prior
to the date of the filing of the application, which picture shall be two inches
by two inches showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and
distinguishing manner;
   (G)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of
the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor;
   (H)   Applicant’s retailer’s occupation tax identification number or a
receipt showing that the applicant has already paid the retailer’s occupation
tax on the goods to be sold;
   (I)   The number of individuals who will be covered by the license. (If more
than the applicant himself or herself, then the information required in
divisions (A), (E), (F), and (G) above must be supplied for each such person.);
   (J)   Proof of fingerprinting performed at “Live Scan” vendor;
   (K)   Proof that the fingerprint records referenced in division (J) above
have been provided to the State Bureau of Investigation and applicant has paid
all applicable fees to the state police; and
   (L)   State police criminal background check records have been submitted for
approval by the Village Police Department upon application for applicant’s
license hereunder. Applicants and license holders are under a continuing duty
to update and/or amend their license applications during the period under which
any license issued by the Village Clerk is effective. Thus, if the information
submitted with respect to any item identified or outlined in this section
changes, the applicant and/or license holder is required to provide the Village
Clerk with updated information. Any failure to update and/or amend as described
in this paragraph may subject the applicant and/or license holder to a
revocation of the license or fines/penalties as described in §
113.99.
(Ord. 1026, passed 7-7-2016)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04  APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   If, after an applicant follows the procedures outlined in §
113.03, and the issuance of a license is deemed appropriate, a license shall be
issued by the Village Clerk, provided the applicant complies with the
requirements of §
113.05 and pays the fee provided for in §
113.06. Such license shall contain the number of the license, the date the same
is issued, the nature of the business authorized to be conducted, the
expiration date of the license, the place where said business may be carried on
under the license, and the name or names of the person or persons authorized to
carry on the business. The Village Clerk shall either issue a permit or inform
the applicant that his or her application is denied within one business day of
the filing of the application. For clerical purposes only, charitable groups
shall be issued licenses on blue card stock, and noncharitable groups shall be
issued licenses on yellow card stock.
(Ord. 1026, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 113.05  SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   Before any license shall be issued under §
113.04, the applicant shall file with the Village Clerk an instrument
nominating and appointing the Village Clerk as his or her true and lawful agent
with full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice or process for
and on behalf of said applicant in respect to any matters connected with or
arising out of the business transacted under said license, which instrument
shall also contain recitals to the effect that the applicant for said license
consents and agrees that service of any notice or process may be made upon said
agent, and when so made shall be taken and held to be as valid as if personally
served upon the person or persons applying for said license under this chapter,
according to the law of this or any other state, and waiving all claim or right
of error by reason of such acknowledgment of service or manner of service.
Immediately upon service of process upon the Village Clerk, as herein provided,
the Village Clerk shall send to the licensee at his or her last known address,
by registered mail, a copy of said process.
(Ord. 1026, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 113.06  FEE FOR LICENSE.
   The fee for a license shall be calculated based on the length of time during
which the license will be effective. The fees shall be calculated as follows:
$100 for the license fee; and $50 per person per day.
(Ord. 1026, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 113.07  TERM OF LICENSE; NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   The license issued under §
113.04 shall be valid only for the time stated in the application and shown on
the license. Said license shall be nontransferable.
(Ord. 1026, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 113.08  EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   Peddlers are required to exhibit their licenses at the request of any
citizen.
(Ord. 1026, passed 7-7-2016)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09  DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of any police officer of the village to require any
person seen peddling, and who is not known by such officer to be duly licensed,
to produce his or her peddler’s license and to enforce the provisions of this
chapter against any person found to be violating same.
(Ord. 1026, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 113.10  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked
by the Village Clerk, after notice and hearing, for any of the following
causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his or her business as peddler;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Any conviction involving moral turpitude; and/or
      (5)   Conducting the business of peddling in an unlawful manner or in
such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace
to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be served upon the licensee at
least two days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. 1026, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 113.11  APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Village Clerk in the denial of an
application for license as provided in §
113.04, or in the decision with reference to the revocation of a license as
provided in §
113.10, shall have the right of an appeal to the Public Protection Committee of
the Village Board of Trustees. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the
Chairperson of the Committee, within 14 days after the person has received
notice of the action complained of, a written statement setting forth fully the
grounds for the appeal. The Chairperson of the Committee shall set a time and
place for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given
to the appellant in the same manner as provided in §
113.10 for notice of hearing for revocation. The decision and order of the
Committee on such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 1026, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 113.12  HOURS OF ACTIVITY.
   No person shall engage in any activity described in division (1) of the
definition for “peddler and solicitor” in §
113.02 between the time of sundown and 9:00 a.m. or on any Sunday or legal
holiday.
(Ord. 1026, passed 7-7-2016)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or organization violating any provision of
this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500. Each day any
violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1026, passed 7-7-2016)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   DRUGS AND SUBSTANCES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Soliciting during Halloween
   
130.02   Discharging firearms, fireworks, and the like
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  SOLICITING DURING HALLOWEEN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to engage in the
practice of soliciting gratuities in association with the observance of that
day known as Halloween, such solicitation commonly known and referred to as
“trick or treating”, except as hereinafter set forth in division (B) below.
   (B)   Said form of solicitation may be engaged in only by children who have
not reached their fourteenth birthday and shall be engaged in only on that day
of each year known as Halloween and the one day immediately preceding said day.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to engage in said
solicitation more than five blocks from the place of residence of the person
engaging in the same.
(Ord. 567, passed 10-15-1981)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  DISCHARGING FIREARMS, FIREWORKS, AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall, within the limits of said village, fire or discharge any
cannon, musket, rifle, pistol, fowling piece, or other firearms or air guns,
except in cases of necessity, or in the performance of a lawful act or duty, or
discharge or set off any crackers, rocket, torpedo, squib, or other fireworks,
within the limits of said village, without permission first obtained from the
Village Clerk or some officer of said village.
(Ord. 12, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
130.01 and any parent, guardian, or anyone acting in their behalf who knowingly
permits a child to violate §
130.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $100 each time such an offense is committed. Each
solicitation in violation of §
130.01 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Pursuant to §
130.02, every person so offending shall forfeit and pay to said village not
less than $3 nor more than $25 for every such offense.
(Ord. 12, passed - -; Ord. 567, passed 10-15-1981)
CHAPTER 131:  DRUGS AND SUBSTANCES
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Possession of drug paraphernalia
   
131.03   Exempt items; determination
   
131.04   Forfeiture and seizure of property
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNABIS. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in § 3 of the Cannabis
Control Act (720 ILCS 550/3), as if that definition were incorporated herein.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in § 102 of the
state’s Controlled Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/102), as if that definition
were incorporated herein.
   DELIVER or DELIVERY. The actual constructive or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products, and materials of any kind which
are peculiar to and marketed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance in violation
of the Cannabis Control Act or the state’s Controlled Substance Act (720 ILCS
550/1 et seq., 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.). It includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Kits peculiar to and marketed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance;
      (2)   Isomerization devices peculiar to and marketed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a
controlled substance;
      (3)   Testing equipment peculiar to and marketed for private home use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of cannabis
or controlled substances;
      (4)   Diluents and adulterants peculiar to and marketed for cutting
cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons; and
      (5)   Objects peculiar to and marketed for use in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human
body, where applicable, the following items: water pipes; carburetion tubes and
devices; smoking and carburetion masks; miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine
vials; carburetor pipes; electric pipes; air-driven pipes; chillums; bongs; ice
pipes or chillers; and any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the
seller, is for use in violation of this section.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-7-1997)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02  POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   A person who knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia with
the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis
or a controlled substance into the human body, or in preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance for that use, is guilty of an ordinance violation.
   (B)   In determining intent under division (A) above, the trier of fact may
take into consideration the proximity of the cannabis or controlled substance
to drug paraphernalia or the presence of cannabis or a controlled substance on
the drug paraphernalia.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-7-1997)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03  EXEMPT ITEMS; DETERMINATION.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Items marketed for use in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
labeling, or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to
lawful research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale;
   (B)   Items marketed for, or historically and customarily used in connection
with the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packing, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance.
Items exempt under this division (B) include, but are not limited to, garden
hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes, and cigarette rolling papers; and
   (C)   Items listed in this section which are marketed for decorative
purposes, when such items have been rendered completely inoperable or incapable
of being used for any illicit purpose prohibited by this section.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-7-1997)
§ 131.04  FORFEITURE AND SEIZURE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Property subject to forfeiture under this section may be seized by any
peace officer upon process issued by any court having jurisdiction over the
property. Judgments in favor of the state in a criminal or forfeiture
proceeding based upon this section against a person’s specific property shall
serve as process authorizing a police officer to seize such property without
further process.
   (B)   Seizure by a police office may be made without process:
      (1)   If there is probable cause to believe that the property is directly
dangerous to health or safety and existing circumstances do not allow
reasonable time for the officer to obtain lawful process;
      (2)   In accordance with the provisions of The Code of Criminal Procedure
of 1963, as amended;
      (3)   The presence of items which are deemed violative of this section or
are otherwise subject to its forfeiture provisions in an inventory shall not
subject the entire inventory to seizure of forfeiture;
      (4)   Property taken or detained under this section shall not be subject
to replevin, but is deemed to be in the custody of the law enforcement
department or agency employing the seizing officer, subject only to the order
or judgments of the circuit court having jurisdiction over the forfeiture
proceedings. When property is seized under this section, the chief
administrative officer of the seizing department or agency may place the
property under seal, or remove the property to a place designated by him or
her;
      (5)   No disposition may be made of property under seal until the
validity of the seizure has been determined in a circuit court, unless such
court upon application therefor, orders the sale of perishable substances and
the deposit of the proceeds of the sale with the clerk of the court. The
circuit court shall rule on the validity of the seizure within 30 days after
the seizure, unless a continuance is obtained by a person from whom the items
were seized or a person who otherwise has standing to complain, or by the state
for good cause shown. In no event shall a continuance be granted to the state
pursuant to this section extend beyond 30 days. If judgment is entered in favor
of the person from whom the property is seized, all seized property shall be
returned immediately. Appeals from orders of the circuit court shall be heard
within 60 days from the date judgment is entered. Judgments in favor of the
person entitled to possession of the subject property shall serve as a mandate
to the agency holding said property to return same forthwith; and
      (6)   When property is forfeited under this section, the chief
administrative officer of the seizing department or agency may retain it for
official use, or forward it to the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs,
United States Department of Justice, or its successor agency, for disposition.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-7-1997)
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   Pursuant to §
131.02(A), a person who knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia with
the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis
or a controlled substance into the human body, or in preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance for that use, is guilty of an ordinance violation for
which the court shall impose a minimum fine of $750.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-7-1997)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN AREAS
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Comprehensive Plan and Map adopted by reference
   
150.02   Numbering of property
   
150.03   Prohibition of planting trees, shrubs, and bushes on village property
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND MAP ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Comprehensive Plan and Map Ordinance (Ord. 864) is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 864, passed 3-6-2003)
§ 150.02  NUMBERING OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section only, whenever the word LOT is used it
shall mean a tract of land having 50 front feet upon a street within said
village.
   (B)   Each lot shall have a separate number.
   (C)   All lots fronting on streets running north and south shall be numbered
consecutively commencing with the lot at the north end of the street. All even
numbers to be on the east side of the street and all odd numbers to be on the
west side of the street.
   (D)   All lots fronting on streets running east and west in said village
shall be numbered consecutively commencing with the lot nearest to South Main
Street in said village. All even numbers to be on the north side of the street,
and all odd numbers to be on the south side of the street.
   (E)   All lots on streets not included in divisions (C) and (D) above to be
numbered consecutively.
(Ord. 235, passed - -)
§ 150.03  PROHIBITION OF PLANTING TREES, SHRUBS, AND BUSHES ON VILLAGE
PROPERTY.
   Except as specifically authorized by the President and Board of Trustees, no
person shall plant or otherwise place upon village property, including
boulevards along village streets, any trees, shrubs, bushes, or other items of
a similar nature.
(Ord. 330, passed 8-19-1965)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any firm, person, or corporation who violates or resists the
enforcement of any provision of §
150.03, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $200 for each offense.
Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 330, passed 8-19-1965)
CHAPTER 151:  BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Building Inspector
   
151.02   Fire Inspector
   
151.03   Constructing an entrance from private property onto a public right-of-
way
   
151.04   Basement drainage
   
151.05   Street openings
   
151.06   Driveway culverts and drains
Plumbing Installation
   
151.20   Definition of plumbing
   
151.21   Who may engage in plumbing
   
151.22   Plumbing Inspector
   
151.23   Duties of Plumbing Inspector
   
151.24   Faulty plumbing
   
151.25   Permits
   
151.26   Fees; inspections
   
151.27   Water service
   
151.28   Sewer service
   
151.29   Soil and waste lines
   
151.30   Cross connections, traps, drains, and overflows
   
151.31   Clean-outs and vents
   
151.32   Test
   
151.33   Violations of state law
Building Permits
   
151.45   Purpose
   
151.46   Definition
   
151.47   Building permit required
   
151.48   Applications for building permits
   
151.49   Applications to be filed with Village Clerk
   
151.50   Granting of permits
   
151.51   Evasions
   
151.52   Fees
   
151.53   Swimming pools
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There be and hereby is established the office of Building Inspector
which shall constitute a single office to be filled by one person who shall
carry out the duties formerly carried out by such person or persons occupying
the offices of Building and Plumbing Inspector.
   (B)   The office of Building Inspector shall be filled by appointment of the
Village President with the consent and approval of the Board of Trustees, and
such Building Inspector’s term of office shall coincide with the term of office
of the Village President that appointed said Building Inspector to said office.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall be paid the sum as established by the
Village Board of Trustees through the Village Personnel Committee, pursuant to
the Personnel Ordinance.
(Ord. 813, passed 4-6-2000)
§ 151.02  FIRE INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Village Fire Inspector.
   (B)   Appointment to this position shall be made by the President with the
approval of the Board of Trustees and the appointee shall be an employee of the
village. Such person so appointed shall serve until that person’s resignation
or the appointment is terminated by the Village President with the approval of
the Board of Trustees. The appointment may be terminated at any time, either
with or without cause.
   (C)   The compensation of the Village Fire Inspector shall be as may be
determined from time to time by the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The qualifications of the Village Fire Inspector shall be those that
may be established from time to time by the Board of Trustees and shall include
the following:
      (1)   Shall be familiar with and able to interpret and enforce FP101 and
the provisions of the Life Safety Code as they relate to fire safety and
inspection;
      (2)   Shall no later than six months after appointment attend a fire code
enforcement course taught by a recognized educational institution;
      (3)   Shall be able to read and interpret technical manuals and
correspondence;
      (4)   Shall be able to respond and communicate timely and in a
technically correct manner; and
      (5)   Shall be of sound moral character.
   (E)   (1)   The duties of the Fire Inspector shall be those that are
assigned to that office from time to time by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The Village Fire Inspector is hereby designated the Enforcement
Officer of the Fire Prevention Code of the village and shall be responsible for
carrying out all duties and functions of the Enforcement Officer as provided
for in said code.
   (F)   (1)   The office of Village Fire Inspector shall be in the budgetary
area and responsibility of the general and administrative budget.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the Village Fire Inspector to
make every effort to stay within the budget for that position.
(Ord. 673, passed 11-2-1989)
§ 151.03  CONSTRUCTING AN ENTRANCE FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY ONTO A PUBLIC RIGHT-
OF-WAY.
   (A)   No street, driveway, or other access of any kind, hereinafter referred
to as an “entrance”, shall be constructed for access, ingress, or egress to or
from private property and a public right-of-way unless a permit for the same,
known as an entrance permit, shall first be issued by the village authorizing
the same.
   (B)   No construction for an entrance shall be started until an entrance
permit has been issued.
   (C)   Prior to construction of an entrance, an application for the same
shall be filed with the Village Clerk by delivery of the same to the office at
the Village Hall, 301 Dewey Drive, South Jacksonville, Illinois on the form
entitled “Entrance Permit”, a copy of which can be seen in division (F) below.
   (D)   The applicant shall supply with said application all information
requested in said form and such other information as is deemed necessary by the
village.
   (E)   All entrances shall be constructed in conformity with the ordinances
of the village as may be pertinent to the same and in conformity with State
Department of Transportation requirements and specifications and such other
requirements of the village as it deems necessary for the proper flow of
traffic and the safety of persons using the right-of-way and entrances.
   (F)   An Entrance Permit is shown below.
(Ord. 765, passed 1-16-1997)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04  BASEMENT DRAINAGE.
   All basements constructed after the date of this section shall comply with
the following requirements before the premises are occupied or otherwise used
for any purpose.
   (A)   Before the basement floor is installed, there shall be dug a ditch one
foot deep and one foot wide parallel and next to and inside all basement
exterior walls.
   (B)   The aforesaid ditch shall be so constructed to drain into a sump hole.
   (C)   The sump hole shall be so constructed to receive a sump casing no
smaller than 18 inches in diameter and at least two feet deep.
   (D)   A four-inch perforated pipe or tile shall be laid in the ditch leading
to the sump on a three-inch bed of washed rock and then covered with washed
rock, to completely fill the ditch.
   (E)   The sump hole with the liner shall be designed to receive the four-
inch pipe from at least two directions.
   (F)   There shall be installed in said sump hole a sump pump which will pump
the water from the sump to the outside of the basement toward the street side
of the building.
   (G)   All work done in compliance with this section shall be inspected by
the Building Inspector and it shall be the duty of the owner and contractor to
notify the Building Inspector when the same is available for such inspections
as may be required to ascertain compliance with this section. All new basements
shall be inspected by the Building Inspector before the basement floor is laid
and again upon the owner or contractor’s representation that the premises
comply with all the requirements of this section. All such inspections shall
take place prior to occupancy of the premises as hereinabove provided.
(Ord. 619, passed 6-20-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05  STREET OPENINGS.
   (A)   No street openings shall be permitted for the installation,
maintenance, or repair of sewer or water lines or services in any street,
alley, boulevard, or other public way without a permit having first been issued
authorizing said opening. Street opening permits shall be issued only upon
application for the same and upon payment of the fee of $10 in advance.
   (B)   All street openings shall be made and closed by the permit holder
according to such standards and specifications required by the Superintendent
of Streets for the particular opening authorized by the permit. The street
shall be relaid or repaved by the permit holder at his or her expense and shall
restore the surface and subsurface of the street to as good a condition as when
opened.
   (C)   Prior to the issuance of any permit by the village, the applicant for
such permit shall make satisfactory proof that said applicant, his or her
agents and employees are fully protected by insurance or bond covering public
liability, property damage, and worker’s compensation claims arising out of the
issuance of such permit.
   (D)   With respect to city streets under the jurisdiction of the Division of
Highways of the state, no provision herein shall be applicable when any such
provision is contrary to the statutes of the state or regulations of said
Division.
   (E)   The Superintendent of Streets shall, from time to time, inspect all
such excavations being made in or under any public street, alley, or public way
in the village to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this section.
Notice shall be given by the permit holder to said Superintendent of Streets at
least four hours before the work of refilling any such excavation commences.
   (F)   Any person, firm, or corporation making or maintaining any excavation
in any street or alley or other public way shall keep the same adequately
guarded by barricades and lights to protect persons and property from injury,
and shall indemnify and save harmless the village from any liability or expense
of any kind or nature whatsoever arising by, through, or on account of the
permit holder’s activities.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any way contrary to or
at variance with the terms of the permit issued therefor. Proper bracing shall
be maintained at all times to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground; and no
excavation shall have a subsurface width or length beyond that of the opening
made at the surface.
   (H)   (1)   No injury or damage shall be done to any pipes, cables, or
conduits in the making of any such excavation and notice shall be given to the
persons maintaining any such equipment or to any village department or officer
charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or affected by
the making of any excavation before such equipment shall be disturbed.
      (2)   The permit holder shall be responsible for and repair all damage to
the foregoing equipment caused by his or her activities.
      (3)   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub
or the roots thereof.
   (I)   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk
shall be constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient
for users.
   (J)   All applications for permits shall be made to the Building Inspector
or such other officer or department as shall be determined from time to time
and shall describe the location of the intended excavation, the size thereof,
the purpose therefor and the person, firm, or corporation doing the actual
excavating work and the name of the person, firm, or corporation for whom or
which the work is being done and shall contain an agreement that the applicant
will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be done.
(Ord. 463, passed 7-3-1975)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06  DRIVEWAY CULVERTS AND DRAINS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to
install or construct, or cause to be installed or constructed, any driveway
culvert or drain less than eight inches in diameter or less than 14 feet in
length.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to
install or construct, or cause to be installed or constructed, any driveway
culvert or drain pipe unless the same be made of cast iron or corrugated steel.
(Ord. 138, passed 8-18-1941)  Penalty, see §
151.99
PLUMBING INSTALLATION
§ 151.20  DEFINITION OF PLUMBING.
   The word or term, PLUMBING, as used in this subchapter, means and shall
include:
   (A)   All piping, fixtures, and appurtenances and appliances for a supply of
water for all personal or domestic purposes in and about buildings where a
person or persons live, work, or assemble. PLUMBING as used herein shall also
include piping, fixtures, and appurtenances, for a sanitary drainage and
related ventilation system within said buildings, and all piping fixtures and
appurtenances used to connect the said buildings with the source of water
supply on the premises, alley, or at the curb; and
   (B)   All piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances, drains and waste
pipes carrying domestic sewage from the foundation walls of a building, to the
sewer service lateral, located in the street, at the curb, or in the alley.
PLUMBING shall also include the installation, repair, maintenance, and work
upon and connection with such piping, fixtures, and appliances, drains and
waste pipes, except minor repairs by a person upon his or her own premises.
(Ord. 401, passed 10-21-1971)
§ 151.21  WHO MAY ENGAGE IN PLUMBING.
   No firm, association, or partnership shall engage in the business of
plumbing within the village, or represent themselves as plumbing contractors in
the business of plumbing or in any of its branches, unless at least one active
member or partner thereof continually engages in the conduct, supervision, or
performance of the firm, association, or partnership and unless said member of
the firm, or partner, shall be a licensed master plumber, as provided in the
state law.
(Ord. 401, passed 10-21-1971)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.22  PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The office of Plumbing Inspector shall be in charge of and supervised
by a competent inspector. Said inspector shall be appointed by the President,
with the approval of the Board of Trustees, and he or she shall hold his or her
office until his or her successor has been appointed for the said office.
   (B)   The Plumbing Inspector shall not engage in the occupation of plumbing,
house drainage, and plumbing ventilation, or be interested directly or
indirectly in any firm, corporation, or partnership engaged in the business of
plumbing, drainage, or plumbing ventilation, during his or her term of office.
(Ord. 401, passed 10-21-1971)
§ 151.23  DUTIES OF PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Plumbing Inspector to inspect the
plumbing, house drainage, and plumbing ventilation of buildings, of all
descriptions within the village, and see that all plumbing, house drainage, and
plumbing ventilating is installed and maintained according to the provisions of
this subchapter, it shall be his or her duty to inspect all plumbing or
drainage ventilation within any building within 24 hours after he or she has
received notice that the system is ready for inspection. He or she shall
inspect the installation in all buildings, during their course of construction,
remodeling, or altering, as often as is necessary for the proper discharge or
his or her duties.
   (B)   The Plumbing Inspector shall as far as may be necessary in the
discharge of his or her duties, have a right to enter at a reasonable hour in
the daytime any building or premises in the village.
   (C)   The Plumbing Inspector shall keep a record of all sewer and water
service connections which he or she has inspected. He or she shall also keep a
description of connections with measurements and these descriptions and
measurements shall be available to all village departments and to the public.
   (D)   The Plumbing Inspector shall keep a copy or record of all plans which
he or she has approved and all material and information, relative to his or her
office, shall be turned over to his or her successor, when duly appointed.
   (E)   The fees hereinafter provided shall be collected by and retained by
the Plumbing Inspector as his or her salary for the performance of the duties
herein specified.
   (F)   The Plumbing Inspector shall at the end of each six-month period
prepare and present to the Village Board a report on the work of his or her
office during such period.
(Ord. 401, passed 10-21-1971)
§ 151.24  FAULTY PLUMBING.
   Whenever the Plumbing Inspector shall have reasonable cause to believe that
the plumbing in any building constitutes a nuisance or is in violation of any
ordinance, he or she shall forthwith examine such plumbing. He or she shall
report his or her findings to the President and the Board of Trustees of said
village, and suggest such changes as are necessary to correct the plumbing in
said building. The President and Board of Trustees or such person as they may
designate shall notify the owner of such building, or his or her agent, of the
required changes, and set a reasonable time limit during which the necessary
changes or remodeling of the plumbing system shall be made.
(Ord. 401, passed 10-21-1971)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.25  PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to install
or remodel any plumbing, drainage, or plumbing ventilation system without first
securing from the Plumbing Inspector a permit to do such work. Every violation
of this provision shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $10 or more
than $100.
   (B)   Every person, firm, or corporation, before proceeding to lay sewer
pipe to any building or premises in the village, shall first secure a permit
from the Plumbing Inspector for each and every opening desired, and all
connections to the sewer shall be made under the direct supervision of the said
Plumbing Inspector, and no work shall be covered up until examined and approved
by him or her.
   (C)   Before the construction of any portion of the plumbing or drainage
system in any building or premises within the village is started, the owner or
his or her agent shall present to the Plumbing Inspector a suitable plan or
description of the work proposed to be done. Such plan and description of the
work, on being examined by the Plumbing Inspector, shall be either approved, or
rejected and so marked, and returned to the owner or the owner’s agent. No
portion of the work shown and described in the said plan or description shall
be installed until the said plan or description of the work has the approval of
the Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 401, passed 10-21-1971)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.26  FEES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Plumbing Inspector shall collect the following fees for all
permits issued for the installation, remodeling, or altering or plumbing
drainage, and plumbing ventilation in the village:
 
Permit Type               Fee
For each floor drain      $1
For each plumbing fixture $1
For each sewer            $2
For each water service    $1
 
      (2)   Provided, however, that should trips, other than the two trips
necessary for the purpose of making the test as required under this subchapter,
be made by the Plumbing Inspector on account of defective material or defective
work performed on said job, then the person obtaining said permit shall pay to
the said Plumbing Inspector the sum of $1 for each trip so made by him or her.
   (B)   In cases where any change or changes are made in soil, waste, or
ventilating pipes in any building and no change or changes are made in the
number or location of fixtures, then a single permit shall be obtained from the
Plumbing Inspector and the same shall cost the sum of $1.
(Ord. 401, passed 10-21-1971)
§ 151.27  WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   The water service pipe from the corporation cock in the main to a
point one foot back of the back face of the curb shall consist of copper pipe,
type K, not less than three-fourths of an inch in diameter. Service pipes
larger than two inches, for which a tee is inserted in the main, may be of cast
iron of Class “B” or stronger.
   (B)   On unpaved streets the water service shall be as described above,
except that it shall extend to within one foot of the sidewalk line.
   (C)   Water stopcocks and stop boxes shall be installed at a point one foot
back of the curb lines on paved streets and on unpaved streets shall be
installed one foot from the sidewalk line on the street side.
   (D)   Water service pipe from stopcock to inside of building shall be copper
pipe, type K3 not less than three-fourths of an inch in diameter, except those
larger than two inches which shall be of cast iron of Class “B” or stronger.
   (E)   Water meters shall be placed on all water services with outside
readers and located so that they will be accessible at all times for reading
and placed as near the incoming supply as possible and shall be sealed by the
Water Superintendent. No meter or said seal shall be removed without permission
from the Water Superintendent.
   (F)   On all water services between the stop boxes and the water meter the
joints necessary to be made in the copper services shall either be sweated or
welded joints. No bypasses or tees shall be installed in either the copper or
cast iron services between the stop box and the water meter.
   (G)   No person shall turn on, or cause to be turned on, the water at any
service without first securing the permission of the Water Superintendent.
   (H)   No more than one house shall be supplied from a single service without
providing stop boxes and stopcocks on each lateral run from such service.
   (I)   All water service shall be placed at a minimum depth of four feet
below the ground surface.
   (J)   Any water service installed into a house having an existing sewer of
vitrified clay pipe shall be installed a minimum distance of ten feet, if
possible, from the existing sewer.
   (K)   All residents outside of corporate limits using such water service
shall conform to all provisions of this subchapter.
   (L)   The curb cock shall be inverted key round way “Minneapolis” patterns
service boxes.
   (M)   Plastic pipe shall not be used in any hot water system. Rigid copper,
flexible copper, or galvanized pipe may be used in any hot water system.
(Ord. 401, passed 10-21-1971)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.28  SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   The sewer service from the main sewer in the street or from the curb
line shall be of cast iron soil pipe, of not less than four inches in diameter.
The joints on the cast iron soil pipe to be securely caulked with lead and
oakum and made watertight.
   (B)   Water and sewer services may be placed in the same excavated trench,
providing the sewer service is of cast iron pipe, tightly corked with lead and
oakum, and the water service is of copper or cast iron, and further provided
that an additional ledge of not less than one foot wide be constructed on one
side of the excavated sewer trench for the purpose of providing a firm
foundation for the water service. Sewers other than cast iron shall be
constructed in a separate trench which shall in no case be closer than five
feet to any water service.
   (C)   No steam, exhaust, blow off, or drip pipe shall be connected with the
sanitary sewer, storm sewer, house drain, soil or waste pipe; such pipes shall
be discharged into a tank or condenser from which a suitable outlet into the
sewer shall be provided.
   (D)   No connection from any cesspool or privy vault shall be made with any
storm sewer or unused or disconnected sewer in the village streets.
(Ord. 401, passed 10-21-1971; Ord. 443, passed 4- -1974)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.29  SOIL AND WASTE LINES.
   (A)   All soil and waste lines underground inside of buildings shall be cast
iron, with joints made of lead and oakum and caulked tight; pipe known as
standard weight may be used for buildings of less than four stories in height,
and extra heavy shall be used for buildings of four stories or more.
   (B)   Soil, waste, and vent pipes inside of buildings and above the ground
may be cast iron, galvanized steel, or plastic. Plastic pipe must be of
Schedule 40-IPS-DWV-D-LF Commercial Standard-272-65 and ASTM-D-265 with flame
spread rating of 10 as tested to ASTME 821. Where screwed pipe is used for soil
and waste lines, the fittings used shall be regular cast iron recessed drainage
fittings, while fittings on the vent lines may be either cast iron drainage or
regular galvanized malleable fittings.
   (C)   All changes in direction of soil and waste lines shall be made with
curved fittings, and branch connections shall be made with “Y” and eighth or
sixteenth bends. Sanitary tees and crosses will be allowed only on vertical
stacks.
   (D)   All soil, waste, and vent lines shall extend at least one foot above
the roof or be connected to the main vent stack above the highest fixture. Vent
and waste stacks shall be increased in size below the roof so that in no case
will the pipe extending through the roof be smaller than four inches in
diameter, with lead roof flashing made water tight, three inches in diameter
for plastic, with roof flashing of plastic made water tight. No vent shall
terminate near a window.
   (E)   All openings left in soil and waste lines for future fixture
connections shall be vented the same as if for immediate use.
   (F)   There shall be a clean out at the base of all stacks and at all points
where the direction of soil or waste is changed, and in horizontal runs at
points not more than 60 feet apart.
(Ord. 401, passed 10-21-1971; Ord. 443, passed 4- -1974)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.30  CROSS CONNECTIONS, TRAPS, DRAINS, AND OVERFLOWS.
   (A)   All water piping distributing domestic water supply shall be entirely
independent of any piping system conveying another water supply.
   (B)   All water storage tanks shall be properly covered to prevent entrance
to any contaminating material and no soil or waste pipe shall pass directly
over such water tanks without waterproof protection.
   (C)   No plumbing fixture or device shall be installed which will provide a
cross connection under any condition between the water distribution system and
the drainage system soil or waste pipe or which would allow backflow or back
siphonage of sewage or waste material into the water supply system.
   (D)   All fixtures where potable water can be obtained shall have over-rim
supplies and all fixtures having under-rim supplies shall be supplied from a
sub-source which cannot flow back into the potable water supply.
   (E)   Every water closet, urinal, sink, basin, wash tray, bath tub, and all
other fixtures that require a waste connection to the sewer shall be separately
trapped and vented above the highest fixture. Traps shall be placed as near to
the fixtures as possible and in no case more than two feet from fixture outlet.
Vents shall be placed as close to traps as possible, but in no case at a
greater distance than 18 inches.
   (F)   Refrigerator drains shall not be connected directly to the sewer, but
shall be trapped and drained into an open fixture, which shall be trapped and
connected to the sewer.
   (G)   The overflow pipe from a cistern shall in no case be connected to the
sewer.
   (H)   The overflow pipe from fixture shall in all cases be connected to the
fixture side of the trap.
   (I)   Floor drains shall be of a deep seal pattern with no less than a two
and one-half inch seal.
   (J)   Waste from a lavatory shall in no case be less than one and one-fourth
inch. Waste from tubs, sink, and shower shall in no case be less than one and
one-half inch. Waste from toilet shall be four inches, except plastic which
shall be three inches fitted with reducing closet ring flange four by three to
receive the fixture horn.
   (K)   No residence or building located within 150 feet of any sewer shall
install any private system for sewer disposal.
   (L)   Where a wash rack is installed for the purpose of washing automobiles,
it shall be installed with a bucket type trap of sufficient size.
(Ord. 401, passed 10-21-1971)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.31  CLEAN-OUTS AND VENTS.
   (A)   Traps must be prevented from siphonage by the installation of a system
of ventilating piping. The size of these vents shall be at least two inches
from toilets and one and one-half inches from other fixtures, except that
lavatories may be one and one-fourth inch. All clean outs shall be of same size
as the piping in which they are installed.
   (B)   Drum traps may be installed as wet vents on a continuous lavatory
waste and vent, as approved and directed by the Plumbing Inspector.
   (C)   Where a water closet is installed or provision made for one, the main
soil stack shall in no case be less than four inches except plastic or brass
which may be three inches in diameter, and the closet bend shall be no more
than six feet from the stack without being revented. In no case shall a sewer
be extended into a building without a stack at least four inches except plastic
or brass which may be three inches in diameter extended through the roof.
   (D)   All bathrooms shall be provided with an outside window when possible;
otherwise, a fresh air vent must be provided.
(Ord. 401, passed 10-21-1971)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.32  TEST.
   (A)   When the piping for a system of plumbing is complete, the entire
system shall be filled with water and proven tight, in the presence of the
Plumbing Inspector. Any pipes or fittings found defective must be removed. When
the fixtures have been set, the Plumbing Inspector shall make another
inspection and if the system is found complete, he or she shall provide the
owner or his or her agent with a certificate of inspection, signed by the said
Inspector and certifying that the system has been properly installed and
tested, as required by the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   In the inspection and certifying of installations, it is within the
power of the Plumbing Inspector to allow minor changes, when he or she has
satisfied himself or herself it is impossible to make a complete standard
installation.
(Ord. 401, passed 10-21-1971)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.33  VIOLATIONS OF STATE LAW.
   All persons, firms, and corporations shall comply with the provisions of an
Act of the General Assembly of the state entitled “An Act in relation to the
regulation of plumbing and licensing of Master Plumbers, journeymen Plumbers
and registration of plumber Apprentices, and for the protection of public
health, and repeal of a certain Act therein named”, filed June 17, 1935, and
any amendments which may from time to time be made thereto, and any violation
of said act or amendment or amendments shall constitute a violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 401, passed 10-21-1971)  Penalty, see §
151.99
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 151.45  PURPOSE.
   Sections
151.45 through
151.51 shall be construed to the end that the health, safety, and welfare of
the people of this village shall be protected and promoted by the provisions
herein set forth which are designed to ensure observance of the ordinances of
said village relating to building setback lines, ordinances relating to health
and sanitation, ordinances relating to fire protection and safety, and
ordinances relating to zoning as may be applicable and in effect.
(Ord. 166, passed 8-29-1946)
§ 151.46  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of §§
151.45 through
151.51, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any building, the greatest length of which exceeds ten feet. The
word BUILDING means also any building the greatest length of which does not
exceed ten feet, but which when attached to another building creates or makes a
combined overall length or width exceeding ten feet.
   ERECT and CONSTRUCT. Includes all phases and stages of erection and
construction.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, owner, lessee, contractor,
or subcontractor, and the plural of each.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
(Ord. 166, passed 8-29-1946)
§ 151.47  BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall after the effective date hereof erect or construct, or cause
to be erected or constructed, any building within the village, unless he or she
shall have first obtained a building permit from the Village Board.
(Ord. 166, passed 8-29-1946)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.48  APPLICATIONS FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   Any person desiring to erect or construct a building within said village
shall make written application to the Village Board for a building permit. Such
application shall state the name of the owner, the location of the proposed
building, the intended use of the proposed building, and a general description
thereof. Said application shall be accompanied by a copy of the proposed plans
and specifications of construction of such building showing in detail the exact
building line and location of the proposed building and the specifications of
the proposed construction thereof.
(Ord. 166, passed 8-29-1946)
§ 151.49  APPLICATIONS TO BE FILED WITH VILLAGE CLERK.
   All such applications, together with the accompanying plans and
specifications, shall be filed with the Village Clerk and it shall be the duty
of the Village Clerk to present such applications, plans, and specifications to
the Village Board at the first regular meeting thereafter.
(Ord. 166, passed 8-29-1946)
§ 151.50  GRANTING OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Upon such presentation, the Village Board shall review such
application, plans, and specifications and shall forthwith issue or cause to be
issued a building permit to the applicant, if it appears from such review that
the proposed building and the construction thereof conform to existing
ordinances then in effect.
   (B)   If upon such review it appears to the Village Board that the proposed
building or the construction thereof will violate any village ordinance, the
application shall be rejected and returned to the applicant, but said notice of
rejection shall be accompanied with a statement of the reason for such
rejection.
(Ord. 166, passed 8-29-1946)
§ 151.51  EVASIONS.
   No person shall willfully and with intent to evade or circumvent the
provisions of §§
151.45 through
151.51, prepare or submit a false or misleading application, or false or
misleading plans or specifications, and no person shall willfully and with
intent to evade the provisions of §§
151.45 through
151.51 alter or change such plans and specifications after the issuance of a
building permit.
(Ord. 166, passed 8-29-1946)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.52  FEES.
   (A)   No permit as required by the Building Code or any other ordinance of
the village shall be issued until the fees prescribed in this section shall
have been paid, which fees shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   For the construction of a basement:
         (a)   Effective March 1, 1990: $0.02 per square foot;
         (b)   Effective May 1, 1991: $0.025 per square foot; and
         (c)   Effective May 1, 1992: $0.03 per square foot.
      (2)   For new construction of a structure other than a garage:
         (a)   Effective March 1, 1990: $0.08 per square foot;
         (b)   Effective May 1, 1991: $0.10 per square foot; and
         (c)   Effective May 1, 1992: $0.12 per square foot.
      (3)   For construction of a private garage without regard to whether the
same is attached or unattached to another structure or may be part of a newly
constructed structure:
         (a)   Effective March 1, 1990: $0.03 per square foot;
         (b)   Effective May 1, 1991: $0.04 per square foot; and
         (c)   Effective May 1, 1992: $0.05 per square foot.
      (4)   For reroofing: $10;
      (5)   For demolition of a structure: $10;
      (6)   For street opening permits: $250;
      (7)   For any other construction of any kind or nature including, but not
limited to, remodeling of existing structures, installation of porches, siding,
fences, the fee shall be $3 per $1,000 valuation; and
      (8)   The minimum permit fee for any permit required by the village shall
be the sum of $10.
   (B)   No permits shall be required for the following: landscaping and
sidewalks; painting; home maintenance; street repairs or widening of streets;
replacement of same size windows; window awnings; dog houses; insulation; and
guttering.
(Ord. 677, passed 2-1-1990; Ord. 716, passed 4-15-1993)
§ 151.53  SWIMMING POOLS.
   Any container designed for the purpose of holding water and for the purpose
of human bathing or swimming, whether aboveground, on ground level or
belowground, that is eight feet in diameter and two feet in depth or greater,
or that can hold a total of 782 gallons shall constitute a swimming pool for
the purposes of any and all ordinances of the village that may pertain or refer
to a swimming pool or pools and the same shall be deemed a structure requiring
a building permit.
(Ord. 547, passed 8-7-1980)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
151.03 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
151.04 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each violation
of §
151.04.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
151.05 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense; a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (E)   Any person, persons, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
151.06 shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit and pay to the village not less
than $5 nor more than $50.
   (F)   The refusal or neglect of the property owner or agent to comply with
the order of the Village Board pursuant to §
151.24 shall constitute a violation of §§
151.20 through
151.33, punishable by a fine of not less than $10 or more than $100 for each
and every offense, and each day that said owner or agent shall persist in such
refusal or neglect shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (G)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
151.45 through
151.51 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than $5, nor more than $300 for each such offence.
      (2)   Any person who violates §§
151.45 through
151.51 by the erection or construction of a building without a building permit,
any person who violates §§
151.45 through
151.51 by the erection or construction of a building pursuant to a building
permit fraudulently obtained, and any person who with intent to evade the
provisions of §§
151.45 through
151.51 shall erect or construct a building other than in accordance with his or
her application, plans, and specifications, shall remove and abate such
building, upon written notice first being given, within 30 days from the
receipt of such notice; and if any person shall not remove or abate the same
within 30 days from the receipt of such notice, it shall be considered and
deemed a separate offense on the part of such person for each calender month or
portion thereof such person shall thereafter allow or permit such building to
stand.
   (H)   Pursuant to §
151.52, no work shall commence until a permit is obtained and in the event work
is commenced prior to obtaining a permit, there shall be a penalty of 100% of
the permit fee. The person penalized may appeal the penalty on written appeal
to the Building Committee filed not later than ten days after written notice of
penalty.
(Ord. 138, passed 8-18-1941; Ord. 166, passed 8-29-1946; Ord. 401, passed 10-
21-1971; Ord. 463, passed 7-3-1975; Ord. 619, passed 6-20-1985; Ord. 677,
passed 2-1-1990; Ord. 765, passed 1-16-1997)
CHAPTER 152:  FLOODPLAIN AREAS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Base flood elevation
   
152.04   Duties of the Code Enforcement Officer
   
152.05   Development permit
   
152.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
152.07   Protecting buildings
   
152.08   Subdivision requirements
   
152.09   Public health and other standards
   
152.10   Carrying capacity and notification
   
152.11   Variances
   
152.12   Disclaimer of liability
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the village
(hereinafter “village”) by the State Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-
12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and 5/11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 930, passed 6-4-2009)
§ 152.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The BASE
FLOOD elevation at any location is as defined in §
152.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings, and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also
includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more
than 180 days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these CRITICAL FACILITIES can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations); schools; hospitals; retirement homes and senior care
facilities; major roads and bridges; critical utility sites (telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers); and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous, or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts, or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface; and
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filing, grading, or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property, and their contents.
   FLOOD PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry flood proofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
      (1)   These two terms are synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction
of the village, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, or that may
be annexed into the village that are subject to inundation by the base flood.
The FLOODPLAINS of the village are generally identified as such on panel number
(s) 0178, 0179, and 0200 of the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Morgan
County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated August 18,
2009. FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by
the community.
      (2)   The FLOODPLAINS of those parts of the unincorporated county that
are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be
annexed into the village are generally identified as such on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map prepared for the county by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated August 18, 2009.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY for the floodplains of Mauvaise Terre Creek and
Tributary No. 2 shall be as delineated on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate
Map of Morgan County prepared by FEMA and dated August 18, 2009. The floodways
for each of the remaining floodplains of the village shall be according to the
best data available from the federal, state, or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions, and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency; and
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
152.07.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes REPETITIVE
LOSS buildings (see definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of a
structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred
repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work
done.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 930, passed 6-4-2009)
§ 152.03  BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood.
   (B)   The best available base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available data, the party shall finance the detailed
engineering study needed to replace the existing data with better data and
submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the
site.
      (1)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Illinois River,
Mauvaise Terre Creek, Town Brook, Tributary No. 1 and Tributary No. 2 shall be
as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the county wide Flood Insurance
Study of Morgan County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
August 18, 2009.
      (2)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an “AH
Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the
countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Morgan County.
      (3)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an “A Zone” on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Morgan
County shall be according to the best data available from federal, state, or
other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
      (4)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of the
unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
village or that may be annexed into the village shall be as delineated on the
100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Morgan County prepared
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated August 18, 2009.
(Ord. 930, passed 6-4-2009)
§ 152.04  DUTIES OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the village meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the Code Enforcement Officer shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
152.05;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
152.07 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or flood proof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
152.08;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
152.09;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
152.11 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty
actions outlined in §
152.99 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
      (12)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
      (13)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter
and make substantial damage determinations for structures within the
floodplain; and
      (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/
OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
(Ord. 930, passed 6-4-2009)
§ 152.05  DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Code Enforcement Officer. The Code Enforcement
Officer shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development does
not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
152.07; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (C)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
Code Enforcement Officer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base
flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by the base
flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey
data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been
filled after the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate Map is not in
the floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current Flood
Insurance Rate Map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance
Rate Map identification.
      (3)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for obtaining
from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits,
approvals or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of
activity. The Code Enforcement Officer shall not issue a permit unless all
other federal, state, and local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 930, passed 6-4-2009)
§ 152.06  PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development
will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement.
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the State Department of Natural Resources, Office of
Water Resources Statewide Permit Number 2.
         (a)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one foot.
         (b)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half foot at a point 1,000 feet upstream of
the proposed structure.
         (c)   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile.
         (d)   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging, or relocating the existing channel.
         (e)   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer
in the state and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/OWR permit.
         (f)   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 3: the permit is only applicable when dead men,
pier cells, or other similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers.
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 4.
         (a)   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge.
         (b)   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge.
         (c)   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake,
or stream.
         (d)   Supporting towers including foundation and poles shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris.
         (e)   All disturbed areas shall be returned to preconstruction grades
and revegetated.
         (f)   All State Commerce Commission, National Electrical Safety Code,
and federal requirements must be met.
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5.
         (a)   The boat dock must not extend more than 50 feet into a waterway
and no more than one quarter of the width of the waterway and shall not extend
beyond the navigational limited established by the IDNR and Corps of Engineers.
         (b)   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet.
         (c)   For L-Shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed 50% of the landowner’s shoreline
frontage nor 50 feet.
         (d)   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet of the projected
property line.
         (e)   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices.
         (f)   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water.
         (g)   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with floatation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides, or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible.
         (h)   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill.
         (i)   Non-floating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which
will minimize obstruction to flow.
         (j)   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or Corp of Engineers.
      (5)   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6: the following activities (not involving
fill or positive change in grade) are covered by this permit:
         (a)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells, or septic
tanks not crossing a lake or stream;
         (b)   The construction of light poles, sign posts, and similar
structures;
         (c)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios, and similar structures;
         (d)   The construction of properly anchored, un-walled, open
structures such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports;
         (e)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding 70
square feet in size, nor ten square feet in any dimension. Only one such
building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit; and
         (f)   The raising of existing buildings provided no changes are made
to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7.
         (a)   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end-section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection.
         (b)   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour
velocity of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the
use of riprap or other design measures.
         (c)   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation.
         (d)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8.
         (a)   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of
the river, lake, or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet of cover shall be provided. The
river, lake, or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition.
         (b)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         (c)   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5), shall
be provided with shutoff valves on each side of the body of water to be
crossed.
         (d)   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten days prior to
the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9.
         (a)   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap; steel sheet piling; cellular blocks; fabric-formed
concrete; gabion baskets; rock and wire mattresses; sand/cement filled bags;
geotechnical fabric materials; and natural vegetation and treated timber. URBAN
AREAS are defined as areas of the state where residential, commercial, or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten years. (The Department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban).
         (b)   In addition to the materials listed in division (A)(8)(a) above,
other materials (such as, tire revetments) may be utilized in rural areas
provided all other conditions of this permit are met.
         (c)   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies; garbage of debris; scrap lumber; metal refuse; roofing materials;
asphalt or other bituminous materials; or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the Environmental Protections Act (415 ILCS 5).
         (d)   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank, or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, 1,000 feet.
         (e)   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action.
         (f)   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project.
         (g)   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of
the bank.
         (h)   1.   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full-
width and cross-sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site.
            2.   For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along
the bank, toe of the bank, or other similar applications, in no case shall the
cross-sectional area of the natural channel be reduced by more than 10% nor the
volume of material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of the stream
bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and to
lessen the quantity of material required.
         (i)   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area.
         (j)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         (k)   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            1.   It is constructed in alignment with an existing seawall(s) or
gabion structure(s); and
            2.   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot.
         (l)   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state, and
federal laws and rules, shall not be placed in a floodway.
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10.
         (a)   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with
the requirements of the local floodplain ordinance.
         (b)   The principal structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988).
         (c)   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed 500 square
feet in size and must not deflect floodwaters onto another property and must
not involve the placement of any fill material.
         (d)   No construction shall be undertaken in, or within 50 feet of the
bank of the stream channel.
         (e)   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions.
         (f)   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing
structure shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition
must be submitted to IDNR/OWR for review.
         (g)   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11.
         (a)   The affected length of the stream shall not either singularly or
cumulatively exceed 1,000 feet.
         (b)   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel.
         (c)   The cross-sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
         (d)   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            1.   Removed from the floodway;
            2.   Used to stabilize an existing bank provided no materials would
be placed higher than the existing top of bank and provided the cross-sectional
area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than 10%, nor the
volume of material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of stream
bank;
            3.   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain area
such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            4.   Used to stabilize and existing levee provided the height of
the levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            5.   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
Department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            6.   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         (e)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 12.
         (a)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            1.   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the backwater
induced by the existing structure; and
            2.   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         (b)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge.
         (c)   The project shall not include any appreciable rising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR).
         (d)   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement, or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the Department’s Statewide Permit Number 9 (Minor Shoreline, channel and
Streambank Protection Activities) or Statewide Permit Number 11 (Minor
Maintenance Dredging Activities).
         (e)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide Permit Number 13.
         (a)   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state, and local
authorizations.
         (b)   The term TEMPORARY shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR.
         (c)   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks.
         (d)   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee, or dike across any
channel or floodway.
         (e)   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or
stream channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents
that the temporary structure will meet the requirements of Special Condition
Number 3 of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a
minimum, confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the
backwater induced by the temporary structure.
         (f)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition.
         (g)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction.
         (h)   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution
as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5).
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 930, passed 6-4-2009)
§ 152.07  PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage);
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
152.02.
   (B)   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods.
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material; and
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following.
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to floodwaters.
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation.
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            1.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            3.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
            4.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met.
      (4)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (5)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade.
      (6)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
      (7)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point.
      (8)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of time
after a flood event.
      (9)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
      (10)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry flood proofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic, and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice;
      (3)   Flood proofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls, and similar works are not considered
flood proofing for the purpose of this division (C).
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with division (B) above; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the state’s
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of division (D) above
unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck;
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel, or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      (5)   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      (6)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain;
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation;
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
      (10)   Must either: entirely be supported by jacks; or have a hitch jack
permanently mounted, have the tires touching the ground and be supported by
block in a manner that will allow the block to be easily removed by use of the
hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds, or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable;
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another user;
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits;
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single family lot and be accessory
to an existing principle structure on the same lot;
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage;
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area;
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $10,000 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 500 square feet;
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning;
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection
elevation; and
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 930, passed 6-4-2009)
§ 152.08  SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the village shall take into account hazards,
to the extent that they are known, in all official actions related to land
management use and development.
   (B)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
152.06 and
152.07.
   (C)   Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2). Streets, blocks lots, parks, and
other public grounds shall be located and laid out in such a manner as to
preserve and utilize natural streams and channels. Wherever possible, the
floodplains shall be included within parks or other public grounds.
(Ord. 930, passed 6-4-2009)
§ 152.09  PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
152.06 and
152.07, the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a flood proofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or flood proofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
152.07.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
flood proofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater. Flood
proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances
will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated
to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to all
critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 930, passed 6-4-2009)
§ 152.10  CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities in writing
30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of
the watercourse.
(Ord. 930, passed 6-4-2009)
§ 152.11  VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Plan Commission
for a variance. The Plan Commission shall review the applicant’s request for a
variance and shall submit its recommendation to the Plan Commission. The Plan
Commission may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   The Plan Commission shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of §
152.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
152.07 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair, or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in “historic
structures”, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of §§
152.06 and
152.07 subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
(Ord. 930, passed 6-4-2009)
§ 152.12  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 930, passed 6-4-2009)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Code Enforcement
Officer may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter
exists. The Code Enforcement Officer shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
   (B)   If such owner fails after ten days’ notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The village shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense;
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   (C)   (1)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall inform the owner that any
such violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and
therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue an order
requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall
be in writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work
order. The stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (3)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Plan Commission. Written notice of such
hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         (b)   The time and place of the hearing.
      (4)   At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Plan Commission shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or
revoked.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 930, passed 6-4-2009)
CHAPTER 153:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Official status
   
153.003   Intent and purpose
   
153.004   Application of regulations
   
153.005   General provisions
   
153.006   Rules and definitions
   
153.007   Variances; hardship
   
153.008   Inspection at subdivider’s expense
   
153.009   Building permits
Procedure for Approval
   
153.020   Pre-application procedure
   
153.021   Procedure for conditional approval of preliminary plat
   
153.022   Procedure for approval of final plat
Design Standards
   
153.035   Conformance to the general development plan of the village
   
153.036   Streets
   
153.037   Alleys
   
153.038   Easements
   
153.039   Blocks
   
153.040   Lots
   
153.041   Building setback lines
   
153.042   Parks, schools, and public areas
Required Land Improvements
   
153.055   Village Engineer certifications
   
153.056   Monuments and markers
   
153.057   Utility and street improvements
Plats, Plans, and Data
   
153.070   Pre-application review
   
153.071   Conditional (preliminary) approval
   
153.072   Final approval
   
153.073   Certification of plats
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001  TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
“Subdivision Regulations for the Village of South Jacksonville, Illinois” and
may be referred to herein as “this chapter” or “chapter”.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.002  OFFICIAL STATUS.
   These regulations are hereby made a part of the Official Comprehensive Plan
of the village.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.003  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To ensure sound, harmonious subdivision development and community
growth, and to safeguard the interest of the home owner, the subdivider, the
investor, and the village;
   (B)   To provide permanent assets to the locality and to the village;
   (C)   To prevent scattered development beyond existing public utilities and
prevent excessive development cost;
   (D)   To assure the development of land for the highest possible use with
all the necessary protection against deterioration and obsolescence; and
   (E)   To provide common grounds of understanding and a sound working
relationship between the village and the developer.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.004  APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall subdivide any tract of land which is located within
the village or in any unincorporated area which is located entirely or in part
within one and one-half miles of the nearest limits of the village except in
conformity with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   The subdivision plans and plats, proposed improvement to be installed,
and all procedures relating thereto, shall in all respects be in full
compliance with the regulations herein.
   (C)   All subdivisions requiring proposed streets shall have street
configurations as indicated on the Village Comprehensive Plan adopted March 6,
2003.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.005  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Wherever any subdivision of land shall hereafter be laid out within
the incorporated limits of the village or within contiguous territory not more
than one and one-half miles beyond the incorporated boundary of the village,
the subdivider thereof or his or her agent, shall submit preliminary and final
subdivision plats and plans to the Plan Commission. Said plats and plans of
proposed improvements, and all procedure relating thereto, shall in all
respects be in full compliance with these regulations.
   (B)   Until plats and plans for the subdivision are approved:
      (1)   No land shall be subdivided, nor any street laid out, nor any
improvements made to the natural land;
      (2)   No lot, tract, or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be
offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or
given; and
      (3)   No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, stormwater
drainage, sanitary sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service or
lighting, grading, paving or surfacing of streets, shall hereafter be made by
any owner or owners or his, her, or their agent, or by any public service
corporation at the request of such owner or owners or his, her, or their agent.
   (C)   All lands offered to the village for use as streets, highways, alleys,
schools, parks, playgrounds, and other public uses, shall be referred to the
Plan Commission for review and recommendation before being accepted by the
Village Board or by any other governing authority of the village.
   (D)   Where a tract of land proposed for subdivision is part of a larger,
logical subdivision unit in relation to the village as a whole, the Plan
Commission may, before approval, cause to be prepared a plan for the entire
area or neighborhood; such plan to be used by the Plan Commission as an aid in
judging the proposed plat. The Village Engineer shall cooperate with the Plan
Commission in the preparation of this plan and shall furnish such surveys and
data as may be necessary.
   (E)   Whenever an area is subdivided into lots of 30,000 square feet or more
and there are indications that such lots will eventually be re-subdivided into
smaller building lots, consideration shall be given to the street and lot
arrangement of the original subdivision so that additional minor streets can be
located which will permit a logical arrangement of smaller lots.
   (F)   (1)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these
regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements.
      (2)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of these regulations
upon the use of land are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of these regulations or of
any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive, or which impose higher standards or
requirements, shall govern.
      (3)   These regulations are not intended to abrogate any easement,
covenant, or any other private agreement, provided that where the regulations
of these regulations are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements than such easements, covenants, or other private agreements, then
the requirements of these regulations shall govern.
      (4)   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of
these regulations are for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions thereof.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.006  RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   In the construction of these regulations, the rules and definitions
contained in this section shall be observed and applied, except when the
context clearly indicates otherwise.
   (B)   (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and
words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the
plural the singular.
      (2)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
      (3)   The word “may” is permissive.
      (4)   The word “lot” shall include the words “plot”, “piece”, and
“parcel”.
      (5)   The phrase “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for”,
“designed for”, “intended for”, “maintained for”, and “occupied for”.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way primarily for vehicular traffic along the
side or in the rear of properties, which affords only a secondary means of
access to abutting properties.
      AMERICAN DISABILITIES ACT. The rules and policies providing for
handicapped accessibility, and the like.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, bulkhead lines or shore
lines of waterways, or corporate boundary lines of the village.
      BUILDING. Any structure designed, built, or intended for the shelter,
enclosure, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of
any kind.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line within a lot or other parcel of land, so
designated on the plats of the proposed subdivision, between which and the
adjacent boundary of the street upon which the lot abuts, the erection of a
building is prohibited.
      COMMISSION. Whenever the words “Commission”, “Plan Commission”, or
“Village Plan Commission” are used in these regulations, they shall mean the
PLAN COMMISSION of the Village of South Jacksonville, Illinois.
      CROSSWALK. A public right-of-way of land located across a block to
provide pedestrian access to adjacent streets or areas.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street having one open end and being permanently
terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
      DEVELOPMENT PLANS. Documents including the preliminary plat (general
plan) and construction plans and specifications by which streets and utilities
are to be constructed.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by
the general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons for a
specific purpose or purposes.
      ENDANGERED SPECIES. Flora and fauna species listed as threatened or
endangered with the state.
      GENERAL COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The general comprehensive street,
roadway, utility, and zoning plan.
      IEPA. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency refers to that agency
of the State of Illinois which establishes guidelines, specifications, and
procedures, and permits the installation of water and sewer facilities.
      LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
transfer of ownership or for building development.
      MINIMUM SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS. The minimum requirements for the
development of a subdivision within the jurisdictional area of the Village of
South Jacksonville. The village may stipulate and require facilities exceeding
the minimum requirements.
      NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE. The program of rules and policies of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, which establishes the boundaries of
floodways.
      PARKWAY. A route intended to be used primarily by passenger vehicles
which may have a varying width of right-of-way and which right-of-way is or is
intended to be developed with a park-like character.
      PLAT. A plan, map, drawing, or chart on which the subdivided plan of the
subdivision is presented and which he or she submits for approval and intends
to record in final form.
      PLAT, FINAL. The drawings and documents presented for final approval and
as described in §
153.022. The FINAL PLAT shall meet the requirements of Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 109,
and amendments thereto.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY (GENERAL PLAN). The drawings, special provisions, and
documents presented for conditional approval and as described in §
153.021, and the general comprehensive development plans, meeting the
requirements of §§
153.035 through
153.042.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The land, rights, or other property necessary for roadways
and their appurtenances.
      ROADWAY. The paved area for vehicular traffic existing on a street right-
of-way and not the street right-of-way width.
      STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR ROAD AND BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION. These are
standard specifications and amendments thereto adopted by the Illinois
Department of Transportation/Division of Highways referencing construction
procedures, construction materials, and construction equipment which shall be
complied with during the construction of streets and public utilities.
      STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR WATER AND SEWER MAIN CONSTRUCTION IN
ILLINOIS. These standard specifications and supplements thereto reference the
construction procedures and construction materials which shall be used during
the installation of water or sewer utilities.
      STREET. An area which primarily serves or is intended to serve as a
vehicular and pedestrian access to abutting lands or to other streets. The word
STREET refers to the width of the street right-of-way or easement, whether
public or private, and shall not be considered as the width of the roadway or
paving or other improvement on the street right-of-way.
      STREET, APPROVED. Any street, whether public or private, meeting
standards and specifications of the Village of South Jacksonville.
      STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which is used to carry traffic from minor
streets to primary and secondary streets. COLLECTOR STREETS serve local
vehicles with a specific destination in mind. Traffic accesses COLLECTOR
STREETS from local residential minor streets. A COLLECTOR STREET is a street of
considerable continuity which serves or is intended to serve as a major traffic
artery between the various sections of the South Jacksonville area, and
complies with the planned continuity as indicated on the general comprehensive
development plan.
      STREET, INDUSTRIAL/COMMERCIAL. A street which serves or is intended to
service as access for an industrial park or commercial and warehousing area
which will have regular vehicular traffic up to and including 80,000 pound
gross vehicular weight (80,000 # G.W.).
      STREET, MAJOR. See PRIMARY STREET.
      STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS. A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to
primary streets and expressways, and which provides access to abutting
properties and protection to local traffic from fast, through-moving traffic on
the primary streets and expressways.
      STREET, MINOR. A street intended primarily as access to abutting
properties. MINOR STREETS may be considered as local residential streets and
should have a minimum of two moving traffic lanes allowing parking on one side
of the street. The minimum street width shall be 30 feet from face to face of
curb.
      STREET, PRIMARY. A street of considerable continuity which serves or is
intended to serve as a major traffic artery between the various sections of the
South Jacksonville area, as shown on the general comprehensive development
plan. PRIMARY STREETS shall be adequate to accommodate through traffic as well
as local traffic needs. THROUGH TRAFFIC is considered to be traffic which
originates outside the village corporate limits and is traveling to a
destination within or outside of the village corporate limits. PRIMARY/ARTERIAL
STREETS shall have a minimum width of 44 feet face-to-face of curbs.
      STREET, PRIVATE. Any street which is under the jurisdiction of an
individual, corporation, or trustee, or any street which is privately owned or
established.
      STREET, PUBLIC. All primary, secondary, collector, and minor streets
which are shown on the subdivision plat and are to be dedicated for public use.
      STREET, SECONDARY. A street which carries traffic from minor and
collector streets to the primary street system, and designated as SECONDARY
STREETS on the general development plan.
      SUBDIVIDER. The person or persons responsible for preparing and recording
the plats of the subdivision and for carrying out all appropriate requirements
outlined in these regulations.
      SUBDIVISION. As defined by 765 ILCS 205/1 - Plat Act, the division of
land into two or more parts, any of which is less than five acres, for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or building
development, including all public streets, alleys, ways for public service
facilities, parks, playgrounds, school grounds, or other public grounds, and
all the tracts, parcels, lots, or blocks, in numbering all such lots, blocks,
or parcels by progressive numbers, giving their precise dimensions, provided,
however, that the following shall not be considered a subdivision and shall be
exempt from the requirements of these regulations:
         (a)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of
five acres or more in size, which does not involve any new streets or easements
of access;
         (b)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
         (c)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of
adjoining and contiguous land;
         (d)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interest therein for use as
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities which does not
involve any new streets or easements of access;
         (e)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or a public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
         (f)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or
grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed for public use;
         (g)   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
and
         (h)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land existing on
May 5, 1960, into no more than two parts and not involving any new streets or
easements of access.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.007  VARIANCES; HARDSHIP.
   Where the Plan Commission finds that extraordinary hardships may result from
strict compliance with these regulations, it may vary the regulations so that
substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured; provided that
such variation will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
the general development plan of the village or these regulations.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.008  INSPECTION AT SUBDIVIDER’S EXPENSE.
   (A)   All public improvements proposed to be made under the provisions of
these regulations shall be inspected during the course of construction by the
Village Engineer or a duly designated deputy.
   (B)   All fees and costs connected with such inspection and in reviewing the
plans and specifications for such improvements shall be paid by the subdivider.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.009  BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued providing for the improvement of
any lot in said subdivision until there has been filed with the Building
Commissioner a certified copy of said plat of subdivision as recorded or
registered in the office of the Recorder of Deeds or Registrar of Titles, as
the case may be.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for the improvement of any lot
until the plans and specifications for the public improvements have been
approved by and filed with the President and Board of Trustees, nor until cash
or a surety bond as provided by these regulations has been posted with the
village.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL
§ 153.020  PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Previous to the filing of an application for conditional approval of
the preliminary plat (general or preliminary subdivision plan), the subdivider
shall submit to the Plan Commission plans and data as specified in §§
153.070 through
153.072. This step does not require formal application, fee, or filing of plat
with the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Within 30 days, the Plan Commission shall inform the subdivider that
the plans and data as submitted or as modified do or do not meet the objectives
of these regulations. When the Plan Commission finds the plans and data do not
meet the objectives of these regulations, it shall express its reasons
therefor.
   (C)   No plat will be approved for a subdivision which is subject to
periodic flooding or which contains poor drainage facilities and which would
make adequate drainage of the lots and the streets impossible. However, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the
village, make the area completely safe for occupancy, existing and future, and
provide adequate lot and street drainage, the preliminary plat of the
subdivision may be approved.
   (D)   The topographical and profile studies to be submitted with the
subdivision plat shall have on their face the signed statement of a registered
professional engineer, and the owner of the land or his or her duly authorized
attorney, to the effect that to the best of their knowledge and belief, the
drainage of surface waters will not be changed by the construction of such
subdivision or any part thereof, or, that if such surface water drainage will
be changed, reasonable provision has been made for collection and diversion of
such surface waters into public areas, or drains which the subdivider has a
right to use, and that such surface waters will be planned for in accordance
with generally accepted engineering practices so as to reduce the likelihood of
damage to the adjoining property because of the construction of the
subdivision.
   (E)   If the land being subdivided is located within a special flood hazard
area as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or situated
within 500 feet of any surface drain or watercourse serving a tributary area of
640 acres or more, no map, plat, or subdivision of lands shall be approved
until reviewed by the Department of Transportation, either independently or in
cooperation with federal, state, or local agencies, for the purpose of
determining, for the protection of persons and property, the flood hazards
involved, and a report thereon filed by the Department with the County
Recorder.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.021  PROCEDURE FOR CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   On reaching conclusions informally as recommended in §
153.020 above regarding his or her general program and objectives, the
subdivider shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat, together with
improvement plans and other supplementary material as specified in §§
153.070 through
153.072.
   (B)   Ten copies of the preliminary plat and supplementary material
specified shall be submitted to the Plan Commission with written application
for conditional approval at least 20 days prior to the meeting at which it is
to be considered.
   (C)   At the time of filing an application for conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the application shall be accompanied by a check or money
order to the Village Clerk in the amount of $200 for one to ten lots; and $50
for each additional five lots or fraction thereof to cover the cost of
reviewing and verifying the proposed plat. The Village Clerk shall surrender
the collected fee to the Village Treasurer for deposit in the General Fund of
the village.
   (D)   Following review of the preliminary plat and other material submitted
for conformity thereof to these regulations and negotiations with the
subdivider on changes deemed advisable and the kind and extent of improvements
to be made by him or her, the Plan Commission shall, within 30 days, act
thereon as submitted or modified, and if approved, the Plan Commission shall
express its approval as conditional approval and state the conditions of such
approval, if any, or if disapproved, shall express its disapproval and its
reasons therefor.
   (E)   The action of the Plan Commission shall be noted on three copies of
the preliminary plat and supporting documentation, referenced and attached to
any conditions determined. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider, one
retained by the Plan Commission, and one kept on file at Village Hall.
      (1)   After conditional approval of a preliminary plat by the Plan
Commission, the same shall be submitted to the Village Board for approval.
      (2)   Within 30 days after application for approval of the preliminary
plat, the Village Board shall approve or disapprove it. If the Village Board
approves the preliminary plat, it shall notify the Plan Commission of such
approval. If the Village Board disapproves the preliminary plat, it shall set
forth its reasons and additional requirements in writing and provide the
applicant and the Plan Commission with a copy of the same. The applicant and
the Plan Commission shall then take such additional proceedings as may be
necessary to comply with the requirements and reasons of the Village Board.
   (F)   Conditional approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute
approval of the final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression of
approval to the layout submitted on the preliminary plat as a guide to the
preparation of the final plat, which will be submitted for approval of the Plan
Commission and for recording upon fulfillment of the requirements of these
regulations and the conditions of the conditional approval, if any.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.022  PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved, and, if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that
portion of the approved preliminary plat which he or she proposed to record and
develop at the time, provided, however, that such potion conforms to all
requirements of these regulations.
   (B)   Application for approval of the final plat shall be submitted in
writing to the Plan Commission at least 20 days prior to the meeting at which
it is to be considered.
   (C)   Ten copies of the final plat and other exhibits required for approval
shall be prepared as specified in §§
153.070 through
153.072, and shall be submitted to the Plan Commission within six months after
approval of the preliminary plat; otherwise, such approval shall become null
and void unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the Plan
Commission.
   (D)   The final plat submitted to the Plan Commission for approval shall be
accompanied by a notice from the Board of Trustees of the village stating that
there has been filed with and approved by that Board, one of the following:
      (1)   A certificate by the subdivision developer’s engineer that all
improvements and installations to the subdivision that will be dedicated for
public use have been made or installed in accordance with the subdivision
regulations and specifications;
      (2)   A bond which shall:
         (a)   Run to the President and Board of Trustees of the village;
         (b)   Be in an amount determined by the President and Board of
Trustees to be sufficient in amount to complete the improvements and
installations in compliance with these regulations;
         (c)   Be with surety by a company entered and licensed to do business
in the state and/or other security acceptable to the Board; and
         (d)   Specify the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations.
      (3)   Within 30 days after application for approval of the final plat,
the Plan Commission shall approve or disapprove it. If the Plan Commission
approves, it shall affix its seal upon the plat together with the certifying
signature of its President and Secretary. If it disapproves, it shall set forth
its reasons in its own records and provide the applicant with a copy.
   (E)   (1)   After approval of the final plat by the Plan Commission and the
fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations, one tracing of the final
plat of the subdivision, drawn in ink not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in
size, as well as an electronic copy in an acceptable CAD format, shall be
submitted to the Village Board for approval.
      (2)   Action must be taken by the Village Board within 30 days after the
final plat has been submitted for approval.
      (3)   Upon approval of the Village Board, the developer shall record the
plat with the Recorder or Registrar of Titles of the county within four months.
If not recorded within this time, the approval shall be null and void.
Immediately after recording, the original or a duly certified copy shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.035  CONFORMANCE TO THE GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN OF THE VILLAGE.
   The subdivision of land, including the arrangement, character, extent,
width, grade, and location of all expressways, streets, alleys, crosswalks,
easements, sites for parks, playgrounds and schools, or other land to be
dedicated for public use, shall conform to the general development plan of the
village as approved by the Plan Commission and adopted by the Village Board and
other responsible governmental bodies of the village, as a part of the official
plan of the village.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.036  STREETS.
   (A)   All streets shall be considered in their relation to existing and
planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety,
and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served
by such streets.
   (B)   Where such is not shown in the general development plan, the
arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall either:
      (1)   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing
principal streets in surrounding areas; or
      (2)   Conform to a plan for the area or neighborhood approved or adopted
by the Plan Commission to meet a particular situation where topographical or
other conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets
impracticable.
   (C)   Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
   (D)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
expressway or primary street, as shown on the general development plan, the
Plan Commission may require marginal access streets, reverse frontage with
screen planting contained in a nonaccess reservation, at least ten feet wide,
along the rear property line, deep lots with rear service alleys, or such other
treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties
and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
   (E)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad or expressway,
the Plan Commission may require a street approximately parallel to and on each
side of such railroad or expressway, at a distance suitable for the appropriate
use of the intervening land, as for park purposes in residential districts, or
for commercial or industrial purposes in appropriate districts. Such distances
shall also be determined with regard for the requirements of approach grades
and future grade separations.
   (F)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets or alleys shall be
prohibited.
   (G)   All street intersections and confluences should encourage safe traffic
flow.
   (H)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
   (I)   Tangents shall be introduced between reverse curves on all streets
(see Table of Minimum Standards).
   (J)   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one point
by more than one degree, they shall be connected by a curve with a radius
adequate to ensure clear sight distances (see Table of Minimum Standards).
   (K)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles and no street shall intersect any other street at less than 70
degrees.
   (L)   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded with a radius
as specified in the Table of Minimum Standards. The Plan Commission may permit
comparable fillets or chords in place of rounded corners.
   (M)   Street right-of-way widths shall be as shown in the general
development plan and where not shown therein shall be as specified in the Table
of Minimum Standards.
   (N)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations; and where the Plan Commission finds it will
be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
   (O)   Dead-end streets (cul-de-sacs) designed to be so permanently, shall
not be longer than 1,200 feet from the intersection of the origin through the
center of the circle to the end of the right-of-way, and shall be provided at
the closed end with a turnaround having an outside pavement diameter of at
least 80 feet, and a street property line diameter of at least 100 feet.
   (P)   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused with
the names of existing streets. Existing street names shall be projected
wherever possible. Street names shall be subject to the approval of the Plan
Commission.
   (Q)   (1)   The full width of the right-of-way shall be graded to the
required cross section.
      (2)   All unsuitable sub-base or sub-grade material shall be removed and
shall be replaced with stable, compacted material in conformance with generally
acceptable engineering and construction practices.
      (3)   The centerline grade shall not be less than 0.5% and shall not
exceed 3% for collector and primary streets, nor 8% for any local and cul-de-
sac streets.
      (4)   Vertical curves shall be used whenever a change in centerline
gradient occurs except where the algebraic difference in the gradient is 0.5%
or less. The length of the vertical curve shall be in accordance with the
minimum standards for street design.
      (5)   All pavement thicknesses and materials, including surface/binder
base courses, and sub-base courses, shall be designed in accordance with
Illinois Department of Transportation’s Bureau of Local Roads and Streets
Manual and all subsequent revisions thereto as published by the division of
Highways of the State Department of Transportation. The minimum thicknesses for
streets shall be in accordance with the minimum standards for street design.
Design data shall be submitted to the village together with copies of soil test
reports as necessary at the time of the plan submittal.
      (6)   Pavements for local residential and cul-de-sac streets, collector/
primary or industrial/commercial streets shall be constructed with the
following materials.
         (a)   Local residential/cul-de-sac streets.
            1.   Rigid pavements shall be constructed to the following minimum
requirements: compacted subgrade with a four-inch aggregate sub-base, type B,
and a Portland cement concrete pavement having a minimum nominal thickness of
six inches and shall be constructed of PCC concrete which shall have a minimum
14-day compressive strength of 3,500 pounds per square inch and shall not
contain less than six bags of cement per cubic yard of concrete, and shall
contain no less than 3% nor more than 6% entrained air. Slump shall not be less
than two inches, nor more than four inches. IDOT-approved mix for concrete
shall be used throughout; or
            2.   Flexible pavements shall be constructed to the following
minimum requirements: the six inch aggregate base course, Type A, shall be
constructed of IDOT-approved CA-6 materials on a compacted subgrade. The
bituminous concrete binder course shall have a nominal thickness of one and
one-half inches and shall meet the mix design approved by IDOT superpave
requirements. The bituminous concrete surface course shall be constructed to a
nominal thickness of one and one-half inches and the materials and mix design
shall comply with the IDOT-approved superpave requirements.
         (b)   Collector/primary streets.
            1.   Rigid pavements shall be constructed to the following minimum
requirements: compacted subgrade with four-inch aggregate sub-base, type B, and
a Portland cement concrete pavement having a minimum nominal thickness of eight
inches and shall be constructed of PCC concrete which shall have a minimum 14-
day compressive strength of 3,500 pounds per square inch and shall not contain
less than six bags of cement per cubic yard of concrete, and shall contain not
less than 3% nor more than 6% entrained air. Slump shall not be less than two
inches nor more than four inches IDOT-approved mix for concrete shall be used
throughout; or
            2.   Flexible pavements shall be constructed to the following
minimum requirements: the eight-inch aggregate base course, Type A, shall be
constructed of IDOT-approved CA-6 materials on a compacted subgrade. The
bituminous concrete binder course shall have a nominal thickness of two and
one-half inches and shall meet the mix design approved by IDOT superpave
requirements. The bituminous concrete surface course shall be constructed to a
nominal thickness of one and one-half inches and the materials and mix design
shall comply with the IDOT-approved superpave requirements.
         (c)   Industrial or commercial streets. The minimum composition and
thickness of materials for industrial/commercial streets shall be as determined
by an IDOT-approved procedure for pavement design of an 80,000 pound truck
route with the minimum nominal requirements as follows:
            1.   Rigid pavements shall be constructed to the following minimum
requirements: compacted subgrade with a four-inch aggregate sub-base, type B,
with a Portland cement concrete pavement having a minimum nominal thickness of
ten inches and shall be constructed of PCC concrete which shall have a minimum
14-day compressive strength of 3,500 pounds per square inch and shall not
contain less than six bags of cement per cubic yard of concrete, and shall
contain not less than 3% nor more than 6% entrained air. Slump shall not be
less than two inches nor more than four inches IDOT-approved mix for concrete
shall be used throughout; or
            2.   Flexible pavements shall be constructed to the following
minimum requirements: the four-inch aggregate sub-base, Type B, shall be
constructed of IDOT-approved materials on a compacted subgrade. The total depth
bituminous concrete base binder and surface shall have a minimum nominal
thickness of 12 inches and shall meet the mix design approved by IDOT superpave
requirements.
      (7)   Curbs and gutters shall be constructed on all streets and shall be
a combination (integral) concrete curb and gutter. Materials shall meet the
requirements and mix design for concrete as determined by IDOT. The curbs shall
not be less than 18 inches in overall width, have a minimum six inches height,
and shall have a minimum thickness of nine inches. Depression of the six inch
curb height at proposed entrances will be allowed.
      (8)   (a)   The subdivider shall construct sidewalks four inches thick
and shall have a minimum width of four feet wide of Portland cement as per
village specifications along all street segments unless otherwise specifically
required or allowed by the Board of the village.
         (b)   Wider than standard sidewalks may be required by the village in
the absence of a boulevard in the vicinity of schools, commercial areas, and
other places of public assembly; and the village may require the construction
of sidewalks in locations other than required under the preceding provisions of
these regulations if such walks are necessary, in the opinion of the Plan
Commission, for safe and adequate pedestrian circulation.
      (9)   (a)   Driveways shall be constructed of either PCC concrete having
a nominal thickness of six inches constructed on a compacted subgrade or
bituminous concrete over a compacted aggregate base having thickness of two
inches and six inches respectively on a compacted subgrade.
         (b)   Forming and curing of PCC concrete for sidewalks and driveways
shall be in conformance with the applicable portions of the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.
         (c)   Slip forming of sidewalks will not be allowed.
   (R)   Street grades shall provide proper relation between the street and the
first floor elevation of the houses or buildings and to permit convenient and
economical access to and drainage of the lots.
   (S)   Table of minimum standards.
Minimum Standards for Street Design
Street Type Right-of-Way Width Pavement Width Composition
Minimum Standards for Street Design
Street Type  Right-of-  Pavement Width                             Composition
             Way Width
Collector/   60’      36’ (face to face of curb)               8” PCC with 4” sub-base or 4” bituminous concrete with 8” aggregate base
primary
Cul-de-sac   80’ radiu50’ radius (face to face of curb)        6” PCC with 4” sub-base or 3” bituminous concrete with 6” aggregate base
Curbs and                                                          6” rise on curb from flow line: three-fourths of an inch per foot slope on
gutters      -          18” minimum width                        gutter to flow line PCC, minimum of B6.12 configuration 9” nominal thickness
                                                                   for gutter
Industrial/  80’ to   44’ (face to face of curb)               10” PCC with 4” sub-base or 12” bituminous concrete over 4” sub-base
commercial   100’
Minor/local  50’      30’(face to face of curb)                6” PCC with 4” sub-base or 3” bituminous concrete with 6” aggregate base
residential
             As
             determined
Primary/     by IDOT
arterial     Bureau of  -                                          -
             Local
             Roads
             policies
Residential/
commercial   -          12’ minimum width                        PCC, 6” nominal thickness or 2” bituminous concrete over 6” CA-6
driveway
pavements
Sidewalks    -          4’ minimum width or as required for area PCC, 4” nominal thickness
                        served
 
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.037  ALLEYS.
   (A)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial, business, and industrial
districts, except that the Plan Commission may waive this requirement where
other definite and assured provision is made for service access, such as off-
street loading, unloading, and parking consistent with and adequate for the
uses proposed.
   (B)   Alleys in residential areas shall not be permitted, except where
deemed necessary, and on the recommendation of the Plan Commission.
   (C)   The width of an alley shall be 20 feet in residential areas and 30
feet in commercial, business, and industrial districts.
   (D)   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
but, where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movement.
   (E)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but, if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead-end, as
determined by the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.038  EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements centered on interior side, rear, or side lot lines shall be
provided for utilities where necessary and shall be at least ten feet wide.
   (B)   A ten-foot easement around the perimeter of a subdivision as well as a
15-foot easement adjacent to both sides of street rights-of-way shall be
provided for utility placement.
   (C)   Easements shall be designed to provide continuity from block to block.
   (D)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage way,
channel, or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse, and
such further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the
purpose and as determined by the Plan Commission. Parallel streets or parkways
may be required in connection therewith.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.039  BLOCKS.
   (A)   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to:
      (1)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated;
      (2)   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions within the
corporate limits of the village;
      (3)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of
street traffic; and
      (4)   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   (B)   Block lengths shall not exceed 1,800 feet, nor be less than 600 feet.
   (C)   Pedestrian crosswalks, not less than ten feet wide, shall be required
where deemed necessary by the Plan Commission to provide pedestrian
circulation, or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers,
transportation, and other community facilities.
   (D)   Blocks or portions thereof, intended for commercial and industrial use
shall be designated as such, and the plan shall show adequate off-street areas
to provide for parking, loading docks, and such other facilities.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.040  LOTS.
   (A)   The lot size, width, depth, shape, and orientation shall be
appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type of development
and use contemplated.
   (B)   Lot dimension and areas shall conform to the requirements of
Chapter 154 of this code where applicable, but in no case shall a lot for
residential purposes in a new subdivision be less than 75 feet wide at the
building line, nor less than 8,500 square feet in area. However:
      (1)   Residential lots, where not served by public sanitary sewers and
water supply, shall not be less than 100 feet wide nor less than 20,000 square
feet in area. Where either public sanitary sewers or water supply is provided,
each lot may be 10,000 square feet in area with a width of not less than 80
feet;
      (2)   Where unusual soil conditions or other physical factors exist which
may impair the health and safety of the residents of the neighborhood in which
a subdivision may be located, upon recommendation of the State Department of
Public Health, the Plan Commission may increase lot area requirements as may be
necessary;
      (3)   Lots abutting a water course, drainage way, channel, or stream
shall have additional minimum width or depth as required to provide an adequate
building site and afford the minimum usable area required in these regulations
or
Chapter 154 of this code for front, rear, and side yards; and
      (4)   Depth and width of lots or properties reserved or laid out for
commercial, business, and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for
the off-street service and parking facilities.
   (C)   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
   (D)   All lots shall abut on a publicly dedicated public street.
   (E)   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots should be avoided except
where essential to provide separation of residential development from
expressways or primary streets, or to overcome specific disadvantages of
topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at least ten feet,
and across which there shall be no right of access, shall be provided along the
line of lots abutting such expressways and primary streets or other
disadvantageous use.
   (F)   Side lot lines shall be substantial at right angles or radial to
street lines.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.041  BUILDING SETBACK LINES.
   (A)   Except for the following, building setback lines in residential areas
of new subdivisions shall conform to the provisions of Chapter 154 of this
code, except that in no case shall the building setback line be less than 25
feet from the front property line.
   (B)   Corner lots shall maintain not less than the minimum front yard
building setback lines on both streets.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.042  PARKS, SCHOOLS, AND PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   Where a proposed park, playground, school, or other public use area
included within the duly adopted official comprehensive village plan for the
village and shown on the development plans made a part thereof, is located in
whole or in part in an area being subdivided, the subdivider shall dedicate
such lands to the proper public agency or agencies as a part of the final
subdivision plat, provided, however, that in no case shall the amount of
required public areas to be dedicated, in addition to public streets and
alleys, exceed 10% of the total gross acreage owned or controlled by one
developer. Where such area for park, school, or other public use exceeds 10% of
the total gross area owned or controlled by one developer, that part of such
lands in excess of 10% of the total gross area shall also be shown on all
subdivision plans and plats; and the acquisition of such additional area needed
for parks, playgrounds, schools, or other public uses, other than streets and
alleys, shall be secured by the proper governing bodies, or arrangements made
for the acquisition of the area from the subdivider at the cost of unimproved
land, within a period not to exceed three years from the date of approval of
the preliminary plan.
   (B)   Where less than 10% or none of the total gross area being subdivided
is proposed for parks, schools, or other public use areas under the official
comprehensive village plan, the subdivider shall dedicate such areas as
required and, in addition, pay to the proper governing body as determined by
the Plan Commission, a sum of money, so that either or both the dedication and
the payment equal 10% of the appraised value of the land before it is
subdivided. Sums so received by the proper governing body shall be placed in a
special fund and used by the governing body solely for purchase of land for
parks, schools, and other public uses in accordance with the official
comprehensive village plan, and other receipt of the recommendations of the
Plan Commission. The value of the subject land shall be established by
negotiation, and if negotiations fail, by appraisal made by three qualified
appraisers (one of whom shall be appointed by the Plan Commission, one of whom
shall be appointed by the subdivider, and one of whom shall be mutually agreed
upon by the two appraisers named above). The subdivider may contract with the
proper governing body on an installment method of payment based on the sale of
lots.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.055  VILLAGE ENGINEER CERTIFICATIONS.
   Before a subdivision shall be approved, the Village Engineer shall certify
that the improvements described in the subdivided plans and specifications,
together with agreements, meet the minimum requirements of all ordinances of
the village and that they comply with §§
153.056 and
153.057.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.056  MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Monuments shall be placed at all corners and angle points of the
outside boundary but no further than one-quarter mile apart. The monuments
shall be of concrete, not less than six inches in diameter and 36 inches deep
with a copper dowel three inches long cast in place. Iron pipe or steel bars
not less than one-half inch in diameter and 24 inches long shall be set at the
intersection of street centerlines and at all centers of lots not marked by
monuments.
   (B)   The monuments and bars shall be set level with the finished grade.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.057  UTILITY AND STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Utility and street improvements shall be provided in each new
subdivision in accordance with the standards and requirements schedule
described hereinafter.
   (B)   The standards and specifications for each general type of utility
shall be as follows.
      (1)   Sanitary sewers shall be constructed in accordance with the
applicable portions of the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois and the applicable portions of the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.
      (2)   Sanitary sewers and sanitary sewer services shall be installed to
serve all properties in the subdivision. The collector sanitary sewers shall
have a minimum internal diameter of eight inches. Sanitary sewer services shall
have a minimum internal diameter of four inches in residential subdivisions and
six inches in commercial/industrial subdivisions.
      (3)   Manholes for sanitary sewer shall have a maximum spacing of 300
feet and shall be constructed at all locations of alignment changes or at all
sewer intersection points. Irons and lids for manholes shall be of a heavy-
weight casting.
      (4)   All sanitary sewer trenches constructed within the street area
shall be backfilled with fine aggregate (sand) and consolidated to 95% of the
standard proctor density at optimum moisture. Sanitary sewer services
constructed outside of the street area and within the street right-of-way shall
be backfilled with approved backfill material and shall be consolidated to 95%
of the standard proctor density.
      (5)   Storm sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision
to carry off surface water from all inlets and catch basins and shall be
connected to an adequate outfall sewer system. Intercepting storm sewer water
structures shall be provided at points specified by the village. The stormwater
drainage system shall be separate and independent of the sanitary sewer system.
Storm sewers shall be constructed of reinforced concrete pipe or PVC pipe
materials conforming to IDOT standard specifications. Other materials for storm
sewer construction may be used in special cases upon approval of the Village
Board. All existing storm drain tiles shall be connected to storm sewers or
shall be restored to operating conditions.
      (6)   Storm sewer capacity shall be determined with the use of the
rational formula. The intensity (I Factor) used shall be a rainfall frequency
of not less than ten years. The runoff coefficient (C Factor) shall be
determined by the character of the land to be drained and shall conform to
accepted standard engineering practices. Street grades and lot and block
drainage shall be established so as to assure positive drainage, as approved by
the developer’s engineer.
      (7)   Manholes for storm sewers shall have a maximum spacing of 300 feet
and shall be constructed at all locations of alignment changes or at all sewer
intersection points.
      (8)   Frames and grates for manholes, catch basins, and inlets and valve
vaults shall be of a heavy weight casting.
   (C)   Water mains shall be of a minimum of six-inch internal diameter and
shall meet the AWWA specifications for the water main materials and mechanical
joint fittings.
      (1)   The minimum depth of water main from the top of the pipe material
to the finished grade shall be five feet. Hydrants shall be furnished with two,
two-and-one-half-inch hose nozzle connections, and one, six-inch steamer nozzle
connections. Threads on the nozzles, caps, and operating nuts shall be standard
with the existing village hydrants. Hydrants shall have a six-inch pipe
connection, a five-inch valve opening, and shall be equipped with auxiliary
valves.
      (2)   Hydrant style and manufacturer shall be approved by the Village
Water Department. Hydrants shall be installed at locations providing a maximum
spacing of 300 feet.
   (D)   All water services shall be constructed of the Type K copper pipe,
having a minimum internal diameter of three-quarters of an inch. Such services
shall be equipped with an approved corporation cock, curb stops, and other
necessary fittings in accordance with current village standards.
   (E)   All trenches caused by the construction of sewers, water mains, water
service pipes, and in excavations around catch basins, manholes, inlets, and
other appurtenances which occur within the limits of the existing proposed
pavements, sidewalks, and curbs and gutters, shall be backfilled with trench
backfill.
      (1)   Trench backfill shall consist of sand, pit-run gravel or crushed
stone and shall be compacted in place to 95% of maximum density at optimum
moisture as determined by the standard proctor test.
      (2)   Trench backfill may be compacted and consolidated by one, or a
combination of, the following methods.
         (a)   Method 1. The material shall be deposited in uniform layers not
exceeding twelve inches thick (loose measure), and each layer shall be
compacted by ramming or tamping with tools, either by hand or mechanical.
         (b)   Method 2. The material shall be deposited in uniform layers not
exceeding 12 inches thick (loose material), and each layer shall be either
inundated or deposited in water.
         (c)   Method 3. The trench shall be backfilled with loose material,
and settlement secured by introducing water through holes jetted into the
backfill to a point approximately two feet above the top of the pipe. The holes
shall be spaced no farther than six feet apart.
      (3)   The water shall be injected at a pressure just sufficient to sink
the holes at a moderate rate of speed. The pressure shall be such that the
water will not cut cavities in the backfill material nor overflow the surface.
If water does overflow the surface, it shall be drained into the jetted holes
by means of shallow trenches. Water shall be injected as long as it will be
absorbed by the backfill material and until samples taken from test holes in
the trench show satisfactory moisture content.
   (F)   (1)   The lighting plans shall be a part of the construction plans and
shall be indicated on the development plans.
      (2)   All work must meet the approval of the village. The village may
designate larger lamps, higher poles, ornamental poles and fixtures, or vary
the spacing as deemed necessary to meet any special conditions of the
subdivision. Installation shall be made in conformance with the local codes,
the National Electric Code, and in good and workmanlike manner.
   (G)   (1)   All work must meet the approval of the village and be certified
as being properly constructed.
      (2)   The developer is required to ensure compliance with all ordinances,
laws, statutes, and codes applicable to the construction of utility items.
      (3)   It shall be the developer’s responsibility to obtain and pay for
all required applications and permits for the installation of utilities.
   (H)   All plans and specifications for utility and street improvements shall
be prepared by and certified by a state registered professional engineer.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
PLATS, PLANS, AND DATA
§ 153.070  PRE-APPLICATION REVIEW.
   (A)   General subdivision information shall describe or outline the existing
conditions of the site and the proposed development as necessary to supplement
the drawings required below. This information may include data on existing
covenants, land characteristics, and available community facilities and
utilities; and information describing the subdivision proposal such as number
of residential lots, typical lot width and depth, price range, business areas,
school, playground, park areas, and other public areas, proposed protective
covenants, and proposed utilities and street improvements.
   (B)   Sketch plan on topographic survey shall show in simple sketch form the
proposed layout of streets, lots, and other features in relation to existing
conditions. The sketch plan may be a freehand pencil sketch made directly on a
print of the topographic survey. The sketch plan shall include the existing
topographic data listed in §
153.071(A).
   (C)   Sketch plans shall not be deemed sufficient for Plan Commission review
or approval. The Plan Commission shall give no approval of sketch plans.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.071  CONDITIONAL (PRELIMINARY) APPROVAL.
   (A)   Topographic data required as a basis for the preliminary plot, in
division (B) below, shall include existing conditions as follows except when
otherwise specified by the Plan Commission:
      (1)   Boundary lines: bearings and distances;
      (2)   Easements: location, width, and purpose;
      (3)   Streets on and adjacent to the tract: name and right-of-way width
and location; type, width, and elevation of surfacing; any legally established
centerline elevations; walks, curbs, gutters, culverts, and the like;
      (4)   Utilities on and adjacent to the tract: location, size, and invert
elevation of sanitary, storm, and combined sewers; location and size of water
mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone poles, and
street lights; if water mains and sewers are not on or adjacent to the tract,
indicate the direction and distance to, and size of nearest ones, showing
invert elevation of sewers;
      (5)   Ground elevations on the tract, based on the village datum plane:
for land that slopes less than 0.5%, show not less than one lot contours; for
land that slopes 0.5% to 2% show not less than two-foot contours, and for land
that slopes more than 2%, show not less than five-foot contours;
      (6)   Subsurface conditions on the tract, if required by the Plan
Commission: location results of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil, rock,
and ground water conditions; depth to ground water unless test pits are dry at
a depth of five feet; location and results of soil percolation tests if
individual sewage disposal systems are proposed;
      (7)   Other conditions on the tract: water courses, marshes, rock
outcrop, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees one foot or more in diameter,
houses, barns, shacks, and other significant features;
      (8)   Other conditions on adjacent land: approximate direction and
gradient of ground slope, including any embankments or retaining walls,
character and location of buildings, railroads, power lines, towers, and other
nearby nonresidential land uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent
unplatted land; for adjacent platted land refer to subdivision plat by name,
recording date, and number, and show approximate percent built-up, typical lot
size, and dwelling type;
      (9)   Photographs, if required by the Plan Commission: camera locations,
directions of views and key numbers;
      (10)   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract;
      (11)   Proposed public improvements: highways or other major improvements
planned by public authorities for future construction on or near the tract;
      (12)   Key plan showing location of the tract; and
      (13)   Title and certificates: present tract designation according to
official records in offices of the County Recorder; title under which proposed
subdivision is to be recorded, with names and addresses of owners, notation
stating acreage, scale, north arrow.
   (B)   Preliminary plat (general or preliminary subdivision plan) shall be at
a scale of 100 feet to one inch or 200 feet to one inch if the area of the
subdivision is more than two hundred acres. It shall show all existing
conditions required in division (A) above, and shall show all proposals
including the following:
      (1)   Streets: names, right-of-way and roadway widths, approximate grades
and gradients, similar data for alleys, if any;
      (2)   Other rights-of-way or easements; location, width, and purpose;
      (3)   Location of utilities, if not shown on other exhibits;
      (4)   Lot lines, lot dimensions, lot numbers, and block numbers;
      (5)   Sites, if any, to be reserved or dedicated for schools, parks,
playgrounds, or other public uses;
      (6)   Sites, if any, for multifamily dwellings, shopping centers,
churches, industry, or other nonpublic uses exclusive of single-family
dwellings;
      (7)   Proposed building setback lines;
      (8)   Site data, including number of residential lots, typical lot size,
and acres in parks, and the like;
      (9)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
      (10)   Location by section, township, and range;
      (11)   Name and address of the developer;
      (12)   Name and address of the planner or engineer; and
      (13)   Title, scale, north point, and date.
   (C)   When required by the Plan Commission, the preliminary plot shall be
accompanied by profiles showing existing ground surface and proposed street
grades, including extensions for a reasonable distance beyond the limits of the
proposed subdivision; typical cross-sections of the proposed grading, roadway,
and sidewalk; and preliminary plan of proposed sanitary and stormwater sewers
with grades and sizes indicated. All elevations shall be based on the village
datum plane.
   (D)   Draft of protective covenants, whereby the subdivider proposes to
regulate land use in the subdivision and otherwise protect the proposed
development.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.072  FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Final plat shall be drawn in ink on sheets not to exceed 24 inches
wide by 36 inches long and shall be at a scale of not less than 50 feet to one
inch. Where necessary, the plat may be on several sheets accompanied by an
index sheet showing the entire subdivision, as well as an electronic copy in an
acceptable format. For large subdivisions, the final plot may be submitted for
approval progressively in contiguous sections satisfactory to the Plan
Commission. The final plat shall show the following:
      (1)   Primary control points, approved by the Village Engineer, or
descriptions and ties to such control points, to which all dimensions, angles,
bearings, and similar data on the plat shall be referred;
      (2)   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements and
other rights-of-way, and property lines of residential lots and other sites;
with accurate dimensions, bearings, or deflection angles, and radii, arcs, and
central angles of all curves;
      (3)   Name and right-of-way width of each street or other right-of-way;
      (4)   Location, dimensions, and purpose of any easement;
      (5)   Number to identify each lot or site and block;
      (6)   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots;
      (7)   Proposed building setback line on all lots and other;
      (8)   Location and description of monuments;
      (9)   Names of record owners of adjoining unplatted land;
      (10)   Certification by surveyor or engineer certifying to accuracy of
survey and plat;
      (11)   Certification of title showing that applicant is land owner;
      (12)   Statement by owner dedicating streets, rights-of-way, and any
sites for public uses;
      (13)   Certification of approval by the Plan Commission;
      (14)   Name of subdivision;
      (15)   Location by section, township, and range; and
      (16)   Title, scale, north arrow, and date.
   (B)   Cross sections and profiles of streets showing grades approved by the
Village Engineer. The profiles shall be drawn to village standard scales and
elevations and shall be based on the village datum plane.
   (C)   A certificate by the Village Engineer certifying that the subdivider
has complied with one of the following alternatives:
      (1)   All improvements have been installed in accordance with the
requirements of these regulations and with the action of the Plan Commission
giving conditional approval of the preliminary plat; or
      (2)   A bond or certified check has been posted, which is available to
the village, and in sufficient amount to assure such completion of all required
improvements.
   (D)   Protective covenants in form for recording.
   (E)   Such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements, or deductions as
may be required by the Plan Commission in the enforcement of these regulations.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.073  CERTIFICATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   When the Village Board shall, upon motion and majority vote, approve
the final plat, the Village President and Village Clerk shall be authorized to
sign the original tracing. The certificates on the final plat shall be in the
following form with the signatures of the President of the County Board and the
County Clerk to be necessary only where the plat covers land in the
unincorporated area.
 
CERTIFICATES
 
A. Under the authority provided by the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.) and the
ordinances adopted by the Village Board of the Village of South Jacksonville, Illinois, this plat
was given approval by the Village of South Jacksonville, as follows:
 
Approved by the Plan Commission at a meeting held on ________________________________________.
 
Chairman: _________________________________                        (SEAL)
 
Secretary: _________________________________
 
 
Approved by the Village Board at a meeting held on ___________________________________________.
 
Village President: _________________________________                  (SEAL)
 
Village Clerk: ____________________________________
 
 
Approved by the Village Engineer on __________________________.
 
Village Engineer: ______________________________________
 
 
Approved by the County Board of Morgan County at a meeting held on
_________________________________________.
 
President, Morgan County Board: _____________________________________
 
Morgan County Clerk: ______________________________________________             (SEAL)
 
 
Date: __________________________
 
   (B)   Each final plat submitted to the village for approval shall carry a
certificate signed by a state registered land surveyor in substantially the
following form:
 
“I (Name), hereby certify that I am an Illinois Registered Land Surveyor in
compliance with the laws of the State of Illinois and that this plat correctly
represents a survey completed by me on (Date); that all monuments shown thereon
actually exist, and that their location, size, type, and material are
accurately shown.”
 
Signature: ______________________________________          (SEAL)
 
ILLINOIS LAND SURVEYOR NO. ________________
 
   (C)   Each final plat submitted to the village for approval shall carry a
deed of dedication in substantially the following form.
 
“We, the undersigned, (Name), owners of the real estate shown and described
herein, do hereby layoff, plat, and subdivide said real estate in accordance
with the within plat.
 
This subdivision shall be known and designated as (Name), an addition to the
Village of South Jacksonville (or Morgan County, whichever the case may be).
All streets, alleys, and public open spaces shown and not heretofore dedicated,
are hereby dedicated to the public.
 
Front and side yard building setback lines are hereby established as shown on
this plat, between which lines and the property lines of the streets, there
shall be erected or maintained no building or structure.
 
There are strips of ground, (Number) feet in width, as shown on this plat and
marked “Easement”, reserved for the use of public utilities for the
installation of water and sewer mains, poles, ducts, lines and wires, subject
at all times to the proper authorities and to the easement herein reserved. No
permanent or other structures are to be erected or maintained upon said strips
of land, but owners of lots in this subdivision shall take their titles subject
to the rights of the public utilities, and to the rights of the owners of other
lots in this subdivision.
 
(Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions,
would be inserted here upon the subdivided initiative or the recommendation of
the Plan Commission or Village Board; important provisions are those specifying
the use to be made of the property and, in the case of residential use, the
minimum habitable floor area.)
 
The foregoing covenants, (or restrictions) are to run with the land and shall
be binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until January 1,
__________, (twenty-five year period is suggested); at which time, said
covenants (or restrictions) shall be automatically extended for successive
periods of ten years unless by vote of a majority of the then owners of the
building sites covered by these covenants, or restrictions, it is agreed to
change such covenants, or restrictions, in whole or in part.
 
Invalidation of any one of the foregoing covenants, or restrictions, by
judgement or court order, shall in no way affect any of the other covenants or
restrictions, which shall remain in full force and effect.
 
The right to enforce these provisions by injunction, together with the right to
cause the removal, by due process of law, of any structure or part thereof
erected or maintained in violation hereof, is hereby dedicated to the public,
and reserved to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and
to their heirs and assigns.”
 
WITNESS our Hands and Seals this _____________ day of ___________ , __________.
 
State of Illinois
County of Morgan
 
Before me, the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the County and State,
personally appeared (Name), (Name), (Name), and each separately and severally
acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her voluntary
act and deed, for the purposes therein expressed.
 
WITNESS my Hand and Notarial Seal this _____________ day of ___________ ,
__________.
 
Notary Public Seal
 
   (D)   Such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements, or dedications as
may be required by the Village Plan Commissioner or the Village Board in these
enforcement regulations.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
§ 153.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
these regulations shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined in an amount not less than $25 nor more than $200.
   (B)   Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. 889, passed 8-4-2005)
CHAPTER 154:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Purpose and scope
   
154.002   Jurisdiction
   
154.003   Interpretation
   
154.004   Definitions
   
154.005   Other applicable regulations
   
154.006   Establishment of zoning districts
   
154.007   Official Zoning Map
   
154.008   Interpretation of Official Zoning Map
   
154.009   Zoning of new or annexed land
   
154.010   Rules of construction
   
154.011   Computation of time
   
154.012   Notice of public hearings
District Regulations
   
154.025   District and dimensional regulations generally
   
154.026   Exemption of agricultural uses
   
154.027   A-1 Agricultural District
   
154.028   RA One-Family Agricultural Dwelling District
   
154.029   R-1 One-Family Dwelling District
   
154.030   R-2 One-Family Dwelling District
   
154.031   R-3 Multifamily Dwelling District
   
154.032   RM Manufactured Home Dwelling District
   
154.033   B-1 Neighborhood Business District
   
154.034   B-2 General Business District
   
154.035   ORI Office, Research, and Light Industrial District
   
154.036   I-1 Industrial District
   
154.037   PD Planned Development District
   
154.038   PA Public Activity District
   
154.039   FP Floodplain Overlay District
Supplementary Regulations
   
154.050   Intent and purpose
   
154.051   Number of principal buildings on a zoning lot
   
154.052   Conformity with dimensional and off-street parking regulations
   
154.053   Lot area and width exceptions
   
154.054   Height exceptions
   
154.055   Setback exceptions
   
154.056   Accessory uses, buildings, and structures
   
154.057   Landscaping and screening requirements
   
154.058   Fence regulations
   
154.059   Home occupations
   
154.060   Temporary uses
   
154.061   Visibility at intersections
   
154.062   Performance standards
Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
   
154.075   Intent and purpose
   
154.076   Applicability
   
154.077   Design and location requirements
   
154.078   Supplementary off-street parking and loading regulations
   
154.079   Minimum required off-street parking and loading spaces
Sign Regulations
   
154.090   Intent and purpose
   
154.091   Applicability
   
154.092   Definitions
   
154.093   General sign regulations
   
154.094   All zoning districts
   
154.095   Dwelling district
   
154.096   All B, ORI, and I Districts
   
154.097   Off-premises advertising signs
   
154.098   Nonconforming signs
Site Plan Review Requirements
   
154.110   Developments subject to site plan review
   
154.111   Submittal requirements
   
154.112   Review procedures
   
154.113   Changes and amendments
Special Use Procedures and Standards
   
154.125   Intent and purpose
   
154.126   Procedures
   
154.127   Standards for special use permit approval
   
154.128   Terms and limitations
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.140   Enforcement Officer
   
154.141   Plan Commission
   
154.142   Permits and certificates of compliance
   
154.143   Fees
   
154.144   Enforcement
   
154.145   Proceedings to prevent violations
Appeals and Variations
   
154.160   Board of Appeals
   
154.161   Appeals
   
154.162   Variations
Nonconforming Situations
   
154.175   Applicability
   
154.176   Definitions
   
154.177   Nonconforming uses
   
154.178   Dimensional nonconformities
   
154.179   Damage or substandard conditions
Amendments
   
154.190   Types of amendments
   
154.191   Petition and submission requirements
   
154.192   Petition review procedure
   
154.193   Withdrawal of petition
 
   
154.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Buildings and construction, see
Chapter 151
   Floodplain areas, see
Chapter 152
   Land usage, general provisions, see
Chapter 150
   Subdivisions, see
Chapter 153
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001  PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   To the end that adequate light, pure air, and safety from fire and
other dangers may be secured, that the taxable value of land and buildings
throughout the municipality may be conserved, that congestion in the public
streets may be lessened or avoided, that the hazards to persons and damage to
property resulting from the accumulation or runoff of storm or floodwaters may
be lessened or avoided, and that the public health, safety, comfort, morals,
and welfare may be otherwise promoted, and to ensure and facilitate the
preservation of sites, areas, and structures of historical, architectural, and
aesthetic importance; this chapter, in accordance with state law, provides for
the following:
      (1)   To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter to
be erected;
      (2)   To establish, regulate and limit the building or setback lines on
or along any street, traffic way, drive, parkway or storm- or floodwater runoff
channel or basin;
      (3)   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas, and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces, within and surrounding such
buildings;
      (4)   To classify, regulate and restrict the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified industrial,
business, residential, and other uses;
      (5)   To divide the entire municipality into districts of such number,
shape, area, and of such different classes (according to use of land and
buildings, height and bulk of buildings, intensity of the use of lot area, area
of open spaces, or other classification) as may be deemed best suited to carry
out the purposes of this chapter;
      (6)   To fix standards to which buildings or structures therein shall
conform;
      (7)   To prohibit uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts;
      (8)   To prevent additions to and alteration or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed under this chapter; and
      (9)   To establish other regulations of land use and development that is
consistent with the statutory authority afforded to the village so as to
promote the public health, safety, comfort, morals, and welfare of the village
and its environs.
   (B)   This chapter is intended to be utilized in conjunction with
Chapter 153 of this code to ensure that the development of land within the
village occurs in a manner that protects, provides for, and promotes the public
health, safety, convenience, comfort, and general welfare of the residents of
the village.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided for in §§
154.175 through
154.179, all structures erected hereafter, all uses of land or structures
established hereafter, all structural alterations or relocation of structures
occurring hereafter, and all enlargements or additions to existing uses
occurring hereafter shall comply with the regulations of this chapter.
   (D)   In the event a nonconforming situation is caused by this chapter and a
building permit for a structure has been lawfully issued prior to the effective
date of this chapter, or amendment thereto, and provided that construction is
begun within six months of the date of the building permit and diligently
prosecuted to completion, such structure may be completed in accordance with
the approved plans on the basis of which the building permit has been issued,
and may, upon completion, be occupied under a certificate of occupancy for the
use originally designated, subject thereafter to the provisions of §
154.142(D).
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.002  JURISDICTION.
   Except as otherwise limited by law or by extraterritorial boundary
agreements with other municipalities, the provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all land within the corporate limits of the village and within
contiguous territory within one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits
and not included within any municipality.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.003  INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be considered the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, and welfare. Where
provisions of this chapter impose greater restrictions than those of any
statute, other ordinance or regulation, the provisions of this chapter shall be
controlling. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance or regulation
impose greater restrictions than this chapter, the provisions of such statute,
other ordinance or regulation shall be controlling.
   (B)   Whenever any provision of this chapter refers to or cites a section of
the relevant state law or rules and regulations and that section is later
amended or superseded, this chapter shall be deemed amended to refer to the
amended section or the section that most nearly corresponds to the superseded
section.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.004  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Additionally, for the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are
hereby defined; words used in the present tense shall include the future; words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular; the word “building” shall include the word “structure”; and the word
“lot” shall include the word “plot”; and the word “shall” is mandatory and not
directory.
   ABUTTING. Having a common border with, or being separated from such a common
border by a right-of-way or easement for a street, alley, pedestrian way,
utilities, or storm drainage.
   ACCESSORY USE.
      (1)   A building, structure, or use which meets all the following
criteria:
         (a)   It is subordinate to and serves a principal building or a
principal use;
         (b)   It is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal
building or principal use served;
         (c)   It contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of
occupants, business, industry, or institution in the principal building or
principal use served;
         (d)   It is located on the same lot as the principal building use or
use served; and is behind the rear building line of the principal building; and
         (e)   It would not otherwise be considered a principal use if it were
to be a freestanding structure on its own lot, such as an office building,
parking structure, power generation facility, or similar facilities.
      (2)   An ACCESSORY USE includes, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A children’s playhouse, garden house, and private greenhouse;
         (b)   A garage, portable utility shed, carport, or building for
domestic use;
         (c)   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot
with any retail service or business use, unless such storage is excluded by the
district regulations;
         (d)   Storage of goods used in or produced by manufacturing
activities, on the same lot or parcel of ground with such activities, unless
such storage is excluded by the district regulations;
         (e)   Off-street motor vehicle parking areas, and loading and
unloading facilities, except as otherwise noted;
         (f)   Signs, as permitted and regulated in each district incorporated
in this chapter; and
         (g)   Public utility communication, electric, gas, water, and sewer
lines, their supports and incidental equipment.
   ACREAGE. Any tract or parcel of land having an area of one acre or more
which has not been subdivided by metes and bounds or platted.
   AIRPORT or AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELD. Any landing area, runway, or other
facility (including heliports), designed, used, or intended to be used either
publicly or privately by any person or persons for the landing and taking off
of aircraft, including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down
areas, hangars, and other necessary buildings and open spaces.
   ALLEY. A public way, not more than 30 feet wide, which affords only a
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn
or damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body,
frame, or fender straightening or repair, and overall painting of vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and
motor service to automobiles, but not including any operation specified under
“Automobile Repair, Major”.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline, stored only in
underground tanks, kerosene, lubricating oils or grease, for operation of
automobiles, are offered for sale directly to the public, on the premises, and
including minor accessories and services for automobiles; but not including
major automobile repairs; and including washing of automobiles. When the
dispensing, sale, or offering for sale of motor fuels or oil is incidental to
the conduct of a public garage, the premises shall be classified as a public
garage. AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS shall not include sale or storage of
junkers or junkyards as defined herein.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. Any place where two or more motor vehicles not in
running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not being
restored to operation, or any land, building, or structure used for wrecking or
storing of such motor vehicle or parts thereof, and including any used farm
vehicles or farm machinery, or parts thereof, stored in the open and not being
restored to operating condition.
   AWNING. A roof-like cover, temporary in nature, which projects from the wall
of a building or overhangs the public way.
   BARS and TAVERNS. A business establishment where beer, wine, or other
alcoholic beverages are sold to customers and consumed on the premises and
where food or meals sold in conjunction with the business constitutes 50% or
less of the gross receipts of the establishment.
   BASEMENT. A story partly or wholly underground. Where more than one-half of
its height is above the established curb level or above the average level of
the adjoining ground where curb level has not been established, a BASEMENT
shall be counted as a story for purposes of height measurement.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or, in lieu of a street or
streets, by public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, bulkhead lines,
or shore lines of waterways or a corporate boundary line of the village.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals are
provided for compensation to four or more persons, but not more than 12 who are
not members of the keeper’s family.
   BUILDING. Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to
the land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space
or by walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows, or openings.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. The portion of a lot covered by a structure or
structures, including accessory structures.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from grade plane to the highest point
of the building.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The required minimum horizontal distance between the
closest point of an exterior wall of a building or any projection thereon and
the applicable property line or right-of-way line, in which no structure can be
placed or erected, unless otherwise provided for in this chapter.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. The structure in which the principal use of the lot is
located.
   BUFFER AREA. An area of land established to protect one type of land use
from another incompatible, or potentially incompatible, land use. The AREA is
landscaped or left in a natural state and in either event is kept in open space
use without buildings or structures.
   BUS LOT. Any lot or land area used for the storage or layover of passenger
buses or motor coaches.
   CARPORT. See GARAGE, PRIVATE.
   CLUB or LODGE. A building, along with accessory structures and facilities,
primarily intended to accommodate an association of persons and in which the
buildings, structures, and facilities are limited and restricted to members and
their guests.
   COMMERCIAL USE. An occupation, employment, or enterprise that is carried on
for profit by the owner, lessee, or licensee, but not including home
occupations and day care homes that comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCE. A specialized, not-for-profit, residential care home
serving as a dwelling for unrelated persons with disabilities and wherein such
group of unrelated persons does not fall within the definition of “Family”. A
COMMUNITY RESIDENCE does not include a residence which serves persons as an
alternative to incarceration for a criminal offense or a treatment center for
alcohol or substance abuse.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCE, LARGE. A dwelling unit where more than eight unrelated
disabled persons reside, plus additional persons serving as house parents or
guardians who need not be related to each other or to any of the disabled
persons residing in the dwelling.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCE, SMALL. A dwelling unit where eight or fewer unrelated
disabled persons reside, plus not more than two additional persons serving as
house parents or guardians who need not be related to each other or to any of
the disabled persons residing in the dwelling.
   CORNER LOT. See LOT, CORNER.
   CURB LEVEL. The level of the established curb in front of the building
measured at the center of such front. Where a building faces on more than one
street, the CURB LEVEL shall be the average of the levels of the curbs at the
center of the front of each street. Where no curb elevation has been
established, the mean level of the land immediately adjacent to the building
shall be considered the CURB LEVEL.
   DAY CARE HOME. A one-family dwelling unit in which family-like care is
provided for persons, away from their own homes, for compensation or otherwise,
for part of a 24-hour day, and where such day care operation is licensed by the
State Department of Child and Family Services.
   DEVELOPMENT. A structures and other modifications of the natural landscape,
above and below ground, on a particular site, including, but not limited to,
grading, removal of trees, paving, installation of utilities, or the erection
of structures.
   DEVELOPMENT, PLANNED. Land under unified control to be planned and developed
in a single development operation or a programmed series of development
operations or phases. A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT includes principal and accessory
structures and uses strongly related to the character and purposes of the
planned development. A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT is built according to general and
detailed plans for streets, utilities, lot and building location, landscaping,
and the like. A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT containing multiple lots and common areas
includes provisions for the operation and maintenance of common areas,
facilities, streets, utilities, and improvements that are for use by the
occupants of such PLANNED DEVELOPMENT, but which will not be provided,
operated, or maintained at public expense.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, used exclusively for residential
purposes, except for hotels, motels, house trailers, motor homes, modular
homes, and manufactured homes.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a residential structure or apartment-
hotel designed for occupancy by one family plus not more than four lodgers, for
living and sleeping purposes.
   DWELLING, GROUP. Two or more one-family, two-family, or multiple-family
dwellings or boarding or lodging houses, located on one zoning lot, but not
including tourist courts or motels.
   DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more
sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or
40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 900 or more square
feet in gross floor area, and which is built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a dwelling with a permanent foundation when connected to
the required utilities, and includes the necessary electrical, plumbing,
heating, ventilating, and other services systems. MANUFACTURED HOMES must
comply with the national manufactured home construction and safety standards
which are administered by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) and must bear the required red label on the exterior of the
home which indicates compliance with such federal standards.
   DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections,
which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body
feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet in
gross floor area, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities, and includes the necessary electrical, plumbing, heating,
ventilating, and other services systems. MOBILE HOMES must comply with the
national manufactured home construction and safety standards which are
administered by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
and must bear the required label on the exterior of the home which indicates
compliance with such federal standards. A recreational vehicle is not
considered to be a MOBILE HOME.
   DWELLING, MODULAR. A building assembly or system of building sub-assemblies,
including the necessary service systems, which is of closed or open
construction and which is made or assembled by a State Department of Public
Health approved manufacturer, on or off the building site for installation, or
assembly and installation on the building site, with a permanent foundation.
The approved unit will have a yellow seal on the electrical panel box of the
home or on the inside of the kitchen sink cabinet.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof, designed or
altered for occupancy by three or more families living independently of each
other.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-
family dwelling unit, which is arranged, designed, used, or intended to be used
as a single housekeeping unit. Complete kitchen facilities, permanently
installed, must always be included for each apartment.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for use and occupancy
by one family and entirely separated from any other dwelling by space.
   DWELLING, ROW (PARTY-WALL). A row of two to eight attached, one-family,
party-wall dwellings, not more than two and one-half stories in height, nor
more than two rooms in depth measured from the building line.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed or altered to provide dwelling
units for occupancy by two families.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption, or a
group of not more than five persons (excluding servants) who need not be
related by blood, marriage, or adoption, living together and maintaining a
common household, but not including sororities, fraternities, or other similar
organizations.
   FUEL BULK STATION. A place where crude petroleum, gasoline, naphtha,
benzine, benzol, kerosene, or other flammable liquid which has a flash point at
or below 200°F is stored for wholesale purposes, where the aggregate capacity
of all storage tanks is more than 6,000 gallons, regardless of whether the fuel
is stored above ground, underground, or in mobile tank cars or bucks.
   GARAGE, BUS. Any building used or intended to be used for the storage of
three or more passenger motor buses, or motor coaches used in public
transportation, including school buses.
   GARAGE, BUS or TRUCK. A building which is used or intended to be used for
the storage of motor trucks, truck trailers, tractors, and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half ton capacity.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of the principal
building designed, arranged, used, or intended to be used for the storage of
automobiles of the occupants of the premises.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building other than a private garage, used for the care,
incidental servicing, and sale of automobile supplies, or where motor vehicles
are parked or stored for remuneration, hire, or sale within the structure, but
not including trucks, tractors, truck trailers, and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half ton capacity.
   GUEST HOUSE. Living quarters within a detached accessory building located on
the same premises with the principal building, for the use by temporary guests
of the occupants of the premises. Such quarters shall have no kitchen
facilities nor be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A gainful occupation or profession customarily carried on
by an occupant of a dwelling unit as a use which is clearly incidental to the
use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes. The HOME OCCUPATION shall be
carried on wholly within the principal building or within a building accessory
thereto, and only by members of the family occupying the premises and one
person outside the family. No article shall be sold or offered for sale on the
premises and no mechanical or electrical equipment shall be installed or
maintained other than such as is customarily incidental to domestic use. There
shall be no exterior display, no exterior sign except as allowed by the sign
regulations for the district in which such HOME OCCUPATION is located, no
exterior storage of material, no other exterior indication of the HOME
OCCUPATION or variation from the residential character of the principal
building, and no offensive odors, noise, vibration, smoke, dust, heat, or glare
shall be produced. Offices, clinics, doctors’ offices, hospitals, barber shops,
tearooms, restaurants, beauty parlors, dress shops, millinery shops, tourist
homes, animal hospitals, and kennels, among others, shall not be deemed to be
HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   HOSPITAL or SANITARIUM. An institution open to the public in which patients
or injured persons are given medical or surgical care; or for the care of
contagious diseases or incurable patients.
   HOTEL APARTMENT. A building containing dwelling units or individual guest
rooms, the majority of which are for permanent guests. Maid and janitor service
may be provided but kitchen facilities are not necessarily included.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building in which more than five rooms or suites are
reserved to provide living and sleeping accommodations for temporary guests,
with no provisions in said rooms for cooking in any individual room or suite
(other than microwave oven).
   HOUSEHOLDER. The occupant of a dwelling unit who is either the owner or
lessee thereof.
   JUNKYARD. The use of more than 200 square feet of any lot where waste, scrap
metal, paper, rags, or similar materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored,
baled, packed, disassembled, or handled, including auto and building wrecking
yards, but excluding similar uses taking place entirely within a completely
enclosed building.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which more than four dogs,
cats, or other household domestic animals, over four months of age, are kept or
on which more than two such animals are boarded for compensation or kept for
sale.
   LINE OF BUILDING (FOR MEASURING YARDS). A line parallel to the nearest lot
line drawn through the point of a building or group of buildings nearest to
such lot line, exclusive of such features specified as being permitted to
extend into a yard.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An open, hard-surfaced area of sand
other than a street or a public way, the principal use of which is for the
standing, loading, and unloading of motor trucks, tractors, and trailers to
avoid undue interference with the public use of streets and alleys. Such space
shall be not less than ten feet in width, 45 feet in length, and 14 feet in
height, exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering space.
   LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE. A building with not more than five guest rooms
where lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement,
but not open to the public or to overnight guests.
   LOT. The word LOT when used alone shall mean a ZONING LOT unless the context
of this chapter clearly indicates otherwise.
   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a
public street; for a corner lot, the owner may elect either street line as the
front lot line, except that in business districts if a lot is a corner lot, the
front of the lot shall be the boundaries of the lot along both public streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
right angles to the lot depth at the established front building line.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The front property line of a zoning lot.
   LOT LINE, INTERIOR. A side lot line common with another lot.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line or lot lines most nearly parallel to and most
remote from the front lot line. Lot lines other than front or rear lot lines
are SIDE LOT LINES.
   LOT, CORNER. A parcel of land situated at the intersection of two or more
streets or adjoining a curved street at the end of a block.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or reversed corner lot.
   LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side of
another lot, whether across an alley or not.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot.
   LOT, ZONING. A parcel of land consisting of a single lot of record, part of
a lot of record, or a combination of two or more contiguous lots of record
which has been or which is proposed to be used, developed or built upon as a
unit under single ownership or control.
   MARQUEE or CANOPY. A roof-like structure of a permanent nature which
projects from the wall of a building and may overhang the public way.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL, PRIVATE. A building in which freight, brought to
said building by motor truck, is assembled and sorted for routing in intrastate
and interstate shipment by motor truck.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any building, structure, or land lawfully occupied by a
use or lawfully established at the time of the adoption of this chapter or
amendments thereto, which does not conform after the passage of this chapter or
amendments hereto with the use regulations of this chapter.
   NURSING HOME or REST HOME. A private home for the care of children or the
aged or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, but
not including facilities for the treatment of sickness or injuries or for
surgical care.
   NURSERY. An institution providing care for three or more children, from
under the age of four years to six years, for periods of more than four hours
but not exceeding 24 hours.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. An institution providing day care service for children from
four to six years of age.
   ORDINANCE. Reference to ordinance herein shall be construed as the zoning
ordinance and may be referred to herein as THIS CHAPTER or CHAPTER.
   PARCEL DELIVERY STATION. A building in which commodities, sold at retail
within the area and packaged by the retailer, are assembled and routed for
delivery to retail customers located within the area.
   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. An open, hard-surfaced area of land, other than a
street or public way, designed, arranged, and made available for the storage of
private passenger automobiles only, of occupants of the building or buildings
for which the parking area is developed and is accessory.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a street or
public way, intended to be used for the storage of passenger automobiles and
commercial vehicles under one and one-half ton capacity, and available to the
public, whether for compensation, free, or as an accommodation to clients or
customers.
   PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE. Space within a public or private parking area of
not less than 162 square feet (eight and one-half feet by 19 feet), exclusive
of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or office and work areas, for the
storage of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under one and one-
half ton capacity.
   PLANS COMMISSION. A body appointed by the Village Board to review issues
relating to development and construction within the village.
   PORCH. A roofed-over structure, projecting out from the wall or walls of a
main structure and commonly opens to the weather in part.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, or municipal department duly
authorized to furnish under public regulation to the public, electricity, gas,
steam, telephone, telegraph, transportation, or water.
   RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities
for track operation, but not including depots, loading platforms, stations,
train sheds, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops, or water
towers.
   SETBACK LINE, BUILDING. See BUILDING SETBACK LINE.
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display, or illustration which is
affixed to, or painted or represented directly or indirectly upon, a building,
structure, or piece of land, and which directs attention to an object, product,
place, activity, person, institution, organization, or business.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere than upon the
premises where such sign is located, or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted or to a commodity, service, or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where such sign is located, or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary and/or constant in intensity and color at all times when
such sign is in use. For the purpose of this chapter, any revolving,
illuminated sign shall be considered a FLASHING SIGN.
   SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA OF. The entire area within a single continuous
perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of such sign and in no case, passing
through or between any adjacent elements of same. However, such perimeter shall
not include any structural or framing elements lying outside the limits of such
sign and not forming an integral part of the display.
   SPECIAL USE. Any use of land or buildings, or both, described and permitted
herein, subject to the provisions of §§
154.125 through
154.128.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion of
a story exceeding 14 feet in height shall be considered as an additional story
for each 14 feet or fraction thereof.
   STORY, HALF. The portion of a building under a gable, hip, or mansard roof,
the wall plates of which, on at least two opposite exterior walls, are not more
than four and one-half feet above the finished floor of such story. In the case
of one-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, and multiple-family dwellings
less than three stories in height, a HALF STORY in a sloping roof shall not be
counted as a story for the purpose of this chapter. In the case of multiple-
family dwellings three or more stories in height, a HALF STORY shall be counted
as a story.
   STREET. A public way other than an alley.
   STREET LINE. A line separating an abutting lot, piece, or parcel from a
street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, other than incidental repairs, which
would prolong the life of the supporting members of a building such as, but not
limited to, the addition, removal, or alteration of bearing walls, columns,
beams, girders, or foundation.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having location on the ground.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any container designed for the purpose of holding water and
for the purpose of human bathing or swimming, whether above ground, on ground
level or below ground, that is eight feet in diameter and two feet in depth or
greater, or that can hold a total of 782 gallons.
   TERRACE, OPEN. A level and rather narrow plane or platform, which for the
purpose of this chapter is located adjacent to one or more faces of the
principal structure and which is constructed not more than four feet in height
above the average level of the adjoining ground.
   TOURIST COURTS, MOTOR LODGES, MOTELS. A group of attached or detached
buildings containing individual sleeping or living units, designed for or used
temporarily by automobile tourists or transients, with garage attached or
parking space conveniently located to each unit, including auto courts, motels,
motor lodges, or other similar type uses.
   TRUCK LAUNDRY. A building, or portion thereof, where vehicles over one and
one-half tons are washed for the public.
   TRUCK PARKING AREA OR YARD. Any land used or intended to be used for the
storage or parking of trucks, tractors, truck trailers, and including
commercial vehicles, while not loading or unloading, and which exceed one and
one-half tons in capacity.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged,
or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let, or leased.
   USED CAR LOT. A zoning lot on which used or new cars, trailers, or trucks
are displayed for sale or trade.
   VEHICLE LAUNDRY. A building, or portion thereof, where vehicles under one
and one-half tons are washed for the public.
   WAREHOUSE, SELF SERVICE STORAGE. A building or group of buildings with
controlled access that contains individual, compartmentalized, and controlled
access stalls or lockers for the storage of customer’s goods or wares.
   YARD. An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal building or
group of buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level
upward, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, and which extends along
a lot line and at right angles thereto to a depth or width specified in the
yard regulations for the district in which the zoning lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and
lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of a building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and
lying between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
   YARD, SIDE. The part of the yard lying between the nearest line of the
principal building and a side lot line, and extending from the required front
yard (or from the front lot line, if there is no required front yard), to the
required rear yard.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. See PLANS COMMISSION.
   ZONING LOT. A plot of ground, made up of one or more parcels which is or may
be occupied by a use, building, or buildings, including the open spaces
required by this chapter.
   ZONING MAPS. The map or maps incorporated into this chapter as a part
hereof, designating zoning districts.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.005  OTHER APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   Other ordinances and codes of the village governing buildings, land
development, property maintenance, and building occupancy include, but are not
necessarily limited to, the following:
   (A)   Building Code (if applicable);
   (B)   Fire Protection Code (if applicable);
   (C)   Development in Floodplain Areas (if applicable);
   (D)   Property Maintenance Code (if applicable); and
   (E)   Subdivisions (Ordinance No. 889).
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.006  ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The village is hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
Designation Name of District Additional Requirements
Designation Name of District                 Additional Requirements
A-1         Agricultural District            5 acre minimum lot size for
                                             dwellings
B-1         Neighborhood Business District
B-2         General Business District
FP          Floodplain Overlay District
I-1         General Industrial District
ORI         Office, Research, and Light
            Industrial District
PA          Public Activity District
PD          Planned Development Districts
PD-C        Planned Development-Commercial
PD-I        Planned Development-Industrial/
            Commercial
PD-MXD      Planned Development-Mixed Use
PD-R        Planned Development-Residential
R-1         One-Family Dwelling District     8,500 square feet minimum lot size
R-2         One-Family Dwelling District     6,000 square feet minimum lot size
R-3         Multi-Family Dwelling District
RA          One-Family Agricultural Dwelling 1 acre minimum lot size
            District
RM          Manufactured Home Dwelling
            District
 
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.007  OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the zoning and overlay districts are shown upon the
map made a part of this chapter, and are designated as the “Official Zoning
Map”. The Zoning Map and all the notations, references, and other information
shown thereon are a part of this chapter, and have the same force and effect as
if the Official Zoning Map and all the notations, references, and other
information shown thereon were all fully set forth or described herein, which
Zoning Map is attached hereto and made a part of this chapter by reference.
   (B)   The FP Overlay District boundaries shall be based on the flood
boundary and floodway maps of the village prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated August 4, 1987, and any official amendments
thereto. The FP Overlay District within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the village shall be based on the flood boundary and floodway maps of the
county prepared by FEMA and dated January 17, 1986, and any official amendments
thereto. Said maps shall constitute the Official Zoning Map with respect to FP
Overlay District and be filed as a record in the office of the Village Clerk.
Copies of said maps are also available at the Department of Inspections.
   (C)   If during any calendar year there are amendments to the Zoning Map,
said map shall be updated, published and made available for public inspection
or purchase not later than March 31 of the year following. The updated Zoning
Map shall reflect zoning classifications and district boundaries in effect on
December 31 of the previous year and may reflect any changes made between
December 31 and the date of publication.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.008  INTERPRETATION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Zoning of streets, alleys, public ways, and railroad rights-of-way.
All streets, alleys, public ways, and railroad rights-of way, if not otherwise
specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zoning district as
the property abutting such streets, alleys, public ways, or railroad rights-of
way. Where the centerline of a street, alley, public way, or railroad right-of-
way serves as a district boundary, the zoning of such areas, unless otherwise
specifically designated, shall be deemed to be the same as that of the abutting
property up to such centerline.
   (B)   District boundaries. Wherever any uncertainty exists as to the
boundary of any zoning district shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following
rules of interpretation shall apply.
      (1)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as following streets,
alleys, or similar rights-of-way, they shall be construed as following the
centerlines thereof.
      (2)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as approximately
following lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
      (3)   Where a lot of record is divided by a district boundary line, the
entire lot shall be construed to be within the district containing more than
one-half of the area of the lot.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.009  ZONING OF NEW OR ANNEXED LAND.
   (A)   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the village shall be
considered as being that zoning specified in the Comprehensive Zoning Map, or
in the R-1 One-Family Dwelling District, and as appropriate, in the FP
Floodplain Overlay District, until otherwise changed by ordinance.
   (B)   Nothing shall preclude the Village Board, upon a recommendation from
the Plans Commission, from adopting a simultaneous ordinance that has either
been initiated by the Village Board or by an applicant that rezones the annexed
territory to an appropriate zoning district other than the R-1 District (see §§
154.190 through
154.193).
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.010  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain rules of construction apply to the
text, as follows:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; the singular
includes the plural; and plural indicates singular, unless the context clearly
indicates the contrary;
   (B)   The terms “shall” and “must” are mandatory and not discretionary; the
words “may” or “should” are permissive;
   (C)   The words and phrases expressly defined herein shall be given the
defined meaning, unless indicated otherwise by the context;
   (D)   Words and phrases which are not defined herein shall be given their
usual meaning except where the context clearly indicates a different or
specified meaning; and
   (E)   The words “use” or “occupy” shall include the words “intended”,
“designed”, or “arranged” to be “used” or “occupied”.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.011  COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an
action is to be taken shall be computed by excluding the first and including
the last day.
      (2)   If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, that day
shall be excluded. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days,
intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays shall be excluded.
   (B)   The time period legally required by law for public notices shall
include all calendar days, unless specified otherwise by law.
   (C)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, whenever a person has the
right or is required to do some act within a prescribed period after the
service of a notice or other paper upon such person and the notice or paper is
served by mail, three days shall be added to the prescribed period.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.012  NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   A notice of every public hearing required to be held under this
chapter shall be given as follows:
      (1)   The notice of a public hearing shall be published, at least once,
in one or more newspapers published in the village, or, if no newspaper is
published therein, then in one or more newspapers with general circulation
within the village which is published within the county;
      (2)   Publication shall commence not more than 30 days nor less than 15
days before the hearing date; and
      (3)   The notice shall provide the time and place of the hearing and
include the following information:
         (a)   A street address of the subject property or other description of
the location of such property;
         (b)   The name of the applicant or appellant; and
         (c)   A description of the specific action being requested by the
applicant or appellant.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the office of Village Clerk to
prepare and submit for publication said notices, pending pre-approval from the
Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.025  DISTRICT AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   District regulations, generally. The following sections provide
specific regulations regarding the use and development of property within the
zoning districts established in §
154.006. These district regulations are supplemented by additional regulations
appearing elsewhere in this chapter.
   (B)   Dimensional regulations, generally.
      (1)   Dimensional standards. The dimensional standards contained in these
district regulations constitute the minimum dimensions (such as, building
setbacks), or limits (such as, building height or site coverage). This does not
preclude compliance with other regulations (such as, off-street parking
requirements) that may result in lot sizes greater than the minimum standard.
      (2)   Exceptions to dimensional standards. Certain exceptions to the
dimensional standards may apply. See the following sections in §§
154.050 through
154.062, for permitted exceptions:
         (a)   Section
154.053;
         (b)   Section
154.054; and
         (c)   Section
154.055.
      (3)   Lot area and width exceptions for public utility facilities. Lot
area and width for public utility facilities may be less than the minimum
requirements of the particular zoning district, provided that such lots shall
not be used for any other use.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.026  EXEMPTION OF AGRICULTURAL USES.
   (A)   The provisions of these district regulations shall not be exercised so
as to impose regulations or require permits with respect to land used or to be
used for agricultural purposes, or with respect to the erection, maintenance,
repair, alteration, remodeling, or extension of buildings or structures used or
to be used for agricultural purposes including farm dwellings for resident
owners and laborers actually engaged in the principal permitted agricultural
use, except that such building or structures used for agricultural purposes may
be required to conform to building or setback lines. In the event that land
within any zoning district, other than the A-1 Agricultural District, ceases to
be used solely for agricultural purposes, then only shall the provisions of
these regulations apply.
   (B)   The above exemption does not apply to the extraction of sand, gravel,
or limestone, even when those activities are related to an agricultural
purpose.
   (C)   The above exemption shall not be construed so as to permit the keeping
of equine, poultry, or livestock, including bovine, lamb, sheep, porcine, and
other livestock, or the raising of cash crops, commercial greenhouses, or
similar operations on lots whose principal use is or is intended to be for one
or more dwellings and where such lots are less than five acres in area; nor
does it apply to the establishment of new agricultural uses in any zoning
district other than the A-1 Agricultural District.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.027  A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of the A-1 District is to maintain an
environment where agricultural activities may be conducted and to limit or
restrict those uses which would be in conflict or negatively impacted by such
activities.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the A-1 District.
In addition to the uses permitted in this district, certain other uses may be
conditionally allowed per division (C) below. Other uses not listed, which are
determined by the Enforcement Officer to be identical or similar to one or more
of the permitted uses, may be permitted as well. When an unlisted use is
proposed and appears to meet the intent of this district, but its potential
impact is uncertain, then such use shall be considered a special use:
      (1)   Accessory uses (see §
154.056);
      (2)   Agricultural uses including crop and tree farming, gardening,
nursery operations, dairy farming, egg production, stock raising, domestic
animals and poultry breeding and raising (not including raising of fur bearing
animals or animal hospitals), and forestry operations together with the
operation of vehicles and machinery incidental to agricultural uses;
      (3)   Clinic, veterinary (large or small animals);
      (4)   Communication towers, less than 100 feet in height;
      (5)   Community residences, small, where the community residence is more
than 1,000 feet from any existing community residence;
      (6)   Dwellings, detached one-family;
      (7)   Dwellings, modular;
      (8)   Golf courses (not including miniature golf courses), including
ancillary uses such as club houses, restaurants, and practice driving ranges,
provided that lighting of such ancillary driving ranges shall be subject to
issuance of special use permit (see §§ 154.125 through 154.128);
      (9)   Home occupations (see §
154.059);
      (10)   Parks, forest preserves, and recreational areas that are public or
private not-for-profit, including fairgrounds;
      (11)   Places of worship;
      (12)   Public utility facilities as defined in the state act, entitled
“An Act Concerning Public Utilities”;
      (13)   Roadside stands, temporary or movable, for display and sale of
agricultural produce grown on the property, provided that any temporary or
movable structure shall be set back at least 24 feet from the edge of the
roadway and outside the roadway right-of-way; and
      (14)   Stables, private.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted in the A-1 District,
subject to the issuance of a special use permit in accordance with §§
154.125 through
154.128:
      (1)   Agricultural implement and machinery sales and service;
      (2)   Agricultural produce sale facilities (wholesale or retail)
including, but not necessarily limited to, fruits, vegetables, flowers, plants,
and similar produce;
      (3)   Airport, commercial;
      (4)   Airport, restricted landing area;
      (5)   Bed and breakfast inn;
      (6)   Blacksmith or welding shop;
      (7)   Cemeteries, including crematories and mausoleums in conjunction
therewith, provided that crematories shall not be located closer than 500 feet
to the lot line of any existing dwelling or the boundary of any dwelling
district;
      (8)   Club or lodge, private social, political or fraternal;
      (9)   Commercial feeding of poultry or livestock, including bovine, lamb,
sheep, porcine, and other livestock being raised for sale, provided that no
feeding facilities shall be located closer than 500 feet to the lot line of any
existing dwelling or the boundary of any dwelling district;
      (10)   Commercial grain elevators and storage facilities, provided that
no elevator and storage facilities shall be located closer than 500 feet to the
lot line of any existing dwelling or the boundary of any dwelling district;
      (11)   Communication towers, greater than 100 feet in height;
      (12)   Community residences, large;
      (13)   Community residences, small, where the community residence is
1,000 feet or less from any existing community residence;
      (14)   Dwellings, manufactured home;
      (15)   Earth materials, extraction and processing, provided that:
         (a)   No open pit or shaft shall be less than 300 feet from any public
road, nor less than 500 feet from the lot line of any existing dwelling or the
boundary of any dwelling district;
         (b)   All buildings or structures for the screening, crushing,
washing, mixing, or storage shall not be located not less than 1,000 feet from
the lot line of the boundary of any dwelling district;
         (c)   The borders of the entire property shall be fenced with a
security fence at least six feet in height;
         (d)   A plan of development for the reclamation of the land is
provided as part of the application for a special use permit; and
         (e)   The plan of development shall be accompanied by a written
agreement between the owner or owner’s agent and the village and a performance
bond in an amount equal to the cost of the reclamation of the land as set forth
in the development plan and approved by the village.
      (16)   Fertilizer sales, including bulk storage and mixing, provided that
no bulk storage or mixing facility shall be located closer than 500 feet to the
lot line of any existing dwelling or the boundary of any dwelling district;
      (17)   Flour, feed, and grain milling and storage facilities, provided
that no storage or processing facility shall be located closer than 500 feet to
the lot line of any existing dwelling or the boundary of any dwelling district;
      (18)   Fur-bearing animal farms;
      (19)   Greenhouses, nurseries, and landscaping supply operations,
wholesale or retail;
      (20)   Heliports;
      (21)   Kennels;
      (22)   Landscape waste composting operations, provided that no composting
operations shall be located closer than 2,000 feet to the lot line of the
boundary of any dwelling district;
      (23)   Livestock depots and sales yards, provided that no depot or sales
yard shall be located closer than 2,000 feet to the lot line of any existing
dwelling or the boundary of any dwelling district;
      (24)   Milk depots;
      (25)   Penal and correctional facilities;
      (26)   Private, for-profit, recreational areas and camps;
      (27)   Publically-owned or publically regulated buildings and facilities,
such as, water filtration plants, electric substations, pumping stations,
sewage treatment plants, maintenance facilities, public safety training areas,
and similar uses, but not including auditoriums, community centers, gymnasiums,
or other places of public assembly;
      (28)   Railroad rights-of-way and trackage, but not including
classification yards, terminal facilities, maintenance facilities, or similar
facilities;
      (29)   Recycling plants, provided that no resource recovery operations
shall be located closer than 500 feet to the lot line of any existing dwelling
or the boundary of any dwelling district;
      (30)   Sanitary landfills, subject also to state approval and provided
that no such landfill shall be located closer than 2,000 feet to the boundary
of any dwelling district;
      (31)   Shooting ranges, outdoor, provided that no portion of an outdoor
shooting range shall be located closer than 2,000 feet to any habitable or
occupiable building or nonagricultural district other than that of the dwelling
of an on-site owner or operator of the shooting range;
      (32)   Stables, professional and public;
      (33)   Truck parking areas, the principal purpose of which is ancillary
to the loading and shipping of farm produce, livestock, poultry, fertilizer,
animal feed, and similar agriculturally related products and provided that no
such parking area shall be located closer than 500 feet to the lot line of any
existing dwelling or the boundary of any dwelling district; and
      (34)   One chair beauty or barber shop.
   (D)   Density and dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.
         (a)   One-family detached and manufactured homes.
            1.   Lot area: five acres; and
            2.   Lot width: 200 feet.
         (b)   Other permitted uses.
            1.   Lot area: five acres; and
            2.   Lot width: 200 feet.
         (c)   Special uses.
            1.   Lot area: five acres; and
            2.   Lot width: 200 feet.
      (2)   Minimum building setbacks.
         (a)   One-family detached and manufactured home.
            1.   Right-of-way setback: 50 feet; and
            2.   Property line setback: 25 feet.
         (b)   Other permitted and special uses. The minimum setback
requirements for all other principal buildings and structures shall be the same
as listed in division (D)(2)(a) above, except as otherwise specified in the
listing of permitted and special uses (see divisions (B) and (C) above).
      (3)   Building height limitations. The building height limitations are 35
feet or three stories.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.028  RA ONE-FAMILY AGRICULTURAL DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of the RA District is to protect and
preserve areas of low density, estate type, and residential development and to
allow for the construction of new one-family detached dwellings within large
lot (one acre or more) subdivisions.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the RA District.
In addition to the uses permitted in this district, certain other uses may be
conditionally allowed per division (C) below. Other uses not listed, which are
determined by the Enforcement Officer to be identical or similar to one or more
of the permitted uses, may be permitted as well. When an unlisted use is
proposed and appears to meet the intent of this district, but its potential
impact is uncertain, then such use shall be considered a special use:
      (1)   Accessory uses (see §
154.056);
      (2)   Community residences, small, where the community residence is more
than 1,000 feet from any existing community residence;
      (3)   Dwellings, detached one-family;
      (4)   Home occupations (see §
154.059);
      (5)   Places of worship;
      (6)   Schools, public; and
      (7)   Convents, monasteries and rectories, in connection with a place of
worship and located on the same or adjacent lot.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted in the RA District,
subject to the issuance of a special use permit in accordance with §§
154.125 through
154.128:
      (1)   Community residences, large;
      (2)   Community residences, small, where the community residence is 1,000
feet or less from any existing community residence;
      (3)   Day care centers as an accessory use to places of worship, schools,
or other not-for-profit facilities;
      (4)   Day care centers established as a principal use of buildings and
land, prior to the effective date of this chapter, where said buildings and
land were developed and clearly intended for non-dwelling use;
      (5)   Dwellings, manufactured and modular homes;
      (6)   Golf courses, except miniature courses and practice driving ranges
operated as a commercial use;
      (7)   Greenhouses, nurseries, and landscaping supply operations,
wholesale or retail, provided that such facilities are located on a lot of not
less than five acres and that any structures or loading areas are located no
closer than 100 feet to the lot line of any existing dwelling or the boundary
line of any other dwelling district;
      (8)   Parks and playgrounds, public or not-for-profit;
      (9)   Public utility facilities, excluding communication towers;
      (10)   Recreation facilities, common;
      (11)   Schools, private; except trade, technical, or business schools,
college, and university facilities; and
      (12)   One chair beauty or barber shop.
   (D)   Density and dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.
         (a)   Lot area: one acre; and
         (b)   Lot width: 125 feet.
      (2)   Minimum building setbacks.
         (a)   All uses.
            1.   Front yard setback: 40 feet;
            2.   Side yard setback: 15 feet; and
            3.   Rear yard setback: 75 feet.
         (b)   Other instances. All other instances where a side yard of a non-
dwelling use abuts a property that is within a dwelling district, then the
minimum side yard setback shall be 25 feet.
      (3)   Building height limitations. The building height limitations are 35
feet or three stories.
      (4)   Maximum building coverage. Minimum building coverage is 20%.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.029  R-1 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of the R-1 District is to protect and
preserve areas of low density residential development and to allow for the
construction of new one-family detached dwellings within low density
subdivisions having lot sizes of not less than 8,500 square feet.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the R-1 District.
In addition to the uses permitted in this district, certain other uses may be
conditionally allowed per division (C) below. Other uses not listed, which are
determined by the Enforcement Officer to be identical or similar to one or more
of the permitted uses, may be permitted as well. When an unlisted use is
proposed and appears to meet the intent of this district, but its potential
impact is uncertain, then such use shall be considered a special use:
      (1)   Accessory uses (see §
154.056);
      (2)   Community residences, small, where the community residence is more
than 1,000 feet from any existing community residence;
      (3)   Dwellings, detached one-family;
      (4)   Dwellings, modular;
      (5)   Home occupations (see §
154.059);
      (6)   Places of worship; and
      (7)   Schools, public.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted in the R-1 District,
subject to the issuance of a special use permit in accordance with §§
154.125 through
154.128:
      (1)   Community residences, large;
      (2)   Community residences, small, where the community residence is 1,000
feet or less from any existing community residence;
      (3)   Convents, monasteries, and rectories, in connection with a place of
worship and located on the same or adjacent lot;
      (4)   Day care homes, nurseries, or nursery schools as an accessory use;
      (5)   Day care centers established as a principal use of buildings and
land, prior to the effective date of this chapter, where said buildings and
land were developed and clearly intended for non-dwelling use;
      (6)   Dwellings, two-family;
      (7)   Golf courses, except miniature courses and practice driving ranges
operated as a commercial use;
      (8)   Parks and playgrounds, public or not-for-profit;
      (9)   Public utility facilities, excluding communication towers;
      (10)   Recreation facilities, common;
      (11)   Schools, private; except trade, technical or business schools,
college, and university facilities; and
      (12)   One chair beauty or barber shop.
   (D)   Density and dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.
         (a)   Lot area: 8,500 square feet; and
         (b)   Lot width: 70 feet.
      (2)   Minimum building setbacks.
         (a)   One-family detached.
            1.   Front yard setback: 30 feet;
            2.   Side yard setback: eight feet; and
            3.   Rear yard setback: 30 feet.
         (b)   Side yard of a non-dwelling use. Except where a side yard of a
non-dwelling use abuts a property that is within a dwelling district, then the
minimum side yard setback shall be 25 feet.
      (3)   Building height limitations. The building height limitations are 25
feet or two and one-half stories.
      (4)   Maximum building coverage. The maximum building coverage is 35%.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.030  R-2 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of the R-2 District is to protect and
preserve areas of low density residential development and to allow for the
construction of new one-family detached dwellings within low density
subdivisions having lot sizes of not less than 6,000 square feet.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the R-2 District.
In addition to the uses permitted in this district, certain other uses may be
conditionally allowed per division (C) below. Other uses not listed, which are
determined by the Enforcement Officer to be identical or similar to one or more
of the permitted uses, may be permitted as well. When an unlisted use is
proposed and appears to meet the intent of this district, but its potential
impact is uncertain, then such use shall be considered a special use:
      (1)   Accessory uses (see §
154.056);
      (2)   Community residences, small, where the community residence is more
than 1,000 feet from any existing community residence;
      (3)   Dwellings, detached one-family;
      (4)   Home occupations (see §
154.059);
      (5)   Places of worship; and
      (6)   Schools, public.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted in the R-2 District,
subject to the issuance of a special use permit in accordance with §§
154.125 through
154.128:
      (1)   Community residences, large;
      (2)   Community residences, small, where the community residence is 1,000
feet or less from any existing community residence;
      (3)   Convents, monasteries, and rectories, in connection with a place of
worship and located on the same or adjacent lot;
      (4)   Day care homes, nurseries, or nursery schools as an accessory use;
      (5)   Day care centers established as a principal use of buildings and
land, prior to the effective date of this chapter, where said buildings and
land were developed and clearly intended for non-dwelling use;
      (6)   Golf courses, except miniature courses and practice driving ranges
operated as a commercial use;
      (7)   Parks and playgrounds, public or not-for-profit;
      (8)   Public utility facilities, excluding communication towers;
      (9)   Recreation facilities, common;
      (10)   Schools, private; except trade, technical, or business schools,
college, and university facilities; and
      (11)   One chair beauty or barber shop.
   (D)   Density and dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.
         (a)   One-family detached.
            1.   Lot area: 6,000 square feet; and
            2.   Lot width: 60 feet.
         (b)   Other permitted and special uses.
            1.   Lot area: 8,500 square feet; and
            2.   Lot width: 75 feet.
      (2)   Minimum building setbacks.
         (a)   One-family detached.
            1.   Front yard setback: 30 feet;
            2.   Side yard setback: seven feet; and
            3.   Rear yard setback: 30 feet.
         (b)   Other permitted and special uses. The minimum setback
requirements for all other principal buildings and structures shall be the same
as listed in division (D)(2)(a) above, except where a side yard of a non-
dwelling use abuts a property that is within a dwelling district, then the
minimum side yard setback shall be 25 feet.
      (3)   Building height limitations. The building heigh limitations are 25
feet or two and one-half stories.
      (4)   Maximum building coverage. The maximum building coverage is 35%.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.031  R-3 MULTIFAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of the R-3 District is to protect and
preserve existing areas of predominantly two-family dwellings and to allow for
the construction of new one-family detached dwellings, one-family attached
dwellings, two-family dwellings, and multifamily dwellings.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the R-3 District.
In addition to the uses permitted in this district, certain other uses may be
conditionally allowed per division (C) below. Other uses not listed, which are
determined by the Enforcement Officer to be identical or similar to one or more
of the permitted uses, may be permitted as well. When an unlisted use is
proposed and appears to meet the intent of this district, but its potential
impact is uncertain, then such use shall be considered a special use:
      (1)   Accessory uses (see §
154.056);
      (2)   Community residences, small, where the community residence is more
than 1,000 feet from any existing community residence;
      (3)   Dwellings, attached one-family;
      (4)   Dwellings, detached one-family;
      (5)   Dwellings, multifamily;
      (6)   Dwellings, two-family;
      (7)   Home occupations (see §
154.059);
      (8)   Places of worship; and
      (9)   Schools, public.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted in the R-3 District,
subject to the issuance of a special use permit in accordance with §§
154.125 through
154.128:
      (1)   Community residences, large;
      (2)   Community residences, small, where the community residence is 1,000
feet or less from any existing community residence;
      (3)   Convents, monasteries, and rectories, in connection with a place of
worship and located on the same or adjacent lot;
      (4)   Day care homes, nurseries, or nursery schools as an accessory use;
      (5)   Day care centers established as a principal use of buildings and
land, prior to the effective date of this chapter, where said buildings and
land were developed and clearly intended for non-dwelling use;
      (6)   Dwellings, row houses;
      (7)   Golf courses, except miniature courses and practice driving ranges
operated as a commercial use;
      (8)   Parks and playgrounds, public or not-for-profit;
      (9)   Public utility facilities, excluding communication towers;
      (10)   Recreation facilities, common;
      (11)   Schools, private; except trade, technical, or business schools,
college, and university facilities; and
      (12)   One chair beauty or barber shop.
   (D)   Density and dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.
         (a)   One-family detached.
            1.   Lot area: 8,500 square feet; and
            2.   Lot width: 75 feet.
         (b)   One-family attached dwellings: lot area.
            1.   Per development 20,000 square feet;
            2.   Per dwelling unit 4,250 square feet; and
            3.   Lot width: 75 feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot dimension: multifamily dwellings.
         (a)   Per development: 100 feet (lot frontage);
         (b)   Minimum lot area per development: 20,000 square feet;
         (c)   Minimum lot dimension per unit:
            1.   Lot area: 3,000 square feet per unit; and
            2.   Lot width: 25 feet per unit.
         (d)   Exception: an existing one-family dwelling located on a lot of
record that has less area than required in this section may be converted to a
two-family dwelling without increasing the lot size, provided that the building
is not enlarged beyond its present outside dimensions and that all other
regulations of this chapter are complied with. Additions may be made to an
existing building only when lot size and yard requirements of this size and
yard requirements of this section are complied with;
         (e)   Other permitted two-family dwellings and special uses:
            1.   Lot area: 10,000 square feet; and
            2.   Lot width: 75 feet.
      (3)   Building setback requirements.
         (a)   All uses:
            1.   Front yard setback: 30 feet;
            2.   Side yard setback: seven feet; and
            3.   Rear yard setback: 30 feet.
         (b)   Except where a side yard of a non-dwelling use abuts a property
that is within a dwelling district, then the minimum side yard setback shall be
25 feet.
      (4)   Building height limitations. Building height limitations are 25
feet or two and one-half stories.
      (5)   Maximum building coverage. Maximum building coverage is 35%.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.032  RM MANUFACTURED HOME DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of the RM District is to protect and
conserve areas of manufactured home dwellings that are developed in accordance
with the standards contained herein and to provide for the construction of new
manufactured dwelling parks that meet the development standards contained
herein.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the RM District.
In addition to the uses permitted in this district, certain other uses may be
conditionally allowed per division (C) below. Other uses not listed, which are
determined by the Enforcement Officer to be identical or similar to one or more
of the permitted uses, may be permitted as well. When an unlisted use is
proposed and appears to meet the intent of this district, but its potential
impact is uncertain, then such use shall be considered a special use:
      (1)   Accessory uses (see §§
154.050 through
154.062);
      (2)   Community residences, small, where the community residence is more
than 1,000 feet from any existing community residence;
      (3)   Dwellings, detached one-family;
      (4)   Home occupations (see §
154.059);
      (5)   Places of worship;
      (6)   Schools, public; and
      (7)   Manufactured homes.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted in the RM District,
subject to the issuance of a special use permit in accordance with §§
154.125 through
154.128:
      (1)   Community residences, large;
      (2)   Community residences, small, where the community residence is 1,000
feet or less from any existing community residence;
      (3)   Convents, monasteries, and rectories, in connection with a place of
worship and located on the same or adjacent lot;
      (4)   Day care homes, nurseries, or nursery schools as an accessory use;
      (5)   Laundry facilities, common;
      (6)   Parks and playgrounds, public or not-for-profit;
      (7)   Public utility facilities, excluding communication towers;
      (8)   Recreation facilities, common; and
      (9)   Schools, private; except trade, technical, or business schools,
college, and university facilities.
   (D)   Density and dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.
         (a)   One-family detached.
            1.   Lot area: 8,500 square feet; and
            2.   Lot width: 75 feet.
         (b)   Manufactured home dwellings.
            1.   Per development: 8,500 square feet; and
            2.   Per dwelling unit: 75 feet.
      (2)   Minimum building setbacks.
         (a)   All uses.
            1.   Front yard setback: 30 feet;
            2.   Side yard setback: eight feet; and
            3.   Rear yard setback: 30 feet.
         (b)   Exception. Except where a side yard of a non-dwelling use abuts
a property that is within a dwelling district, then the minimum side yard
setback shall be 25 feet.
      (3)   Building height limitations.
         (a)   Manufactured home dwellings: 25 feet or two and one-half
stories; and
         (b)   Other uses: 25 feet or two and one-half stories.
      (4)   Maximum building coverage.
         (a)   Manufactured home dwellings: 35%; and
         (b)   Other uses: 35%.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.033  B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The B-1 District is intended to accommodate
limited retail and service businesses at locations within or adjacent to
residential neighborhoods. Such retail and service establishments are intended
to serve a relatively small and local market area, or are of such character and
intensity which are compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the B-1 District,
subject to a limit of 3,500 square feet of gross floor area for the principal
building containing one or more of the uses. In addition to the land uses
permitted in this district, certain other uses may be conditionally allowed per
division (C) below. Any permitted land use or development, that contains a
principal building which exceeds 3,500 square feet of gross floor area, shall
be considered a special use (see division (C) below). Other uses not listed,
which are determined by the Enforcement Officer to be identical or similar to
one or more of the following uses, may be permitted as well. When an unlisted
use is proposed, which appears to meet the intent of this district but its
potential impact is uncertain, then such use shall be considered a special use:
      (1)   Accessory uses (see §
154.056);
      (2)   Artist, sculptor, or craft studios;
      (3)   Bakeries, limited to the processing of bakery goods for sale only
on the premises;
      (4)   Day care centers, caring for 20 or fewer individuals;
      (5)   Dry-cleaning drop-off/pick-up (no cleaning facilities on site);
      (6)   Specialty food shops;
      (7)   Laundromats, self service;
      (8)   Offices;
      (9)   Offices, medical and dental;
      (10)   Pharmacies;
      (11)   Places of worship;
      (12)   Recreation facilities, commercial; or health clubs;
      (13)   Restaurants;
      (14)   Retail service establishments, including: barber shops and beauty
parlors; copying and duplicating services; dressmaking or tailor shops; private
postal services; shoe repair shops; suntan parlors; travel agencies; typing and
stenography services; and other similar service establishments;
      (15)   Retail specialty shops, including: antique shops; art and school
supplies; bicycle shops; book stores; camera shops and film developing; candy
stores; card and stationery shops; florist shops; gift shops; hobby shops;
jewelry stores; newspaper and magazine shops; record, tape, and compact disc
shops; tobacco and pipe shops; and other similar specialty retail
establishments;
      (16)   Schools, public;
      (17)   Schools and studios, private; for less than 20 students in
attendance at any one time; and
      (18)   Video rental and sales stores.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted in the B-1 District,
subject to the issuance of a special use permit in accordance with §§
154.125 through
154.128:
      (1)   All permitted uses, listed under division (B) above, which exceed
3,500 square feet of gross floor area but not exceeding 12,000 square feet of
gross floor area; or require a drive-through;
      (2)   Amusement centers, indoor;
      (3)   Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics, but not including animal
boarding facilities or outdoor animal exercise areas;
      (4)   Bars and taverns;
      (5)   Bowling alleys;
      (6)   Day care centers, serving more than 20 individuals;
      (7)   Dry-cleaning establishments, with cleaning facilities on site;
      (8)   Outdoor dining, on premises only;
      (9)   Parks and playgrounds, public or not-for-profit;
      (10)   Public utilities, excluding communication towers;
      (11)   Restaurants, fast food;
      (12)   Schools and studios, private; with more than 20 students in
attendance at any one time; and
      (13)   A single dwelling unit when located above a permitted use, or in
the same structure on grade level, to the rear of the permitted use.
      (14)   Any liquor license in B-1 zoning requires a special use license.
   (D)   Density and dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.
         (a)   Lot area: 10,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Lot width: 75 feet.
      (2)   Minimum building setbacks.
         (a)   Front yard setback: 20 feet;
         (b)   Side yard setback: none (except where such side property line
abuts a dwelling district, where a setback of 25 feet shall be provided);
         (c)   Rear yard setback: 20 feet; and
         (d)   Modification of rear or side yard setback: the minimum property
line setback requirement may be modified via the special use permit procedure,
under §§
154.125 through
154.128. Such modifications may be more or less stringent, depending on the
potential impact of the proposed development in the B-1 District which is
adjacent to a dwelling district. In the case of a request for a less stringent
setback, the special use permit applicant must demonstrate screening between
the proposed development and the adjacent residential district above and beyond
the minimum screening requirements contained in §
154.057.
      (3)   Building height limitations. Building height limitations are 25
feet or two stories.
      (4)   Maximum site coverage.
         (a)   For developments encompassing 20,000 square feet or more of land
area, site coverage shall not exceed 70%. Site coverage may be increased by a
factor of 1% to 10% under the special use permit procedures contained in §§
154.125 through
154.128. Such additional site coverage may be allowed in consideration of
special or outstanding landscape design and site planning features. Such
features to be considered in allowing any additional site coverage includes the
following:
            1.   A professionally designed landscape plan which incorporates
proper irrigation, intense planting, and retention of existing trees and other
plants worthy of saving;
            2.   Use of low masonry walls of architectural quality (brick or
textured and pigmented concrete), terraces, berms, and earth sculpting to
screen parking areas; and
            3.   Special pedestrian facilities and features such as plazas,
covered walkways, fountains, and seating areas.
         (b)   The balance of the site, not covered by buildings and
structures, parking lots, vehicle circulation, and other accessory facilities,
shall be devoted to landscaping, pedestrian circulation, plazas, and buffering.
   (E)   Other development standards.
      (1)   Except for permitted outdoor dining, off-street parking and
loading; all business, merchandise display, servicing, processing, and storage,
which takes place outdoors, shall be limited to 100 square feet in area.
Otherwise, all business, merchandise display, servicing, processing, and
storage shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings. This
limitation does not apply to outdoor storage of items that are screened from
public view and located behind the building setback line from a street right-
of-way or a property line.
      (2)   Processes and equipment employed and goods processed or sold shall
be limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke,
noise, vibration, refuse, water-carried waste, pollutants or other matter which
in any manner creates a nuisance beyond the property line of a particular use
(also see § 154.062 for performance standards).
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001; Ord. 1084, passed 12-5-2019)
§ 154.034  B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The B-2 District is intended to accommodate more
intensive retail and service businesses that would otherwise not be permitted
in the B-1 District. The B-2 District is intended to accommodate the retail and
service needs of a larger consumer population than is typically served by the
B-1 Neighborhood Business District.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the B-2 District,
subject to a limit of 25,000 square feet of gross floor area for the principal
building containing one or more of the uses. In addition to the land uses
permitted in this district, certain other uses may be conditionally allowed per
division (C) below. Other uses not listed, which are determined by the
Enforcement Officer to be identical or similar to one or more of the following
uses, may be permitted as well. When an unlisted use is proposed, which appears
to meet the intent of this district but its potential impact is uncertain, then
such use shall be considered a special use:
      (1)   Accessory uses (see §
154.056);
      (2)   Any use permitted in the B-1 Neighborhood Business District (see §
154.033(B)), except those uses that are modified under this list of permitted
uses (size limitations on permitted B-1 uses do not apply here);
      (3)   Appliance, computer, and/or electronics stores, sales, and service;
      (4)   Automobile and truck (less than one and one-half ton) sales and
leasing;
      (5)   Automobile parts and accessory stores;
      (6)   Banks and other financial institutions, with up to two drive-
through lanes;
      (7)   Bars and taverns;
      (8)   Bicycle stores, sales, rental, and service;
      (9)   Boat and marine sales and service;
      (10)   Catering establishments, including pizza delivery;
      (11)   Clothing and apparel stores;
      (12)   Department, discount, and variety stores;
      (13)   Food stores and grocery stores; convenience stores; and meat
markets;
      (14)   Furniture stores with repair and re-upholstery only as an
accessory use;
      (15)   Gasoline stations;
      (16)   Hardware and home improvement stores, including lumberyards;
      (17)   Hotels;
      (18)   Interior decorating stores, including carpet, paint, and wallpaper
stores;
      (19)   Libraries;
      (20)   Medical and dental offices;
      (21)   Musical instrument stores, sales, and repair;
      (22)   Museums;
      (23)   Offices;
      (24)   Office supply stores;
      (25)   Optical sales, examinations;
      (26)   Package liquor sales as a principal use;
      (27)   Pet stores and animal grooming shops;
      (28)   Pharmacies;
      (29)   Public buildings used by the village, school district, township,
park district, county, state, or federal governments, except for vehicle
maintenance, raw material storage, and other similar type facilities;
      (30)   Radio, television, and recording studios;
      (31)   Restaurants, with up to two drive-through lanes;
      (32)   Restaurants, fast-food, with up to two drive-through lanes;
      (33)   Retail stores providing for the sale of consumer goods normally
found in a shopping center or a freestanding building, including the sale of
clothing and apparel, sporting goods, computer hardware and software, home or
car audio/video equipment, dry goods, toys, and similar merchandise;
      (34)   Schools for business, professional, or technical training, but not
including outdoor training areas;
      (35)   Theaters, performing arts or movie; and
      (36)   Vehicle repair and service facilities.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted in the B-2 District,
subject to the issuance of a special use permit in accordance with §§
154.125 through
154.128:
      (1)   All permitted uses which include drive-through facilities in excess
of two lanes;
      (2)   All special uses in the B-1 District (see §
154.033(C)), except as may be otherwise permitted in this B-2 District (see
division (B) above);
      (3)   All permitted uses, listed under division (B) above, which exceed
25,000 square feet of gross floor area;
      (4)   Recycling collection point;
      (5)   Vehicle service facilities, for more than one and one-half ton
units;
      (6)   Massage-tattoo establishments, subject to all applicable federal,
state, or local requirements;
      (7)   Warehouse and wholesale establishments, distribution centers;
      (8)   Warehouse, self-service storage; and
      (9)   Other uses, not enumerated, in this division (C), but consistent
with B-2 occupancies.
   (D)   Density and dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.
         (a)   Lot area: 10,000 square feet;
         (b)   Lot width: 75 feet; and
         (c)   Minimum lot size exceptions: the minimum lot size requirement
may be reduced, subject to the issuance of special use permit in accordance
with the procedures and standards contained in §§
154.125 through
154.128. Such a reduction in lot size may be allowed if the applicant can
demonstrate that no reasonable alternative exists to acquire and assemble
adjacent B-2 zoned property with the property in question. An example of such a
circumstance would be “in-fill” development where all properties, adjacent to
the parcel in question, are already developed and said parcel existed prior to
the adoption of this chapter, or amendment thereto.
      (2)   Minimum building setbacks.
         (a)   Front yard setback: 40 feet;
         (b)   Side yard setback: none (except where such side property line
abuts a dwelling district, where a setback of 25 feet shall be provided);
         (c)   Rear yard setback: 20 feet;
         (d)   Modification of rear or side yard setback: the minimum property
line setback requirements may be modified via the special use permit procedure,
under §§
154.125 through
154.128. Such modifications may be more or less stringent, depending on the
potential impact of the proposed development in the B-2 District which is
adjacent to a dwelling district. In the case of a request for a less stringent
setback, the special use permit applicant must demonstrate screening between
the proposed development and the adjacent residential district above and beyond
the minimum screening requirements contained in §
154.057.
      (3)   Building height limitations.
         (a)   Height limit: 35 feet or three stories.
         (b)   Height limit exceptions: upon special use permit approval (see
§§
154.125 through
154.128) or under an approved planned development (see §
154.037), buildings may exceed the height limit specified above, subject to the
following increases in minimum building setbacks.
            1.   Right-of-way setback. The minimum building setback shall be
increased by one foot for each two feet, or portion thereof, of increased
building height, provided; however, that the setback from the right-of-way does
not have to exceed 100 feet.
            2.   Property line setback. When adjacent to a dwelling district,
the minimum building setback shall be increased by one foot for each two feet,
or portion thereof, of increased building height, provided, however, that the
setback from the property line does not have to exceed 100 feet.
      (4)   Maximum site coverage.
         (a)   For developments encompassing 20,000 square feet or more of land
area, site coverage shall not exceed 70%. Site coverage may be increased by a
factor of 1% to 10%, under the special use permit procedures contained in §§
154.125 through
154.128. Such additional site coverage may be allowed in consideration of
special or outstanding landscape design and site planning features. Such
features to be considered in allowing any additional site coverage includes the
following:
            1.   A professionally designed landscape plan which incorporates
proper irrigation, intense planting, and retention of existing trees and other
plants worthy of saving;
            2.   Use of low masonry walls of architectural quality (brick or
textured and pigmented concrete), terraces, berms, and earth sculpting to
screen parking areas; and
            3.   Special pedestrian facilities and features such as plazas,
covered walkways, fountains, and seating areas.
         (b)   The balance of the site, not covered by buildings and
structures, parking lots, vehicle circulation, and other accessory facilities,
shall be devoted to landscaping, pedestrian circulation, plazas, and buffering.
   (E)   Other development standards. Processes and equipment employed and
goods processed or sold shall be limited to those which are not objectionable
by reason of odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, refuse, water-carried waste,
pollutants, or other matter which in any manner creates a nuisance beyond the
property line of a particular use (also see §
154.062 for performance standards).
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.035  ORI OFFICE, RESEARCH, AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent of the ORI District is to provide areas
in the community within which office, research, and light industrial
enterprises can locate with an assurance of a high and permanent level of
design quality, extensive site amenities, open space, and environmental
protection. The restrictions and conditions applied to this district are
intended to promote the development of a corporate-like business park
atmosphere.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the ORI District.
In addition to the land uses permitted in this district, certain other uses may
be conditionally allowed per division (C) below. Other uses not listed, which
are determined by the Enforcement Officer to be identical or similar to one or
more of the following uses, may be permitted as well. When an unlisted use is
proposed, which appears to meet the intent of this district but its potential
impact is uncertain, then such use shall be considered a special use:
      (1)   Accessory uses (see §
154.056);
      (2)   Advertising agencies;
      (3)   Hotels, including conference centers, meeting, and dining
facilities;
      (4)   Laboratories and ancillary uses (in enclosed structures) for
research and development including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Engineering and testing laboratories;
         (b)   Medical and dental research laboratories; and
         (c)   Agricultural research laboratories, provided that the conduct of
animal, plant, or other biological and genetic research activities outdoors is
prohibited.
      (5)   Manufacturing uses including, but not limited to, electronic,
scientific, and precision instruments manufacture and repair, experimental
product development and plastic products design and assembly, cloth products
manufacture, light machinery production and assembly, printing, and publishing;
      (6)   Offices;
      (7)   Offices, medical and dental;
      (8)   Pilot plants in which processes planned for use in production
elsewhere can be treated to the extent reasonably necessary for full
investigation of the merits of a product or process including commercial
viability;
      (9)   (a)   Convenience, service, and retail uses, as herein enumerated,
within a building, or group of buildings within a unified development, having
40,000 or more square feet of gross floor area, and meeting the following
conditions:
            1.   Is provided principally for the convenience of the owner and/
or tenants of a particular building or buildings within a unified development;
            2.   Does not have exterior signs of any type;
            3.   Does not have separate outside entrance facing any street; and
            4.   The combined square feet of the gross floor area dedicated to
these uses shall not exceed 10% of the gross floor area of the principal
building or group of buildings within a unified development.
         (b)   Convenience, service, and retail activities shall be limited to
the following or similar uses:
            1.   Blueprinting and reprographics establishments;
            2.   Barbershop or beauty parlor;
            3.   Camera and photographic supply shops;
            4.   Candy, ice cream, deli, and sandwich shops;
            5.   Gift shops, tobacco stores, and newsstands;
            6.   Office machine sales and drop-off repair service;
            7.   Office supply store;
            8.   Parcel delivery station of not more than 500 gross square feet
of floor area;
            9.   Photographic development and processing;
            10.   Postal substations and telegraph office;
            11.   Shoe repair shop;
            12.   Tailor and seamstress shop;
            13.   Travel agency; and
            14.   Valet shop, cleaning pick-up and drop-off only (no plant on
premises).
      (10)   Training and educational facilities;
      (11)   Warehousing and distribution facilities, but excluding motor
freight terminals; and
      (12)   Union halls and trade association offices/meeting rooms.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted in the ORI District,
subject to the issuance of a special use permit in accordance with §§
154.125 through
154.128:
      (1)   Any land use and developments which include drive-through
facilities in excess of two lanes;
      (2)   Banks and financial institutions;
      (3)   Clubs, lodges, and fraternal organizations;
      (4)   Day care centers;
      (5)   Heliports;
      (6)   Parking areas, including parking structures, as a principal use of
a property;
      (7)   Public utility facilities, provided that any installation, other
than poles and equipment attached to the poles, shall be:
         (a)   Adequately screened with landscaping, fencing, or walls, or any
combination thereof;
         (b)   Placed underground;
         (c)   Enclosed in a structure in such a manner so as to blend with and
complement the character of the surrounding area; and
         (d)   All plans for screening these facilities shall be submitted as
part of the special use permit application.
      (8)   Police and fire stations;
      (9)   Recreation facilities, commercial or health club;
      (10)   Restaurants; and
      (11)   Showrooms and retail outlets associated with warehouse or
manufacturing facilities where the showroom or retail portion does not exceed
50% of the total floor area.
   (D)   Density and dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.
         (a)   Lot area: 40,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Lot width: 150 feet.
      (2)   Minimum building setbacks.
         (a)   Front yard setback: 50 feet;
         (b)   Side yard setback: 20 feet;
         (c)   Rear yard setback: 20 feet; and
         (d)   Exception: building setback requirements described above for
side or rear yards adjacent to a railroad service spur shall not be applicable.
      (3)   Parking area setback requirements.
         (a)   Front yard: 30 feet;
         (b)   Side yard: 20 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard: 20 feet.
      (4)   Building height limitations.
         (a)   Height limit: 35 feet or three stories; and
         (b)   Height limit exceptions: upon special use permit approval (see
§§
154.125 through
154.128) or under an approved planned development (see §
154.037), buildings may exceed the height limit specified above, subject to the
following increases in minimum building setbacks.
            1.   Right-of-way setback. The minimum building setback shall be
increased by one foot for each two feet, or portion thereof, of increased
building height, provided; however, that the setback from the right-of-way does
not have to exceed 100 feet.
            2.   Property line setback. When adjacent to a dwelling district,
the minimum building setback shall be increased by one foot for each two feet,
or portion thereof, of increased building height, provided; however, that the
setback from the property line does not have to exceed 100 feet.
      (5)   Maximum site coverage. Maximum site coverage: 70%.
   (E)   Other development standards.
      (1)   Every use, unless expressly exempted by this chapter shall be
operated in its entirety within a completely enclosed structure.
      (2)   All outdoor storage areas of goods, products, materials, supplies,
machinery equipment, or commercial vehicles shall not be allowed in the front
yard. In the case of through lots, outdoor storage areas are permitted in those
front yards that do not serve as the access to the lot. Where permitted, these
outdoor storage areas shall be enclosed to a height of eight feet above grade
and screened to an opacity of not less than 75% as follows:
         (a)   A fence eight feet above grade;
         (b)   Berming and/or landscaping screen; or
         (c)   A combination of fencing, berming, and/or landscaping.
      (3)   All rooftop building service equipment must be screened from view
from any street, parking lot, or from grade level of other properties within
the district. All mechanical equipment shall be screened or colored to blend in
with the field color of the building. Rooftop equipment may be permitted
without screening if it is in a location on the roof which is not visible from
adjoining properties.
      (4)   Fencing shall be permitted as follows:
         (a)   Unless otherwise approved via special use permit or under the
planned development district regulations, fences shall not exceed eight feet in
height;
         (b)   Fences shall be designed to be consistent in style and color
with the principal structure. Corrugated fencing material is prohibited. Chain-
link type fencing is permitted if it has been pre-finished in an appropriate
color. Black, brown, or green are recommended for this type of fencing; and
         (c)   However, chain-link fences having an alternative color may be
approved if they are found to be compatible with adjoining structures and if
they are erected along with a mix of trees, shrubs, and other landscaping
features placed along their perimeter.
      (5)   Whenever possible, antennas, satellite dishes, and other
communication transmitting and receiving equipment shall be located to the rear
or hidden side of the building. In the case of through lots, these facilities
are permitted in those front yards that do not serve as the access to the lot
if said facilities are screened between the ground level and eight feet above
the ground with a sight-obscuring fence, wall, or landscaped area placed around
its perimeter.
      (6)   All refuse collection areas and containers shall be fully screened
from streets and adjacent properties with a six foot high sight-obscuring
fence, wall, or landscaped area placed around said facility.
      (7)   Processes and equipment employed and goods processed or sold shall
be limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke,
noise, vibration, refuse, water-carried waste, pollutants, or other matter
which in any manner creates a nuisance beyond the property line of a particular
use (also see § 154.062 for performance standards).
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.036  I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The intent of the I-1 District is to provide areas
in the community within which manufacturing operations of limited types,
wholesale, warehousing, and other compatible uses can locate. This district is
provided to permit the development of such uses and to impose certain
development standards so as to minimize potential negative impacts within and
beyond the district. To these ends certain uses which would function more
effectively in other districts and would interfere with or be impacted by the
operations of industrial activity have been excluded.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the I-1 District.
In addition to the land uses permitted in this district, certain other uses may
be conditionally allowed per division (C) below. Other uses not listed, which
are determined by the Enforcement Officer to be identical or similar to one or
more of the following uses, may be permitted as well. When an unlisted use is
proposed, which appears to meet the intent of this district but its potential
impact is uncertain, then such use shall be considered a special use:
      (1)   Accessory uses (see §
154.056);
      (2)   Any manufacturing, fabricating, assembly, disassembly, processing
or treatment of goods and products including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Appliances, small;
         (b)   Bicycles;
         (c)   Bookbinderies;
         (d)   Canvas and canvas products;
         (e)   Clothing and textiles;
         (f)   Creameries and dairies;
         (g)   Drugs and pharmaceutical products;
         (h)   Electrical components;
         (i)   Food products, but not including operations requiring on-site
pretreatment sanitary waste lagoons;
         (j)   Glass and ceramics;
         (k)   Ice;
         (l)   Musical instruments;
         (m)   Metal polishing and plating;
         (n)   Paper and paper products;
         (o)   Plastic products, but not including processing of raw materials;
         (p)   Rubber products, small, but including the processing raw
materials;
         (q)   Sheet metal;
         (r)   Textiles, spinning, weaving, dyeing, and printing;
         (s)   Tools and hardware, such as hand tools, fasteners, and other
household hardware;
         (t)   Toys; and
         (u)   Wood assembly and finishing.
      (3)   Building contractors office and materials storage;
      (4)   Building material sales and storage;
      (5)   Bus and train stations and terminals;
      (6)   Business, professional, and technical training schools;
      (7)   Cartage and express facilities;
      (8)   Dwellings (one-dwelling unit only) only when used by the caretakers
and their families, who own or are employed in the allowable commercial or
industrial use of the premises;
      (9)   Farm equipment sales and service;
      (10)   Golf courses and other open space recreational uses;
      (11)   Lumberyards;
      (12)   Machinery sales, service, and storage;
      (13)   Machine shops;
      (14)   Magnetic and digital media recording;
      (15)   Motor freight terminals;
      (16)   Offices;
      (17)   Outdoor storage, as a principal use, except junkyards, salvage
yards, and wrecked vehicle storage yards, and provided that no outdoor storage
shall be located with the minimum building setbacks established herein;
      (18)   Parking lots, as a principal use;
      (19)   Plumbing and heating service and equipment stores;
      (20)   Printing establishments;
      (21)   Public buildings, except school buildings;
      (22)   Public utility facilities;
      (23)   Recreational vehicle sales and leasing;
      (24)   Research laboratories and facilities;
      (25)   Showrooms and retail outlets associated with warehouse or
manufacturing facilities where the showroom or retail portion does not exceed
30% of the gross floor area;
      (26)   Sign shops;
      (27)   Tool and dye shops;
      (28)   Truck/trailer sales and leasing;
      (29)   Union halls, hiring halls, and trade association offices/meeting
rooms;
      (30)   Vehicle repair facilities;
      (31)   Vehicle service facilities;
      (32)   Warehouse and wholesale establishments, distribution centers;
      (33)   Warehouses, self-service storage; and
      (34)   Welding shops.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted in the I-1 District,
subject to the issuance of a special use permit in accordance with §§
154.125 through
154.128:
      (1)   Day care centers;
      (2)   Penal and correctional facilities;
      (3)   Recycling centers;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, and sanitary-waste lagoons; and
      (5)   Other occupancies not enumerated in this division (C), but
consistent with I-1 zoning.
   (D)   Density and dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.
         (a)   Lot area: 20,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Lot width: 100 feet.
      (2)   Minimum building setbacks.
         (a)   Front yard setback: 50 feet;
         (b)   Side yard setback: 20 feet;
         (c)   Rear yard setback: 20 feet; and
         (d)   Exception: building setback requirements described above for
side or rear yards adjacent to a railroad service spur shall not be applicable.
Also, a side yard setback of 50 feet and/or a rear yard setback of 50 feet
shall be provided where such property lines abut a dwelling district. In
addition, see §
154.057 for screening requirements.
      (3)   Building height limitations.
         (a)   Height limit: 35 feet or three stories; and
         (b)   Height limit exceptions: upon special use permit approval (see
§§
154.125 through
154.128) or under an approved planned development (see §
154.037), buildings may exceed the height limit specified above, subject to the
following increases in minimum building setbacks.
            1.   Right-of-way setback. The minimum building setback shall be
increased by one foot for each two feet, or portion thereof, of increased
building height, provided, however, that the setback from the right-of-way does
not have to exceed 100 feet.
            2.   Property line setback. When adjacent to a dwelling district,
the minimum building setback shall be increased by one foot for each two feet,
or portion thereof, of increased building height, provided, however, that the
setback from the property line does not have to exceed 100 feet.
      (4)   Maximum site coverage. Maximum site coverage: 70%.
   (E)   Other development standards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise permitted in this district, all uses shall be
operated in its entirety within a completely enclosed structure. This
limitation does not apply to outdoor storage of items that are screened from
public view and located behind the building setback line from a street right-
of-way or a property line.
      (2)   Processes and equipment employed and goods processed or sold shall
be limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke,
noise, vibration, refuse, water-carried waste, pollutants, or other matter
which in any manner creates a nuisance beyond the boundaries of the I-
1 District (also see §
154.062 for performance standards).
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.037  PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the Planned Development District is to provide a
means of achieving greater flexibility in development of land in a manner not
always possible in conventional zoning districts; to encourage a more
imaginative and innovative design of land development; and to promote a more
desirable community environment.
      (2)   The Village Board, upon recommendation by the Plan Commission, may,
by an ordinance adopted in the same manner as a rezoning is approved, authorize
a Planned Development District when the proposed development or use of a
specific tract of land or area warrants greater flexibility, control and
density than is afforded under the general regulations of standard zoning
districts. These planned development regulations are not intended to allow
excessive densities, or the development of incompatible land uses, either
within the development, or as the development relates to the general
neighborhood. The Village Board may, upon proper application, approve a planned
development to facilitate the use of flexible techniques of land development
and site design, by providing relief from conventional zoning standards in
order to achieve one or more of the following objectives:
         (a)   Site planning that better adapts to site conditions and its
relation to surrounding properties that would not otherwise be possible or
would be inhibited under the district regulations applicable to the property;
         (b)   Functional and beneficial uses of open space areas;
         (c)   Preservation of natural features of a development site;
         (d)   Creation of a safe and desirable living environment for
residential areas characterized by a unified building and site development
program;
         (e)   Rational and economical in relation to public utilities and
services; and
         (f)   Efficient and effective traffic circulation, both within and
adjacent to the development site.
   (B)   Relationship of Planned Development Districts to Zoning Map.
      (1)   A mapped district. The PD designation is not intended to be
attached to existing zoning districts as an overlay. The PD designation, as
detailed in this section, is a separate use district and may be attached to a
parcel of land through the process of rezoning and zoning map amendment.
      (2)   Plan approval required. It is the intent of this chapter that no
development or redevelopment of the property encompassed by the PD designation
take place until an acceptable development plan has been reviewed and approved
in conformance with the requirements of this section, §§
154.190 through
154.193, and applicable sections of
Chapter 153 of this code.
   (C)   Coordination with
Chapter 153 of this code.
      (1)   When a planned development involves any subdivision activity, the
subdivision review and approval procedure requirements contained in
Chapter 153 of this code shall be carried out simultaneously with the review of
a planned development under this section of this chapter. As applicable,
reference is made to requirements in
Chapter 153 of this code within this section. With regard to these references,
Chapter 153 of this code may contain the term “plat”, which under the PD
District requirements is intended to be synonymous with “plan” as appropriate.
      (2)   Since obtaining a PD District designation requires a map amendment
(rezoning), the requirements and procedures of §§
154.190 through
154.193, shall apply. As applicable, reference to §§
154.190 through
154.193 is made within this section.
   (D)   Types of planned developments. An area approved for the PD designation
shall be assigned one of the following district classifications which shall be
considered a separate zoning district and subject to the specific restrictions
and limitations outlined in this section.
      (1)   Planned Development - Residential (PD-R). Planned developments
involving residential uses.
      (2)   Planned Development - Commercial (PD-C). Planned developments
involving commercial uses.
      (3)   Planned Development - Industrial (PD-I). Planned developments
involving industrial and limited commercial uses.
      (4)   Planned Development - Mixed Use (PD-MXD). Planned developments
involving residential and limited commercial uses.
   (E)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Planned Development - Residential (PD-R).
         (a)   Permitted uses shall be established in the conditions of the
ordinance adopted by the Village Board governing the particular Planned
Development - Residential District. Specific uses may include those uses
designated as permitted or special uses in any of the dwelling districts.
         (b)   In addition to those uses included in division (E)(1)(a) above,
the following uses may be designated as permitted uses and established as such
in the ordinance governing the particular Planned Development - Residential
District:
            1.   Patio dwellings; and
            2.   Zero lot line residential developments.
      (2)   Planned Development - Commercial (PD-C). Permitted uses shall be
established in the conditions of the ordinance adopted by the Village Board
governing the particular Planned Development - Commercial District. Specific
uses may only include those uses designated as permitted or special uses in the
business districts.
      (3)   Planned Development - Industrial/Commercial (PD-I). Permitted uses
shall be established in the conditions of the ordinance adopted by the Village
Board governing the particular Planned Development - Industrial District.
Specific uses may only include those uses designated as permitted uses in the
I-1 District, special uses in the I-1 District, and permitted or special uses
in the business districts, which are specifically related to the particular
development.
      (4)   Planned Development - Mixed Use (PD-MXD). Permitted uses shall be
established in the conditions of the ordinances adopted by the Village Board
governing the particular Planned Development - Mixed Use District. Specific
uses may include those uses designated as permitted or special uses in any of
the dwelling districts and permitted special uses in the B-1 Neighborhood
Business District.
   (F)   Minimum planned development site size. The minimum site size for any
of the Planned Development Districts shall be five acres. This minimum site
size may be waived by the Village Board upon report by the Plan Commission; if
it is determined that the use proposed is desirable or necessary in
relationship to the surrounding neighborhood; or, if the Village Board should
determine such waiver to be in the general public interest.
   (G)   Density and dimensional regulations and performance standards.
      (1)   General standards.
         (a)   The approval of the development plan may provide for such
exceptions from the regulations associated with traditional zoning districts as
may be necessary or desirable to achieve the objectives of the proposed planned
development. No planned development shall be allowed which would result in:
            1.   Inadequate or unsafe vehicular access to the development;
            2.   Peak-hour traffic volumes exceeding the capacity of the
adjoining or nearby streets. Capacity shall be based on a street providing
“level of service D” as defined in the latest publication of Transportation and
Traffic Engineers Handbook, Institute of Transportation Engineers;
            3.   An undue burden on public parks, recreation areas, schools,
fire and police protection, and other public facilities which serve or are
proposed to serve the planned development;
            4.   A failure to comply with the performance standards contained
in §
154.062;
            5.   Other detrimental impacts on the surrounding area including,
but not limited to, visual pollution.
         (b)   In addition to the above requirements, all planned developments
shall be subject to the review criteria established in §
154.127(A). It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to clearly
establish that the above requirements are met.
      (2)   Other codes. All requirements of other codes and ordinances of the
village (such as, Building Code) shall be applicable.
      (3)   Planned Development - Residential (PD-R).
         (a)   Density. The density of residential development shall be
consistent with the intent of the original underlying residential districts.
While the district regulations specifies upper limits to residential density,
density of a planned development may be limited to that which is established in
the original residential district or which is consistent and compatible with
nearby existing developed areas. Conversely, the density limits indicated in
the district regulations may be exceeded on portions of the site within a PD-
R District as long as the total site density limit is not exceeded. This is
referred to as “density transfer”. Additionally, the total site density may be
exceeded up to a limit, upon conclusion of the Plan Commission and the Village
Board that the density bonus provisions contained in division (G)(3)(c) below
have been satisfied. This is referred to as “density bonus”.
         (b)   Calculation of density.
            1.   The computation of density shall be based on dwelling units
per net acre for the entire site.
            2.   To compute the number of dwelling units per net acre, 15% of
the gross acreage of the parcel shall be deducted and the net acreage divided
by the lowest minimum lot size of the underlying residential district. The
following provides an example of density calculation for a 20 acre tract in the
R-3 District:
 
20 acres x 43,560 square feet per acre = 871,200 square feet
871,200 square feet - (871,200 x 0.15) = 740,520 square feet
740,520/6,000 square feet minimum lot size = 123 dwelling units
 
            3.   In situations where a proposed PD-R District overlaps two or
more dwelling districts, density shall be calculated separately for the
portions of the PD-R District in each of the original residential districts.
         (c)   Density bonus. The Plan Commission may recommend and the Village
Board may approve an increase in density within a PD-R District, up to a
maximum of 20%, which shall be based on the precepts listed below. The density
bonuses shall be treated as additives and not compounded.
 
Maximum
Percentage Design Element
Increase
           A minimum of an additional 5% of the net development area devoted to common open
10%        space (above the minimum requirement) and improved with public pedestrian ways,
           bike paths, park land, swimming pools, tennis courts, community centers, club
           buildings, and the like.
           Creative site designs and building groupings, which take advantage of natural
           terrain and resolve existing on-site and off-site water runoff and erosion
5%         problems. The provision of storm drainage retention as a site amenity is
           encouraged.
           Variations in building design are permissible.
           Creative use of landscape materials and the provision of more extensive
           landscaping than would otherwise be required under the landscaping requirements
5%         found elsewhere in this chapter.
           If density bonuses (increases) are requested under this section, the applicant
           shall document all site amenities or improvements for the village’s review and
           consideration.
 
         (d)   Development phasing. If the sequence of construction of various
portions of the development is to occur in stages, then the open space and/or
recreational facilities shall be developed, or legally provided for on a final
plat, in reasonable proportion to the number of dwelling units intended to be
developed during any given stage of construction as approved on a final plat by
the Village Board. Furthermore, at no time during the construction of the
project shall the number of constructed dwelling units per acre of developed
land exceed the overall density per net acre established by the approved PD-
R District.
         (e)   Nonresidential uses in PD-R developments. Nonresidential uses
are limited to those specifically listed in the dwelling zoning districts. Such
nonresidential uses shall be subject to all requirements for lot area, width,
height, yards, and setbacks prescribed in the district in which the proposed
PD-R development is located.
         (f)   Common open space requirements.
            1.   Common open space shall comprise at least 15% of the gross
area of the residential development or be of a size equivalent to one acre for
each 100 persons of expected population of the development, whichever is
greater. For purposes of this division (G)(3)(f)1., the expected population
shall be determined by multiplying the total number of dwelling units times two
and one-half persons per dwelling unit.
            2.   Common open space shall be used for recreational, park, or
environmental amenity purposes for the collective enjoyment of the occupants of
the development.
            3.   In addition to the above open space requirements, the
following regulates the use of this common open space in terms of physical
surface characteristics, size, location, and physical improvements therein.
               a.   Of the required common open space, up to one-half of it may
be covered by water, floodplain, stormwater detention/retention facilities or
left in a natural state.
               b.   The area of each parcel of open space shall not be less
than 6,000 square feet in area nor less than 30 feet in its smallest dimension.
In addition, at least 50% of the common open space shall be contiguous or
connected via pedestrian/bicycle paths or sidewalks.
               c.   To the extent practicable, common open spaces should be
distributed equitably throughout the development in relation to the dwelling
units which such common open space is intended to serve. The open space shall
not be isolated in one corner of a development, but shall be highly accessible
(physically and/or visually) to the residents of the development.
            4.   Where common open space is to be provided in a subdivided
residential development, the use, operation, and maintenance of areas for
common open space, common ground, and common buildings shall be guaranteed by
the establishment of a trust indenture providing for such by a subdivision
association or trustees. Said indenture shall be approved by the Village
Attorney prior to recording the indenture simultaneously with the recording of
the final plat.
         (g)   Perimeter buffer requirements.
            1.   Where a PD-R development proposes residential development
along the perimeter of the site, which is higher in density than that of an
adjacent dwelling district, there shall be a minimum 30-foot wide buffer area.
The buffer area shall be kept free of buildings or structures and shall be
landscaped or protected by natural features so that all higher-density
residential buildings are effectively screened from the abutting lower density
residential property.
            2.   Where a PD-R development abuts a commercial or industrial use
or district, there shall be a minimum 30-foot wide buffer area. This buffer
area shall be permanent and landscaped and/or otherwise provided with screening
(for example, sight proof fencing) so as to effectively screen the commercial
or industrial use from the PD-R development.
      (4)   Planned Development - Commercial or Industrial (PD-C or PD-I).
         (a)   Site coverage. Total site coverage by uses permitted in the PD-
C or PD-I Districts shall not exceed 70%, except as permitted in division (G)
(4)(b) below.
         (b)   Site coverage bonus. The Plan Commission may recommend and the
Village Board may approve an increase in maximum site coverage from 70% up to
80%. In order to qualify for this bonus, the development plan must demonstrate
compliance with four or more of the following performance criteria:
            1.   Incorporate storm drainage retention facilities as a site
amenity;
            2.   Install storm drainage detention facilities underground;
            3.   Increasing parking lot landscaping by 50% more than otherwise
required;
            4.   Submitting for approval developments on tracts that are five
or more acres in size;
            5.   Design of principal access to the development tract at an
approved location that allows for shared access by an adjacent property;
            6.   Construction of separate grade pedestrian and bicycle paths;
            7.   Providing for screened loading areas;
            8.   Demonstration of a development using innovative architectural,
site planning, and land use design and of such quality as to set an excellent
example for subsequent development or redevelopment projects; and
            9.   Any other performance criteria that further the goals,
objectives, and policies of the Comprehensive Plan and that, in the opinion of
the Plan Commission and Village Board warrant the approval of development
bonuses.
         (c)   Signage.
            1.   Signage shall be in compliance with §§
154.090 through
154.098, unless the applicant for a PD-C or PD-I District designation elects to
submit a comprehensive sign plan in addition to the submission of other
required development plan documents. The Plan Commission may recommend, and the
Village Board may approve, a comprehensive sign plan and such plan shall be
made part of the ordinance approving the PD District. This chapter may contain
conditions, requirements, or standards regarding signs that may be stipulated
by the Village Board. Comprehensive sign plans approved under this section
shall be evaluated based upon the following criteria.
               a.   Placement. All signs shall be placed where they are
sufficiently visible and readable for their function. Factors to be considered
shall include the purpose of the sign, its location relative to traffic
movement and access points, site features, structures, and sign orientation
relative to viewing distances and viewing angles.
               b.   Quantity. The number of signs that may be approved within
any development shall be no greater than that required to provide project
identification and entry signs, internal circulation, and directional
information to destinations and development subareas and business
identification. Factors to be considered shall include the size of the
development, the number of development subareas, and the division or
integration of sign functions.
               c.   Size. All signs shall be no larger than necessary for
visibility and readability. Factors to be considered in determining appropriate
size shall include topography, volume of traffic, speed of traffic, visibility
range, proximity to adjacent uses, amount of sign copy, placement of display
(location and height), lettering style, and the presence of distractive
influences. In no event shall a plan contain a sign which exceeds by more than
50% either or both the maximum area standard and the maximum height standard
contained in §§
154.090 through
154.098, unless otherwise waived by the Village Board.
               d.   Materials. Sign materials shall be compatible with
architectural and/or natural features of the project. This may be accomplished
through similarity of materials for sign structures and faces, the use of
complementary colors, similarity of architectural style, or the use of
consistent lettering style and typography.
            2.   A request for approval for a comprehensive sign plan shall
accompany the request for PD-C or PD-I zoning classification and shall include,
but is not limited to, the following:
               a.   A site plan, depicting the proposed plan of development and
illustration of proposed sign locations;
               b.   Descriptions and drawings indicating size, qualities,
materials, and illumination; and
               c.   A narrative description of the common theme for signage
within the development, how it relates to architectural and/or landscaping
elements of the development, and how the comprehensive sign plan relates to
each of the criteria set forth in this section.
         (d)   Perimeter buffer requirements. Where a PD-C or a PD-
I development abuts a dwelling district; there shall be a minimum 50-foot
buffer area between any nonresidential use and the adjacent dwelling district.
This buffer area shall be landscaped in accordance with §
154.057.
         (e)   Minimum building setbacks. Building setbacks shall be in
accordance with the approved site plan for a PD-C or PD-I development. Where a
commercial or industrial use abuts a dwelling district, the minimum building
setbacks established in the district regulations shall apply.
      (5)   Planned Development - Mixed Use.
         (a)   Density. Residential density shall not exceed eight dwelling
units per net acre.
         (b)   Site coverage. Total site coverage by uses permitted in the PD-
MXD District shall not exceed 70%, except as permitted to be exceeded in
accordance with (G)(4)(b) above.
         (c)   Signage. See division (G)(4)(c) above.
         (d)   Perimeter buffer requirements.
            1.   When the residential portion of the development is along the
perimeter of the site and is higher in density than that of an adjacent
dwelling district, there shall be a minimum 30-foot wide buffer area. The
buffer area shall be kept free of buildings or structures and shall be
landscaped or protected by natural features so that all higher-density
residential buildings are effectively screened from the abutting lower density
residential property.
            2.   When commercial development abuts a dwelling district, there
shall be a minimum 50-foot buffer area between the commercial use and the
adjacent dwelling district. This buffer area shall be landscaped in accordance
with §
154.057.
         (e)   Minimum building setbacks. Building setbacks shall be in
accordance with the approved site plan for a PD-MXD. In no case shall a
commercial or other nonresidential building be located closer than 25 feet from
the property line of a lot located in a dwelling district.
   (H)   Other development regulations applicable to PD Districts.
      (1)   “Supplementary Regulations”, §§
154.050 through
154.062;
      (2)   “Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements”, §§
154.075 through
154.079;
      (3)   “Signs”, §§
154.090 through
154.098 (except as may be modified through a comprehensive sign plan; see
division (G)(4)(c) above); and
      (4)   Chapter 153 of this code.
   (I)   Dedication and reservation of land. Whenever a planned development
embraces all or any part of an arterial street, collector street, drainageway,
or other public way which has been designated in the adopted comprehensive plan
or other official plans of the village, sufficient land shall be dedicated or
reserved on the development plan for said public improvements in a manner
similar to that required of all subdivisions as specified in
Chapter 153 of this code.
   (J)   Sketch plan.
      (1)   Sketch plan meeting.
         (a)   Prior to petitioning for a rezoning to one of the planned
development districts, the prospective applicant shall schedule a pre-
application meeting with the Enforcement Officer. The Enforcement Officer may
request that other village department representatives attend this meeting. At
this meeting, the prospective applicant shall provide general information on
the proposed development, including site location, existing site conditions,
and a sketch plan of the proposed planned development. The Enforcement Officer
shall report to the applicant, the staffs evaluation of the sketch plan, with
respect to its compliance with the intent of the planned development
regulations, as soon as practical after the meeting.
         (b)   The sketch plan meeting is a required, but an informal procedure
intended to benefit the prospective applicant, by allowing for an exchange of
ideas, information, and to provide an opportunity to review the requirements of
the PD District regulations with the prospective applicant. No formal approval
from the Enforcement Officer or other village staff is required prior to
proceeding with the preliminary development plan stage.
      (2)   Contents of sketch plan. The information that should be included
with the sketch plan is itemized in
Chapter 153 of this code. In addition to items listed in that section, the
following information shall be included as well:
         (a)   Building outlines (footprints) of all structures, except one-
family detached dwellings proposed on subdivided lots;
         (b)   Circulation plan, including circulation drives and parking
areas;
         (c)   Conceptual landscaping plan, open space/common areas and buffer
areas between the proposed development and adjacent properties.
   (K)   Pre-application meeting with Plan Commission.
      (1)   Prior to formal application of rezoning to a PD District, the
applicant shall submit the sketch plan for review by the Plan Commission. The
applicant shall submit ten copies of the sketch plan documents to the
Enforcement Officer at least 20 days prior to the Plan Commission meeting at
which the applicant wishes to have the plan reviewed;
      (2)   Within 30 days of the pre-application meeting held to review the
sketch plan, the Plan Commission shall inform the prospective applicant that
the sketch plan does or does not meet the intent of the PD regulations. Any
action by the Plan Commission on the sketch plan does not constitute approval
or endorsement of a proposed development; and
      (3)   Applicant attendance not mandatory.
   (L)   Preliminary development plan procedure.
      (1)   Preliminary development plan submittal requirements. The
preliminary development plan submitted shall include the information required
in
Chapter 153 of this code. In addition to these submittal requirements, see
division (K)(1) above for copies and submittal dates, and the following shall
be submitted as applicable:
         (a)   Gross and net acreage of tract;
         (b)   Building outlines (footprints) of all structures, except one-
family detached dwellings proposed on subdivided lots;
         (c)   Internal private circulation drives and parking areas, except
driveways associated with one-family detached dwellings proposed on subdivided
lots;
         (d)   Maximum number of dwelling units allowed per the original zoning
district or districts;
         (e)   Number of dwelling units proposed and number of bedrooms, when
parking requirements are based on bedroom count per dwelling unit;
         (f)   Number of off-street parking spaces required and proposed;
         (g)   The location, gross floor area of, and distance between
buildings and structures. Floor area for nonresidential uses shall be
identified by use type;
         (h)   The proposed location, size, landscaping, and general use of
common ground, including recreational areas, plazas, and buffer areas.
Landscaping information shall include location and approximate size (at time of
planting) of all plant material by type (such as deciduous/coniferous trees,
ornamental trees, shrub masses and ground cover including grassed areas, ivies,
and the like). Landscaping within parking areas shall be included;
         (i)   The location and details of all retaining walls, fences, and
earth berms;
         (j)   The location of all refuse collection facilities including
screening to be provided;
         (k)   Illustrative site cross-sections (two minimum) indicating edge
conditions and internal grade changes in relation to principal variations of
building elevations and site-lines to adjacent properties/structures;
         (l)   Typical building elevations of sufficient scale and detail to
illustrate building mass, exterior construction materials, and signage if
applicable;
         (m)   Project report to include an explanation of the character of the
proposed development, verification of the applicant’s ownership, or contractual
interest in the subject site and proposed development schedule; and
         (n)   The applicant may be required to provide such additional
clarification and/or detail of the site plan as determined by the Enforcement
Officer or the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Preliminary development plan review procedure.
         (a)   The review procedure for a preliminary development plan shall be
in accordance with the review procedure for a preliminary plat, specified under
§§
153.020 through
153.022. The Plan Commission may recommend approval, disapproval, or approval
with amendments, conditions, or restrictions with respect to the preliminary
development plan; and
         (b)   Applicant attendance mandatory.
   (M)   Public hearing on preliminary development plan and rezoning request. A
public hearing on the rezoning request and the associated preliminary
development plan shall take place before the Plan Commission in accordance with
§
154.192(B).
   (N)   Village Board action on preliminary development plan and rezoning
request.
      (1)   Village Board action on the rezoning request shall be subject to
the provisions of §
154.192(C).
      (2)   If the preliminary development plan is approved by the Village
Board, it shall adopt a resolution approving said preliminary development plan,
with conditions as may be specified and authorizing the preparation of the
final development plan.
      (3)   Simultaneously with the approval of the preliminary development
plan, the Village Board shall adopt an ordinance rezoning the site to the
appropriate PD District and said ordinance shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Legal description of the development site;
         (b)   The planned district zoning classification approved;
         (c)   Reference to the resolution approving the preliminary
development plan and which authorizes preparation of the final development
plan;
         (d)   A statement requiring approval of a final development plan and
plat (if applicable), by the Village Board, prior to issuing building permits;
         (e)   PD-R developments: the number and type of dwelling units
authorized, including number of bedrooms per dwelling unit by type, and the
total square footage authorized for any nonresidential use permitted;
         (f)   PD-C and PD-I developments: the total square footage authorized
for all commercial, office, and/or industrial uses;
         (g)   PD-MXD developments: the number and type of dwelling units
authorized, including the number of bedrooms per dwelling unit by type, and the
total square footage authorized for commercial uses or other nonresidential
uses;
         (h)   Building and structure height limitations;
         (i)   Minimum building setback requirements;
         (j)   Off-street parking requirements (via reference to §§
154.075 through
154.079);
         (k)   Reference to §§
154.090 through
154.098, or reference to an approved comprehensive sign plan, as provided for
in division (G)(4)(c) above; and
         (l)   Acreage and function of common open space.
   (O)   Effect of approval of preliminary development plan and period of
validity.
      (1)   All conditions imposed as a part of any planned development shall
run with the land and shall not lapse or be waived as a result of a subsequent
change in ownership of any or all of said area.
      (2)   Approval of the preliminary development plan by the Village Board
is merely an authorization to proceed with the preparation of the final
development plan.
      (3)   Approval of the preliminary development plan shall be valid for a
period of two years from the date of Village Board approval. If an application
for final plan approval for all or a geographic portion of the preliminary plan
has not been filed within the two-year period, then a resubmission of the
preliminary development plan shall be required if the applicant intends to
pursue final plan approval. The Village Board, upon recommendation from the
Plan Commission, may grant up to a one-year extension, from the date that the
period of validity expired. The Council may reject such resubmission of the
same development plan in light of new facts and circumstances relating to the
development plan.
      (4)   In no case shall a building permit be issued prior to final
development plan approval.
      (5)   At such time the period of validity has expired, the resolution
approving preliminary development plan shall become null and void. In the event
that the development plan involved rezoning all or a portion of the property
comprising the development, the Village Board may initiate proceedings to
rezone the property to its original or other appropriate zoning district, in
accordance with the procedures and requirements of §§
154.190 through
154.193.
   (P)   Final development plan procedure.
      (1)   Final development plan submittal requirements. The final
development plan shall include the required information described in
Chapter 153 of this code, as applicable. In addition to these submittal
requirements, the following shall be submitted:
         (a)   The information required for the preliminary development plan,
except that it be in its final form; and
         (b)   The final landscape plan with specific location of all plant
material, specifying size and species.
      (2)   Compliance with approved preliminary development plan. The final
development plan shall be in substantial compliance with the approved
preliminary development plan. Modifications and refinements, resulting from the
final design process may be approved. In no event shall any modification of the
development plan result in the following:
         (a)   A change in the use or character of the development;
         (b)   An increase in building or site coverage;
         (c)   An increase in the intensity of use (such as, number of dwelling
units);
         (d)   An increase in vehicular traffic generation or significant
changes in traffic access and circulation; and
         (e)   A reduction in approved open space or required buffer areas.
      (3)   Final development plan review and approval. The procedure for
reviewing and approving the final development plan shall be in accordance with
§§
153.070 through
153.072.
   (Q)   Recording of final development plan. After the final development plan
(and subdivision plat, if applicable), and other associated documents have been
approved by the Village Board, the applicant shall record the final development
plan in accordance with provisions of
Chapter 153 of this code.
   (R)   Amendments to final development plan.
      (1)   Minor changes. Minor changes in the location, siting, and height of
buildings and structures may be authorized by the Enforcement Officer if
required by engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the time the
final plan was approved. No change authorized by this section shall cause any
of the following:
         (a)   A change in the use or character of the development;
         (b)   An increase in building or site coverage;
         (c)   An increase in the intensity of use (such as, number of dwelling
units);
         (d)   An increase in vehicular traffic generation or significant
changes in traffic access and circulation;
         (e)   A reduction in approved open space or required buffer areas; or
         (f)   A change in the record plat.
      (2)   Plan amendments. All proposed changes in use, or rearrangement of
lots, blocks, and building tracts, changes in the provision of common open
spaces, and changes which would cause any of the situations listed under
division (R)(1) above shall be subject to approval by the Village Board. In
such event, the applicant shall file a revised development plan and be subject
to the requirements of this section as if it were an entirely new application
pursuant to the requirements of division (M) above.
   (S)   Failure to initiate construction after final development plan
approval.
      (1)   Period of validity. No approval of a final development plan shall
be valid for a period longer than two years from the date of approval unless
within such period a building permit is obtained and construction of a
development’s foundation is commenced.
      (2)   Extension. The Village Board may grant a one-year extension upon
written request of the original applicant if the application submitted is
substantially the same as the initially-approved application.
      (3)   Lapse in period of validity. At such time as the period of validity
of an approved final development plan lapses, the final development plan and
all uses, terms, and conditions thereof may be declared null and void and the
Village Board may initiate proceedings to rezone the site to its original or
other appropriate zoning district in accordance procedures and requirements of
§§
154.190 through
154.192.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001; Ord. 987, passed 2-6-2014)
§ 154.038  PA PUBLIC ACTIVITY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The PA District is intended to accommodate those
uses and groupings of uses which have a distinctly public character and to
encourage the retention of certain properties in a relatively undeveloped
state, such as public recreation uses or cemeteries.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses permitted in the PA District. In
addition to the land uses permitted in this district, certain other uses may be
conditionally allowed per division (C) below. Other uses not listed, which are
determined by the Enforcement Officer to be identical or similar to one or more
of the following uses, may be permitted as well. When an unlisted use is
proposed, which appears to meet the intent of this district but its potential
impact is uncertain, then such use shall be considered a special use.
      (1)   Accessory uses (see §
154.056);
      (2)   Dwellings (one dwelling unit only) only when used by the caretakers
and their families, who are employed in the allowable use of the premises;
      (3)   Home occupations (see §
154.059);
      (4)   Parks and playgrounds, public, including golf courses;
      (5)   Parks and recreational areas, semi-public or private; when owned
and operated by a not-for-profit institution;
      (6)   Places of worship;
      (7)   Publically-owned buildings and properties of a cultural,
recreational, administrative, or service type, including libraries, but not
including auditoriums and other places of public assembly as a principal use;
      (8)   Public schools; and
      (9)   Public or private wildlife preservation and conservation areas,
including floodplains.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted in the PA District,
subject to the issuance of a special use permit in accordance with §§
154.125 through
154.128:
      (1)   Airports, commercial;
      (2)   Auditoriums and other places of public assembly as a principal use;
      (3)   Cemeteries, including crematories and mausoleums in conjunction
therewith, provided that crematories shall not be located closer than 500 feet
to the lot line of any existing dwelling or the boundary of any dwelling
district;
      (4)   Convents and rectories, in connection with a place of worship and
located on the same or adjacent lot;
      (5)   Day care center;
      (6)   Dormitories;
      (7)   Hospitals, residential, and outpatient substance abuse treatment
centers, and other institutions of a religious, educational, or charitable or
philanthropic nature;
      (8)   Institutional offices;
      (9)   Public utility facilities;
      (10)   Publically-owned buildings or properties including repair yards,
garages, or storage warehouses; and
      (11)   Schools, private; including college or university level
facilities.
   (D)   Density and dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.
         (a)   Lot area: no minimum; and
         (b)   Lot width: no minimum.
      (2)   Minimum building setbacks.
         (a)   Right-of-way setback: 25 feet; and
         (b)   Property line setback: none (except a property line setback of
50 feet shall be provided where such property line abuts a dwelling district.
Also, see §
154.057 for screening requirements.
      (3)   Building height limitations.
         (a)   Height limit: 35 feet or three stories; and
         (b)   Height limit exceptions: upon special use permit approval (see
§§
154.125 through
154.128) or under an approved planned development (see §
154.037), buildings may exceed the height limit specified above, subject to the
following increases in minimum building setbacks.
            1.   Right-of-way setback. The minimum building setback shall be
increased by one foot for each two feet, or portion thereof, of increased
building height, provided; however, that the setback from the right-of-way does
not have to exceed 100 feet.
            2.   Property line setback. When adjacent to a dwelling district,
the minimum building setback shall be increased by one foot for each two feet,
or portion thereof, of increased building height, provided, however, that the
setback from the property line does not have to exceed 100 feet.
      (4)   Maximum site coverage. Maximum site coverage is 50%. Site coverage
computations shall take into account existing buildings, parking areas, and
drives located within the same site, provided that the “same site” shall not
include property located opposite and across any street right-of-way or other
remote properties.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.039  FP FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the FP Floodplain Overlay District to restrict or
prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and property due to
floodwater inundation; to require that uses vulnerable to floods comply with
certain development standards; and to control filling, grading, dredging, and
other development which may increase erosion or flood damage.
      (2)   It is also the purpose of this district to comply with the rules
and regulations of the National Flood Insurance Program as promulgated by the
Federal Emergency Management Administration and the Federal Insurance
Administration.
   (B)   Scope of provisions. This section contains the regulations for the FP
Floodplain Overlay District of the village. Property zoned “FP” is also zoned
under another applicable district established by this chapter or amendment
thereto. The FP District constitutes an “overlay” district, and the other
applicable zoning district constitutes the underlying zoning. This section
controls in the case of any conflict between the regulations contained in this
section and the regulations otherwise applicable to any property by virtue of
its “underlying” zoning. All of the area within the FP District is the
floodplain, as defined in this chapter, and is subject to all of the provisions
of this section and said ordinance.
   (C)   Boundaries. The FP Overlay District boundaries shall be based on the
flood boundary and floodway maps of the village prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated August 4, 1987, and any official
amendments thereto. The FP Overlay District within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village shall be based on the flood boundary and floodway
maps of the county prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
dated January 17, 1986, and any official amendments thereto.
   (D)   Permitted uses. Uses listed as permitted or special uses in the
underlying district are allowed only if, and to the extent, such use meets the
requirements of the underlying district and the regulations of the FP
Floodplain Overlay District.
   (E)   Conditions of use. All permitted and special uses within the FP
Floodplain Overlay District are subject to the following conditions of use.
      (1)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by
law shall commence any construction, substantial improvement, subdivision of
land, or other development in the FP Floodplain Overlay District without first
obtaining a development permit in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   All public or private road surfaces shall be constructed above the
base flood elevation, as defined in this chapter.
      (3)   No substantial improvement or addition to a building may take place
unless the entire building is brought into compliance with the requirements of
this chapter.
      (4)   No development shall occur in the floodway except the following
uses:
         (a)   Bridges, culverts, roadways, walkways, railways, and any
modification thereto, which are necessary for crossing the floodway;
         (b)   Floodproofing activities to protect existing structures
including the construction of water-tight window wells, or construction of
flood walls around residential, commercial, or industrial principal structures
where the outside toe of the flood wall shall be no more than ten feet away
from the exterior wall of the existing structure, which are not considered
substantial improvements to the structure;
         (c)   Public flood control structures, dikes, dams, and other public
works or private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding of
existing structures, erosion, or water quality or habitat for fish, wildlife,
and native vegetation;
         (d)   Storm and sanitary sewer outfalls; and
         (e)   Underground and overhead utilities.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 154.050  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   These regulations supplement and qualify regulations contained elsewhere in
this chapter. Unless otherwise stated, the regulations hereafter established
shall apply to all districts established by this chapter.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.051  NUMBER OF PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS ON A ZONING LOT.
   Except for detached one-family and two-family dwellings, more than one
principal building may be located on the same zoning lot provided that density
and dimensional requirements of this chapter shall be met for each principal
building as though they were on individual lots.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.052  CONFORMITY WITH DIMENSIONAL AND OFF-STREET PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The maintenance of yards, other open space, and minimum lot area
required for a structure shall be a continuing obligation of the owner of such
property on which it is located as long as the structure is in existence.
   (B)   No required yards, other open space, or minimum lot area allocated to
any structure shall be used to satisfy required yards, other open spaces, or
minimum lot area requirements for any other structure.
   (C)   There shall be no obstructions permitted in required yards except as
hereinafter set forth.
   (D)   Except as provided for in §§
154.075 through
154.079, no required off-street parking area required for a use on a zoning lot
shall be used to satisfy the required off-street parking for a use of another
zoning lot.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.053  LOT AREA AND WIDTH EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Within the R-2 and R-3 Districts, a reduction in the minimum lot area
and/or lot width for detached one-family dwellings may be granted by the
Enforcement Officer if the lot area and/or width are consistent with the
prevailing pattern of the record subdivision in which the lot is located.
   (B)   In determining the prevailing pattern of a subdivision, the lot area
and/or width of at least ten of the closest lots shall be considered or, if
there are fewer than ten lots, the prevailing pattern of the lots on the block
frontage shall be considered.
   (C)   In no case shall an exception be granted for any lot which is less
than 5,000 square feet in area nor less than 50 feet in width at the building
setback line.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.054  HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator equipment enclosures, monuments, tanks,
water towers, ornamental towers and spires, church steeples, radio, television,
cellular or microwave towers, or necessary mechanical apparatus usually
required to be placed above the roof level are not subject to the height
limitations contained in the district regulations.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.055  SETBACK EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   General setback exceptions. Every part of a yard between the property
lines and the required building setback line shall be unoccupied and
unobstructed by any structure or portion of a structure from ground level of
the graded lot upward, except for the following.
      (1)   All yards.
         (a)   Hedges, flagpoles, and other customary yard accessories,
ornaments, and furniture are permitted in any yard subject to location and size
limitations, height limitations, and requirements limiting obstruction of
visibility contained in this chapter (see §
154.061);
         (b)   Steps, ramps, or wheelchair lifts, four feet or less above
grade, which are necessary for access to a permitted building or structure, or
for access to a zoning lot from a street or alley. Guardrails, not exceeding 42
inches above the walking surface, are permitted as well;
         (c)   Awnings and canopies, projecting three feet or less into the
required yard setback, except as provided for in division (A)(2)(c) below;
         (d)   Ordinary projections of chimneys or other vent pipes that are
suitably concealed, projecting 18 inches or less into the required yard
setback;
         (e)   Fences, subject to the requirements of §
154.058; and
         (f)   Traffic control devices, pad-mounted transformers, service
pedestals, splice boxes, and similar appurtenances required for underground
utility and cable systems.
      (2)   Front yards.
         (a)   Terraces shall not extend into the required front yard setback
by more than ten feet. Guardrails around terraces are permitted as well,
provided that such guardrails shall be limited to 42 inches above the surface
of such terraces;
         (b)   One-story bay windows projecting three feet or less into the
required front yard setback;
         (c)   Awnings, canopies, and marquees in the B-2 District are
permitted to project into the street right-of-way, subject to the requirements
and limitations of the Building Code;
         (d)   Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting four feet or less into
the required front yard setback;
         (e)   Off-street parking areas and access drives (see § 154.077(C),
for limitations on the location for such areas); and
         (f)   Signs, subject to the regulations contained in §§
154.090 through
154.098.
      (3)   Rear yards.
         (a)   Terraces shall not extend into the required rear yard setback by
more than ten feet. Guardrails around terraces are permitted as welt, provided
that such guardrails shall be limited to 42 inches above the surface of such
terraces;
         (b)   An elevated deck, covered or uncovered, provided that such deck
shall not be enclosed nor shall extend into the required rear yard setback by
more than ten feet;
         (c)   Accessory buildings, detached from the principal building,
subject to dimensional requirements in §
154.056(B);
         (d)   Antennas and satellite dishes;
         (e)   One-story bay windows projecting three feet or less into the
required rear yard setback;
         (f)   Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting four feet or less into
the required rear yard setback;
         (g)   Children’s recreational equipment;
         (h)   Laundry drying lines;
         (i)   Air conditioning equipment; and
         (j)   Off-street parking areas and access drives (see §
154.077(C), for limitations on the location for such areas).
      (4)   Side yards.
         (a)   Terraces, provided that such terraces shall not be located
within two feet of the side lot line. Guardrails around terraces are permitted
as well, provided that such guardrails shall be limited to 42 inches above the
surface of such terraces;
         (b)   Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting into the required side
yard setback for a distance not to exceed 24 inches;
         (c)   Air conditioning equipment located not less than two feet from
the side lot line; and
         (d)   Off-street parking areas and access drives (see §
154.077(C), for limitations on the location for such areas).
   (B)   Side yard setback exception for detached one-family dwellings. Within
the R-2 and R-3 Districts, a reduction in the minimum side yard setback for
detached one-family dwellings may be granted by the Enforcement Officer if the
side yard widths are consistent with the prevailing pattern of the subdivision
in which the lot is located. In determining the prevailing pattern of a
subdivision, the side yards of at least ten of the closest lots shall be
considered or, if there are fewer than ten lots, the prevailing pattern of side
yards on the block frontage shall be considered. In no case shall an exception
be granted which eliminates any of the off-street parking requirements and
which does not meet the following minimum standards:
      (1)   A side yard of not less than four feet in width;
      (2)   A combined width of not less than nine feet for both side yards of
the lot; and
      (3)   A combined width of not less than nine feet for the adjoining side
yards of adjoining lots.
   (C)   Setbacks established by recorded subdivision plat. Where a recorded
subdivision plat establishes a building setback line that is greater than that
required by the applicable district regulations, the recorded subdivision
setback requirement shall be the minimum setback. In no event shall the setback
be less than the minimum established for the zoning district.
   (D)   Front yard setbacks for corner lots of record. Where a lot of record
is located at the intersection of two or more streets, there shall be a front
yard on each street side of the corner lot. However, in situations where the
front face of an existing principal building is oriented to the narrower of the
two front lot lines, the required front yard building setback from the longer
of the two front lot lines may be reduced to a distance of 15 feet, or the
established setback in the applicable recorded subdivision plat, whichever is
greater. This exception shall not apply to reverse corner lots.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.056  ACCESSORY USES, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Permitted accessory uses, buildings, and structures. A permitted
accessory use is any use or structure which complies with the definition of
“Accessory Use” contained in §
154.004 including, but not limited to, the following typical uses:
      (1)   Garages or carports;
      (2)   A structure for storage or a greenhouse, when accessory to a one-
family or two-family dwelling and subject to size limitations (see division (B)
below);
      (3)   Antennas and satellite dishes;
      (4)   Fences, walls, and hedges;
      (5)   Private recreation facilities, including tennis courts;
      (6)   Outdoor swimming pools and hot tubs;
      (7)   Off-street parking areas; and
      (8)   Signs, subject to the provisions of §§
154.090 through
154.098.
   (B)   Dimensional regulations. In addition to other dimensional regulations
established elsewhere in this subchapter, the following dimensional standards
shall apply to accessory uses, buildings, and structures.
      (1)   Garages or carports shall not exceed the height of the dwelling or
24 feet, whichever is less, and shall comply with the required principal
building setbacks, except that a detached garage or carport may be located from
the rear lot line by a distance of not less than five feet, and at least three
feet from the side lot line.
      (2)   Parking structures, attached to the principal building, shall
comply with the setback requirements for said principal building.
      (3)   Accessory structures and uses located in a rear yard shall be set
back at least five feet from the rear lot line and at least three feet from the
side lot lines.
      (4)   Accessory structures and uses shall maintain the same front setback
as is required for the principal structure located on the zoning lot, except
that off-street parking areas, fences, walls, uncovered terraces, and hedges
may be located in required front or side yards, subject to the limitations
contained in §
154.055.
      (5)   A structure for storage or a greenhouse, that is accessory to a
one-family or two-family residential building, shall not exceed 250 square feet
in gross floor area nor exceed 12 feet in height.
      (6)   On one-family detached or attached, and two-family dwelling lots,
accessory structures may be built in the required rear yard, but not less than
five feet from the rear lot line and three feet from the side lot line. At
least 800 square feet of the required rear yard shall remain as private open
space, unoccupied by such accessory structures.
      (7)   Private recreation facilities, including tennis courts and outdoor
swimming pools and hot tubs shall be set back at least five feet from any lot
line and at least 20 feet from any dwelling on an adjacent lot. Such facilities
shall be screened from adjacent residential property with a fence and/or dense
planting (see §
154.058 for fence regulations).
      (8)   An accessory building, that is detached from the principal
building, shall be located behind the rear building line of the principal
building.
      (9)   An attached private garage or carport shall comply with the
required front yard building setback specified in the applicable district
regulations.
      (10)   Accessory structures and uses shall otherwise comply with the
dimensional regulations applicable to the district in which they are located.
   (C)   Other use limitations.
      (1)   No accessory structure shall be constructed and occupied on any lot
prior to the time of the completion of the construction of the principal
structure to which it is accessory.
      (2)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to residential uses, such as
the use of a lot or portion thereof for a vegetable or flower garden and the
keeping of domesticated animals are permitted, but not on a commercial basis or
that creates a nuisance to adjacent or nearby residents.
      (3)   No garage or carport, attached or detached, shall be used for or
converted to habitable space, unless it is demonstrated that the required off-
street parking requirements and adopted building codes will be complied with
(see §§
154.075 through
154.079).
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.057  LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Planting specifications.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   Landscaping required by this chapter shall mean living plants in
a combination of trees, shrubs, and/or ground cover.
         (b)   Unless otherwise stated in this chapter, all size specifications
for plant materials shall be based upon the time of planting. When caliper is
specified for tree planting, the caliper of the tree trunk shall be measured at
12 inches above the ground level.
      (2)   Planting types.
         (a)   Canopy trees. A self-supporting woody, deciduous plant having
not less than a two and one-half inch caliper and reaches a mature height of
not less than 20 feet and a mature spread of not less than 15 feet.
         (b)   Ornamental trees. A self-supporting woody, deciduous plant
having not less than a one and one-half inch caliper and normally attains a
mature height of at least 15 feet and usually has one main stem or trunk and
many branches. Several species may appear to have several stems or trunks.
         (c)   Evergreen trees. A tree having foliage that persists and remains
green throughout the year and having a height of not less than six feet and
maturing to a height of not less than 20 feet.
         (d)   Shrub. A self-supporting woody perennial plant (deciduous or
evergreen) of low to medium height characterized by multiple stems and branches
continuous from its base and having a height of not less than two feet and
normally maturing to a height of not more than ten feet.
         (e)   Ground cover. Plants, other than turf grass, normally reaching
an average maximum height of not more than 24 inches at maturity.
   (B)   Screening between nonresidential and residential zoning districts.
      (1)   In situations where a nonresidential use is established adjacent to
residentially zoned property, the developer of the nonresidential use shall
provide the following screening within the required rear and/or side yard
building setback areas.
         (a)   Within this setback, there shall be a landscaped buffer area not
less than 15 feet in width, planted with one canopy tree for every 30 lineal
feet of common property line or planted with evergreen trees spaced so that
such evergreen trees create a continuous visual screen within five years after
planting. Combination of canopy trees, evergreen trees, ornamental trees, and
shrubs are permissible and encouraged, provided that such landscaping, in the
opinion of the Enforcement Officer, will effectively screen the nonresidential
uses from the view of the abutting residential zoned properties.
         (b)   In addition, there shall be placed at the property line a neat,
clean, and maintained sight-proof fence or wall having a minimum height of six
feet but not more than eight feet. Where a loading area or access drive thereto
is within 50 feet of residentially zoned property, the fence shall be eight
feet in height.
      (2)   In situations where a residential subdivision (more than three
lots) or other multiple dwelling unit development is constructed on a site that
is adjacent to business- or industrially-zoned lot, the developer of the
residential subdivision or development shall provide the following increase in
setbacks and screening.
         (a)   The minimum setback for the principal residential buildings
shall be increased by 15 feet along the common property line separating the
residential and commercial or industrial zoning district. A permanent buffer
strip of a minimum of 15 feet shall be established adjacent to and parallel to
the said common property line(s). This strip shall be indicated on the approved
subdivision plat and/or development plan and annotated with the following
statement: “This strip is reserved for landscape screening. The placement of
buildings or other structures hereon is prohibited.”
         (b)   Within this buffer strip, there shall be a landscaped area
planted with one canopy tree for every 30 lineal feet of common property line
or planted with evergreen trees spaced so that such evergreen trees create a
contiguous visual screen within five years after planting. Combination of
canopy trees, evergreen trees, and shrubs are permissible and encouraged,
provided that such landscaping, in the opinion of the Enforcement Officer, will
effectively screen the nonresidential property from the view of the residential
subdivision or development.
         (c)   In addition, there shall be placed at the property line a neat,
clean, and maintained sight-proof fence or wall having a minimum height of six
feet, but not more than eight feet.
   (C)   Screening of building mechanical or electrical equipment. Major
mechanical and electrical systems should be located within the building
envelope, if possible. In situations where this is not possible, the following
screening standards shall apply to all building mechanical and electrical
equipment located outdoors. Exceptions: developments in the I-1 District and
air conditioning units associated with individual residential dwellings need
not comply with these screening requirements.
      (1)   Ground-mounted equipment. Exterior equipment may be located at
ground level, or depressed below ground level, so that the maximum height does
not exceed eight feet. The equipment shall not be visible between the ground
level and six feet above ground level of any street adjoining the property or
from adjacent properties. Screening may be achieved with a wall that is
consistent with and/or complementary to the exterior material of the principal
building or with dense landscaping. In no case shall ground-mounted building
equipment be located between the principal building and a public right-of-way
or private street.
      (2)   Roof-mounted equipment. All rooftop building service equipment
shall not be visible between the ground level and six feet above ground level
of any street adjoining the property or from adjacent properties. All
mechanical equipment shall be screened by an integral element of the
architectural design of the building or a separate permanently installed screen
which harmonizes with the building in terms of material, color, size, and
shape. Rooftop equipment shall be permitted, without screening, if it is of a
low profile design and in a location on the roof which is not visible between
the ground level and six feet above ground level of any street adjoining the
property or from adjacent properties.
   (D)   Screening of refuse disposal containers.
      (1)   For all nonresidential developments, outside storage of refuse
shall be in suitable, covered, containers and shall be located so that such
containers cannot be seen from adjacent streets or properties. Where such
containers cannot be so located, the containers shall be screened from view
from all four sides with a wood, masonry fence (brick, stone, or textured and
pigmented concrete, with an opaque gate made of metal or wood, but excluding
chain link or wire) having a minimum height of six feet but not more than eight
feet.
      (2)   For all residential developments, outside storage of refuse shall
be in suitable, covered, containers and shall be located so that such
containers cannot be seen from adjacent streets or properties. In multifamily
developments having shared outside trash storage containers, such containers
shall be screened from view from all four sides with a sight proof fence or
wall, consistent with the architectural character of the multifamily dwellings.
Chain-link fences, with opaque slat inserts, shall not be permitted for this
purpose.
      (3)   Exceptions to screening requirements:
         (a)   Refuse containers located adjacent to alleys are exempt from
screening requirements on the alley side; and
         (b)   Refuse containers associated with one-family and two-family
dwellings are exempt from screening requirements.
   (E)   Landscaping of off-street parking areas.
      (1)   Landscaping requirements for parking areas adjacent to streets.
Where a parking lot, having 20 or more parking spaces is adjacent to or is
visible from any public or private street, the entire frontage along said
parking area, excluding entrance drives, shall be landscaped as follows:
         (a)   Two canopy trees and two shrubs shall be planted for every 40
feet of frontage, to be located within a strip of land paralleling the adjacent
street and having a width of not less than ten feet. Trees do not have to be
placed 40 feet on center. Strategic placement and grouping of trees and shrubs
is encouraged. Incorporation of ground cover in the planting scheme is also
encouraged.
         (b)   Other than turf grass or ground cover, landscaping of ground
paralleling the adjacent street shall be located outside of the street right-
of-way. The Enforcement Officer may permit required landscaping within the
street right-of-way if it can be demonstrated that no reasonable alternative
exists and that written authorization is provided by any affected public agency
or utility company that has jurisdiction over the right-of-way or has easement
rights.
         (c)   A maximum of 50% of the required number of trees may consist of
ornamental trees. The Enforcement Officer may authorize an increase in this
percentage where canopy trees may interfere with overhead wires.
         (d)   The required number of trees and shrubs may be reduced by up to
50% if earth sculpting, berms, or decorative screening walls are installed on
private property along the frontage of the adjacent street to a height of not
less than three feet above the grade of the parking area and, in the opinion of
the Enforcement Officer, are designed to effectively screen the parking area
yet avoid erosion, drainage, or maintenance problems.
         (e)   No landscaping, walls, or berm that exceeds 24 inches in height
shall be located within ten feet of any parking lot access drive or otherwise
located so as to interfere with the sight distance visibility of vehicular
traffic or pedestrians.
      (2)   Landscaping requirements for interior areas. A parking lot, having
40 or more parking spaces, shall be landscaped as follows.
         (a)   A minimum of 20 square feet of interior landscaped areas shall
be provided for each parking space. The landscaping shall be in one or more
areas so as to break up the apparent expanse of the parking area and, whenever
feasible, located at the ends of parking rows abutting circulation aisles. In
order to qualify as interior landscaped area, said area shall be located wholly
within or projecting inward from the boundaries of the parking area. The
landscaped strip, as required under division (B) above, shall not qualify as an
interior landscaped area, regardless of its width or depth.
         (b)   Individual interior landscaped areas shall have a minimum area
of 50 square feet and a minimum width of nine feet. One canopy or ornamental
tree shall be planted for every 400 square feet of the total of all interior
landscaped areas. Trees shall be evenly spaced whenever possible.
         (c)   A maximum of 50% of the required number of trees may consist of
ornamental and/or evergreen trees.
      (3)   Protection of landscaping. Landscaped areas shall be protected from
the encroachment of motor vehicles by placing, along the entire perimeter of
the landscaped area, a six-inch concrete curb or other curbing material
approved by the Enforcement Officer.
   (F)   Installation and maintenance of landscaping.
      (1)   Immediately upon planting, all trees shall conform to the American
Standard for Nurserymen, published by the American Association of Nurserymen,
Inc., as revised from time to time.
      (2)   All new landscaped areas shall be installed prior to the occupancy
or use of the building or premises; or if the time of the season or weather
conditions are not conductive to planting, the Enforcement Officer may
authorize a delay for such planting up to six months after occupancy or use of
the buildings or premises. Dead plant materials shall be replaced in a timely
fashion with living plant material, taking into consideration the season of the
year, and shall have at least the same quantity and quality of landscaping as
initially approved.
      (3)   All landscaping and screening shall be maintained in a healthy,
neat, trimmed, clean, and weed-free condition. The ground surface of landscaped
areas shall be covered with either grass and/or other types of pervious ground
cover located beneath and surrounding the trees and shrubs.
      (4)   Any required landscaped area, greater than 150 square feet in area,
shall be provided with an underground irrigation system or be provided with a
potable water supply within 50 feet of said landscaped areas, or equivalent
means.
   (G)   Tree preservation.
      (1)   Significant healthy existing trees, having a diameter of eight
inches or greater, as measured at diameter breast height (DBH) above the
established ground level shall be preserved, except as provided herein.
      (2)   Trees on a proposed development site meeting the above criteria
shall be shown on the site plan. Such trees to be removed shall be indicated on
the site plan. Tree preservation techniques, such as installation of retaining
walls, shall be indicated on the site plan and/or in supplemental detail
drawings.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.058  FENCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Fence height and location.
      (1)   Residential districts.
         (a)   Interior lots. Fences, having a height of not more than six
feet, are permitted in the rear yard. A fence may be three feet in height and
be located in front or side yard. Such fences or walls shall comply with the
requirements of §
154.061.
         (b)   Corner lots. Fences, having a height of not more than six feet,
are permitted in the rear and side yards, provided that a fence, greater than
three feet in height, shall not extend beyond either the established front face
of the principal building on the lot or the principal building on the adjoining
lot, whichever is closest to the street.
         (c)   Reverse corner lots of record. Fences, having a height of not
more than six feet, are permitted between the side of the principal building
and the street right-of-way line, provided that such fences, greater than three
feet in height, shall be located at or behind the established front building
line of the adjoining lot, if said lot developed, or at or behind the minimum
front building setback line of the adjoining lot, if not developed.
         (d)   Through lots. Fences, having a height of not more than six feet,
are permitted in the yard adjacent to the right-of-way that does not serve as
the access to the lot and for all intents and purposes is used as the rear
yard, provided that fences greater than three feet in height shall not extend
beyond the established front building line of a lot fronting onto such right-
of-way and located within the same block, or the minimum front building setback
line of such lot, if not developed.
      (2)   Nonresidential districts.
         (a)   In any nonresidential district, no fence shall exceed eight feet
in height except for recreational courts.
         (b)   In nonresidential districts, fences are permitted in any yard,
with the following limitations.
            1.   Except for the I-1 and PA Districts, fences in the front yard
shall be limited to decorative wood or low masonry walls of architectural
quality (brick, stone, or textured and pigmented concrete). The height of such
fences shall not exceed six feet in height except columns that are integral to
the fence design, may exceed six feet.
            2.   Within the PA District, fences are allowed to extend into the
front yard only as necessary to contain a playground area or for sport activity
areas in parks.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Fence height in dwelling districts may be increased to eight
feet, in accordance with §
154.057(B).
         (b)   Fences having a height of not more than six feet are permitted
in the front yard of a lot within a dwelling district, provided that the lot is
five acres or greater in size and such fences shall be at least 75% open (such
as, post and rail fences).
         (c)   Recreational courts may be bounded by an open (no slats) chain-
link fence up to ten feet in height, provided that such fences be located at
least 20 feet from any abutting residential property. Such fences in any
dwelling district shall be located within the rear yard.
         (d)   Fences (or walls), used as a decorative feature and/or as a
backdrop to an identification sign for a subdivision, apartment, condominium,
or planned development entrances, may exceed the above stated maximum heights,
subject to site plan review and approval (see §§ 154.110 through 154.113),
compliance with §
154.061, and compliance with §
154.093(C).
   (B)   Fence materials.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided for in division (B)(2) below, fence
material shall be that which is designed and intended for use in fence
installations, including decorative masonry (such as, brick, stone, or textured
and pigmented concrete) and decorative wood. Makeshift material such as two
inch by four inch lumber and plywood is not permitted, except for temporary
protective barriers on properties undergoing construction or demolition
activities. All fences shall be maintained in a structurally sound condition
and otherwise in a neat and clean appearance.
      (2)   Barbed or razor wire shall not constitute any part of a fence in
any dwelling district. In all other districts, barbed or razor wire may be
attached to the fence, above six feet.
   (C)   Fences surrounding swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be completely
surrounded by a protective barrier with a minimum of five feet from the ground.
An occupancy permit is required.
   (D)   Fences at street intersections. Fences, at or near street
intersections or access private drives, shall comply with §
154.061.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001; Ord. 942, passed 1-6-2011)
§ 154.059  HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations are permitted as an accessory use to a residential use in
any district subject to the requirements of this section.
   (A)   Restrictions and limitations.
      (1)   Home occupations shall be operated entirely within the principal
residential dwelling and/or accessory buildings and shall not occupy more than
25% of the total floor area including basement or finished attic spaces, with
the use of the dwelling for a home occupation being clearly incidental and
subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its occupants.
      (2)   The appearance of the dwelling shall not be altered in a manner
which would cause the premises to differ from its residential character either
by the use of colors, materials, construction, lighting, or the emission of
sounds, noises, or vibrations, except that one non-illuminated sign not greater
than one square foot in area may be affixed to the dwelling in which the home
occupation is located.
      (3)   Home occupations shall be conducted by only the residents of the
dwelling unit and not more than one nonresident of the dwelling unit.
      (4)   No outdoor storage of materials or equipment used in the home
occupation shall be permitted.
      (5)   No storage or display of materials, goods, supplies, or equipment
related to the operation of a home occupation shall be visible from the outside
of the residence.
      (6)   No equipment shall be utilized that creates a nuisance due to odor,
vibration, or noise.
   (B)   Examples of uses that frequently qualify as home occupations. The
following are typical examples of uses which often can be conducted within the
limits established herein and thereby qualify as home occupations. Uses which
qualify as home occupations are not limited to those named below, nor does this
listing automatically qualify it as a home occupation:
      (1)   Artists, sculptors and authors or composers;
      (2)   Dressmakers, seamstresses, tailors;
      (3)   Home crafts, such as model making, rug weaving, and lapidary work;
      (4)   Ministers, rabbis, priests;
      (5)   Music and dance teachers, provided that instructions shall be
limited to one pupil at a time, except for occasional groups (see division (C)
(1) below);
      (6)   Office facilities for architects, engineers, lawyers, Realtors,
insurance agents, brokers, and members of similar professions;
      (7)   Office facilities for sales representatives or manufacturers’
representatives, when no sales are made or transacted on the premises (other
than by telecommunications);
      (8)   Office facilities for contractors, cleaning services, landscapes,
and other similar enterprises; and
      (9)   Psychologists, counselors, and social workers, provided that the
conduct of services be limited to one client at a time, except for occasional
groups (see §
154.059(C)(1)).
   (C)   Prohibited home occupations. The following uses by their nature have a
tendency, once started, to increase beyond the limits permitted for home
occupations and thereby impair the use and value of a residentially zoned area.
Therefore, the uses specified herein (other than personal) shall not be
permitted as home occupation:
      (1)   Any home occupation that involves periodic group meetings/sessions
more than four times during any consecutive 12-month period;
      (2)   Any home occupation that involves the congregation of two or more
nonresident employees, clients, subcontractors, or other persons engaging in
business activity at a dwelling unit;
      (3)   Dancing schools;
      (4)   Medical or dental offices or clinics, including chiropractors,
veterinarians, podiatrists, and similar professions;
      (5)   Motor vehicle repair or service;
      (6)   Painting of vehicles or large household appliances;
      (7)   Tourist home, including bed and breakfast; and
      (8)   Home occupations which negatively impacts the residential character
of the neighborhood.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.060  TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Temporary uses permitted.
      (1)   Christmas tree sales. Christmas tree sales may be permitted in any
of the business districts for a period not to exceed 60 days. The site shall be
cleared and cleaned within ten days after Christmas day.
      (2)   Contractor offices. Temporary buildings or trailers may be used as
construction offices, field offices, or for storage of materials to be used in
connection with the development of a tract of land, provided that said
temporary structures are removed from said tract within 30 days after
completion of the development. Temporary buildings or trailers must also be
removed from said tract within 30 days after voluntary suspension of work on
the project or development or after revocation of building permits, or on order
by the Enforcement Officer upon a finding that said temporary structure is
deemed hazardous to the public health and welfare.
      (3)   Real estate offices. Temporary real estate sales offices may be
established in a display unit in a multi-lot subdivision or multi-unit
condominium residential development. Such temporary real estate sales offices
shall be established only for the marketing and sale of residential properties
within the development project where the sales office is located.
      (4)   Outdoor amusement activities. The Enforcement Officer is authorized
to approve the operation or conducting of an outdoor amusement activity on a
temporary basis within any zoning district. For the purpose of this division
(A)(4), OUTDOOR AMUSEMENT ACTIVITY includes a circus, carnival, fair, arts and
crafts festival, trade or animal show, concert, rally, parade, athletic
competition and any similar activity not involving the erection of any
permanent structure or facility. The Enforcement Officer may require such
assurance or guarantee of compliance with conditions as is reasonable and
appropriate under the circumstances. This approval is in addition to any
building permit, or other permit or license, required by law for any proposed
activity or facility.
   (B)   Limitations on temporary commercial uses.
      (1)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, temporary outdoor
sales of products or services shall be limited to the tenant or owner/occupant
of commercial property upon which such outdoor sales take place. This shall not
apply to temporary outdoor sales that are associated with food or agricultural
products approved by the Health Department or nonprofit organizations and where
such sales are for charitable purposes only, or to temporary on-site services
that are accomplished within a two-hour time period (such as, windshield
repair/replacement service).
      (2)   Except for sidewalk sales within the B-2 District, no temporary
commercial activity shall take place within a street right-of-way.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.061  VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   On any corner lot nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to
grow in such a manner as to materially obstruct or impede vision between a
height of two and one-half and ten feet above the centerline grades of the
intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street lines of such corner
lots and a line joining points along said street lines 12 feet from the point
of intersection.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.062  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The following performance standards are
established for the purpose of minimizing any negative impacts caused by a land
use on adjacent land uses.
   (B)   Applicability. Any use, whether existing or hereafter established in
the village or within its extraterritorial jurisdiction (see §
154.002) shall comply with the performance standards of this section.
   (C)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Hazardous conditions. Every use shall be so operated as to comply
with the applicable standards and enforcement provisions contained in the most
current Building Code and Fire Prevention Code, as adopted by the village.
      (2)   Vibration. Every use shall be so operated that the maximum ground
vibration generated is not perceptible without instruments at any point on the
lot lines of the property on which the use is located.
      (3)   Noise; measurement; sounds.
         (a)   Noise. The sound pressure level, to be measured as described
below, shall not exceed the following decibels (dB) in the various octave bands
when adjacent to the designated types of use districts.
Octave Band         Sound Level in Decibels (dB)
(cycles per second) All Dwelling Districts All Business Districts
Octave Band         Sound Level in Decibels (dB)
(cycles per second) All Dwelling Districts All Business Districts
37.5 to 75          58                     73
75 to 150           54                     69
150 to 300          50                     65
300 to 600          46                     61
600 to 1,200        40                     55
1,200 to 2,400      33                     48
2,400 to 4,800      26                     41
over 4,800          20                     35
 
         (b)   Method of measurement.
            1.   Measurements are to be made at the property line of sound
source that is adjacent to a dwelling or business property located within a
dwelling or business district.
            2.   The sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter
and associated octave band filter as prescribed by the American National
Standards Institute, Inc.
         (c)   Intermittent sounds. Intermittent sounds that normally would be
objectionable within residential areas (such as, exterior paging system) shall
be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to a residential area.
      (4)   Odor and waste. Processes and equipment employed and goods
processed or sold shall be limited to those which are not objectionable by
reason of odor, dust, smoke, refuse, water-carried waste, pollutants, or other
matter which in any manner creates a nuisance beyond the property line of a
particular use.
      (5)   Glare and heat. Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall
be performed in an enclosure in such a manner as to be imperceptible along any
lot line without instruments.
      (6)   Exterior lighting. Lighting within any property that unnecessarily
illuminates another property and interferes with the use and enjoyment of such
other property is prohibited. In furtherance of this requirement, all lighting
on a lot shall be so arranged or designed using cut-off lenses as necessary to
direct light away adjoining properties or streets. Flood and spot lights shall
be shielded when necessary to prevent glare on adjoining properties and
streets.
   (D)   Enforcement of performance standards.
      (1)   Whenever, in the opinion of the Enforcement Officer, there is a
reasonable probability that any use or occupancy violates these performance
standards, he or she is hereby authorized to employ qualified professionals or
technicians to perform whatever investigations and analyses in order to make a
determination on whether or not a violation exists.
      (2)   (a)   In the event that a violation is found to exist, the violator
shall be liable for the reasonable fee of the professionals and/or technicians
employed to perform such investigations and analyses only if the violator has
been given reasonable notice of the pending investigation and informed of the
violators’ liability for the costs of such investigations and analyses.
         (b)   Such fees may be recovered as a penalty in the same manner as,
and in addition to, the penalties specified in §
154.999.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)  Penalty, see §
154.999
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.075  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these off-street parking and loading requirements to
provide for sufficient accessory use areas for the temporary parking of motor
vehicles and for loading and unloading of transport vehicles associated with
large multifamily dwellings, commercial uses, and industrial uses. The
requirements for off-street parking and loading spaces are intended to reduce
the congestion on the streets due to excessive use of such streets for parking
and/or loading and unloading of motor vehicles. However, certain exceptions
from these requirements are provided for under special circumstances. These
exceptions are provided as a practical matter so as not to unduly limit the
reuse of existing developed properties by strictly imposing off-street parking
space standards. Furthermore, because substantial public parking supply is
available in portions of the B-2 District, certain exceptions from these
requirements are provided for in this district. Even with the exceptions from
the regulations contained in this subchapter, it is not the intent to permit
such exceptions that would result in undue impacts of overflow parking from one
use onto other properties or public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.076  APPLICABILITY.
   For every use, activity, or structure permitted by this chapter, and for all
buildings or structures erected in accordance therewith, there shall be
provided sufficient space for access and off-street standing, parking,
circulation, unloading, and loading of motor vehicles that may be expected to
transport their occupants, whether as patrons, residents, customers, employees,
guests, or otherwise, to an establishment, activity, or place of residence at
any time under normal conditions for any purpose. Except as otherwise provided
for in this subchapter, when a use is expanded or changed, accessory off-street
parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the regulations herein
for the area or capacity of such expansion or change.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.077  DESIGN AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Construction requirements.
      (1)   Surfacing and drainage.
         (a)   Parking areas. All open off-street parking areas and driveways,
except required parking spaces accessory to one-family and two-family
dwellings, shall be graded and paved with a durable dust-free and hard
material, such as bituminous hot mix or Portland cement concrete, or some
comparable specified above. All parking areas and driveways shall be properly
drained so as to avoid surface puddling or any nuisance or damage to adjacent
property.
         (b)   Loading areas. All loading spaces shall be improved with a
compacted select gravel base, not less than seven inches thick, and surfaced
with an all-weather dustless material, such as bituminous hot mix or Portland
cement concrete, suitably designed for intended use.
      (2)   Perimeter curbing. Except for parking areas necessary to one-family
and two-family dwellings, fixed and permanent wheel bumpers or curbs of
concrete or comparable material at least four inches high shall be installed
for each parking stall which is located along the perimeter of any off-street
parking area.
   (B)   Vehicular access and circulation.
      (1)   Access.
         (a)   Access to parking and loading areas. Off-street parking or
loading areas shall be provided with vehicular access via curb-cuts and access
drives from an improved street or alley which will least interfere with
vehicular and pedestrian traffic. Except for off-street parking accessory to
one-family and two-family dwellings, such parking areas shall be designed to
avoid motor vehicles backing into public streets, alleys, or sidewalks.
         (b)   Access to parking and loading spaces. Each off-street parking
and loading space shall be accessible directly from an aisle or driveway. The
only exception to this requirement is off-street parking associated with
residential dwellings (other than apartment dwellings) and parking reserved
exclusively for vehicle sales, leasing, or rental.
      (2)   Parking area delineations. All parking lots shall be striped to
provide a visible indicator for vehicle circulation and parking maneuvers.
Parking spaces and other circulation markings shall be restored, as necessary,
to maintain a clear identification of separate parking stall spaces and other
markings at all times.
      (3)   Traffic control. Vehicular traffic to, from, and within an off-
street parking or loading area shall be controlled by appropriate traffic
control signs, surface markings, and curb islands. All parking areas which
will, in the opinion of the Enforcement Officer, generate a significant volume
of traffic movement shall have its entrances clearly marked and designated as
to direction of traffic flow or other conditions of use of the access driveway
by the use of low-profile signs.
   (C)   Location of parking areas.
      (1)   All required off-street parking shall be provided on the same
zoning lot occupied by the use or building to which it is appurtenant, except
as provided for below.
      (2)   In the event that there exist practical difficulties in satisfying
the requirement for parking spaces and/or if the public safety and convenience
would be adequately served by another location, the Enforcement Officer may
authorize an alternate location, subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   If parking is to be located elsewhere than on the lot which the
principal use is located, then the off-site property to be utilized for parking
shall be in the same possession (either by deed, or by easement, or long-term
lease which has a term equal to or exceeding the projected life or term of
lease of the facility) as the owner of the principal use. In addition, the
owner of property used for off-site parking shall be bound by covenants filed
in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds, requiring such owner,
successors, assigns to maintain the required number of off-street parking
spaces during the existence of such principal use utilizing the property for
parking.
         (b)   Such off-site parking areas shall be located not more than 500
feet from the nearest primary entrance to the principal building being served,
provided the lot, for which off-site parking is to be provided, is located in a
zoning district that permits a parking lot or structure as a principal use. In
addition, such off-site parking areas shall not be located so as to cause
persons to cross an arterial street to get from said parking area to the
principal use which it serves.
   (D)   Parking and loading area setback requirements.
      (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise limited by the provisions of this
chapter, parking areas, circulation aisles, and driveways may be located in a
required front yard, side yard, or rear yard; provided that a minimum of five-
foot setback is maintained between the parking area and the property lines.
         (b)   Exception: where no building setback is required by this
chapter, or where a parking area is to be located adjacent to a similarly zoned
property and cross-access is provided between the two properties, the five-foot
setback requirement shall not apply to the cross-access drive.
      (2)   No loading space shall be closer than 35 feet to any property in a
residential district unless said space is completely enclosed by a building. No
loading space shall be located within any area where parking is prohibited by
this chapter.
      (3)   On lots developed with one-family or two-family dwellings, no motor
vehicle shall be permitted to be parked between the dwelling and any street
unless such vehicle is parked upon a driveway. Said driveway shall conform to
all of the following standards:
         (a)   The driveway shall not be wider than 40% of the width of the lot
on which the driveway is located or 36 feet, whichever is less;
         (b)   The driveway shall not cover more than 40% of the required front
yard; and
         (c)   In all instances, no vehicle shall be parked so as to have any
portion of the vehicle located over a public or private sidewalk or pedestrian
way.
   (E)   RV (recreational vehicle), campers, trailers, boats and commercial
motor vehicle parking.
      (1)   RV’s (recreational vehicle), campers, trailers, boats and
commercial motor vehicles may not be parked in front yards or between the house
and the street, except when loading, unloading, cleaning or servicing.
      (2)   In residential districts, RV’s, trailers, campers, boats and
commercial motor vehicles may be parked in side yards, rear yards and enclosed
garages and buildings subject to the following regulations:
         (a)   RV’s, campers, trailers, boats and commercial motor vehicles
shall not be parked closer than five feet to any property line of the lot and
may not extend past the front of the residential structure;
         (b)   Parked RV’s, trailers, campers, boats and commercial motor
vehicles shall not encroach on or block the view of the roadway right-of-way
from any adjoining property;
         (c)   In no case may RV’s, campers, trailers and boats be parked or
stored on village-owned property or on roadway rights-of-way;
         (d)   All RV’s, campers, trailers, boats and commercial motor vehicles
shall be parked or stored on an asphalt, concrete or other hard surface
material;
         (e)   No RV, camper, trailer, boat or commercial motor vehicle may
exceed 30 feet in length, eight feet in width or 11 feet in height; and
         (f)   RV’s, campers, trailers, boats and commercial motor vehicles may
not be used or occupied for living or business purposes.
   (F)   Dimensional standards.
      (1)   Parking areas. Except for off-street parking associated with one-
family, two-family dwellings, and as otherwise provided in this section, the
minimum dimensional requirements shown in Figure 1 shall apply to all off-
street parking areas.
Figure 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ae2428f6cb0d656faa5b27829a302620bcc5311c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1083.png]
   A:   Angle of parking stalls
   B:   Stall width
   C:   Vehicle projection (stall depth, perpendicular to curb)
   D:   Aisle width
   E:   Curb length per parking stall
   F:   Width of parking bay (curb to curb)
   G:   Width of parking bay (double loaded aisle)
   H:   Width of double loaded parking stalls
     A*
 45°60°90°
             A*
   45°      60°      90°
B  9.0 feet  9.0 feet  9.0 feet
C  19.7 feet 21.0 feet 19.0 feet
D12.5 feet 17.5 feet 22.0 feet
E  12.7 feet 10.5 feet 9.0 feet
F  51.9 feet 59.5 feet 60.0 feet
G  45.6 feet 55.0 feet -
H  33.1 feet 37.5 feet 38.0 feet
Table notes:
*Parallel parking spaces shall be 9 feet by 22 feet adjacent to a 22 feet
two-way aisle or 15 feet one-way aisle.
Aisle widths indicated in the above table are for one-way vehicle flow
except for 90°-angled parking stalls. All two-way aisles shall have a
minimum width of 22 feet.
 
      (2)   Loading areas. The area of loading berths or spaces shall be at
least 12 feet in width and at least 25 feet in length (45 feet for tractor/
trailer loading berths), exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall
have a vertical clearance of at lest 14 feet.
      (3)   Exceptions to dimensional standards.
         (a)   Additional aisle width and turning radii may be required to
accommodate emergency vehicles and equipment, or where the aisle serves as a
principal means of access and circulation within the site, including access to
loading spaces, drive-through facilities, or trash storage facilities.
         (b)   If the desired parking angle is not specified in this section,
the Enforcement Officer may specify other equivalent dimensions associated with
the desired parking angle by interpolating from dimensional standards specified
in this section.
         (c)   The Enforcement Officer may authorize a reduction in the vehicle
projection (stall depth), as specified in this section, where parking stalls
front along the curbed perimeter portion of the parking area (without wheel
stops or bumpers). This reduction shall only be permitted where such a
reduction will not result in an obstruction to pedestrians on adjacent
sidewalks and where there is sufficient clearance between the curb and the
vehicle overhang. The reduction shall comply with the dimensional limitations
contained in Figure 2.
 
Figure 2
Parking Stall Angle Allowable Reduction in Stall Minimum Overhang Clearance
                    Depth
45°                1 feet-6 inches              2 feet-6 inches
60°                1 feet-9 inches              2 feet-9 inches
90°                2 feet-0 inches              3 feet-0 inches
Table notes:
*Stall depth, measured perpendicular to curb (vehicle projection).
** Unobstructed horizontal clearance measured from the front of curb.
 
         (d)   Vehicle stacking lanes (queuing or waiting area for drive-
through facilities) shall be a minimum of 11 feet by 20 feet per required
stacking space.
         (e)   A 90 degree compact car stall dimension of not less than eight
feet by 17 feet may be used for off-street parking that is in excess of the
minimum required parking spaces as set forth in this subchapter. To the extent
possible, such smaller parking spaces shall be located in a single contiguous
area that is clearly marked for use by compact vehicles only. Aisle widths
associated with allowable compact car parking spaces shall be the same as
required in this section.
         (f)   Off-street parking spaces for vehicles, other than personal
passenger vehicles, shall be of a size (exclusive of aisle, drives, and
maneuvering space) sufficient to accommodate the length and width of the
vehicle as well as the opening of vehicle doors for ingress and egress.
   (G)   Landscaping requirements. See §
154.057(E).
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001; Ord. passed 8-1-2019)
§ 154.078  SUPPLEMENTARY OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Determination of required number of spaces.
      (1)   Employees. Employees, when used as a measurement for determining
the number of parking spaces, shall be based on the number of employees that
can be expected to be on the premises during the largest shift. The number of
employees shall be based on the use activity operating at full capacity.
      (2)   Floor area. Except as otherwise described in the minimum off-street
parking and loading spaces (§
154.079) the term “floor area”, as employed in this subchapter, shall include
the sum of the area of horizontal surfaces of all floors of a building,
measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls, less the floor area devoted
to elevators, stairwells, mechanical rooms, restrooms, and areas devoted to
off-street parking or loading.
      (3)   Uses not specifically established on site plan or not listed in
schedule of required parking. If there is any uncertainty with respect to the
amount of parking space required by the provisions of this subchapter as a
result of any indefiniteness as to the proposed use of a building or of land,
the maximum requirement for the general type of use that is involved shall
govern. In the event that a development proposal includes uses not specifically
listed in the schedule of required parking and loading, the Enforcement Officer
shall determine the number of required parking spaces based on the similarity
of such use(s) to other uses contained in §
154.079.
      (4)   Fractional parking spaces. When application of the schedule of
parking requirements as hereinafter provided calls for a certain number of
parking spaces, plus a fraction of a space, then such fraction shall be rounded
up to the nearest whole number to determine the number of spaces required.
   (B)   Handicap parking. Parking spaces for physically handicapped persons
shall comply with the standards set forth in the State Accessability Code.
   (C)   Parking for multiple use buildings. The number of spaces required for
land or buildings used for two or more persons, shall be the sum of the
requirements for the various uses, computed in accordance with this subchapter.
Parking facilities for one use shall not be considered as providing the
required parking facilities for any other use, except as provided for in §
154.079(A)(2).
   (D)   Prohibited off-street parking activities and uses. The following off-
street parking uses are expressly prohibited:
      (1)   Off-street parking of vehicles or vehicular parts or accessories in
violation of the Motor Vehicle Ordinance; and
      (2)   The use of recreational vehicles for living, sleeping, or
housekeeping purposes when parked or stored in a dwelling zoning district.
   (E)   Use of parking spaces. Except as expressly permitted by this chapter,
no off-street parking area shall be utilized for any other purpose.
   (F)   Use of loading spaces. No loading space shall be utilized for any
other purpose nor be used to satisfy any of the required off-street parking
spaces.
   (G)   Lighting.
      (1)   Lighting standards for parking lots, private drives, and other
public activity areas.
         (a)   Applicability. For residential uses, lights shall be installed
in all parking areas containing five or more parking spaces and shall be
illuminated between dusk and dawn. For nonresidential uses, lights shall be
installed in all parking areas containing five or more parking spaces and shall
be illuminated between dusk and dawn whenever said premises are open for
operation. OPENED FOR OPERATION shall be any time that a retail business is
open for the sale of goods or services or a retail, office, or industrial
facility actually has employees working within or upon said premises, other
than guards, watchmen, or home occupations.
         (b)   Illumination standards. Where lighted areas are required, the
following illumination standards (in foot candles) shall apply:
            1.   Minimum initial level at any point on the parking area or
drive:
               a.   Residential use: 0.07;
               b.   Commercial/industrial use: 0.50; and
               c.   Other uses: 0.30.
            2.   Average initial level:
               a.   Residential use: 0.35;
               b.   Commercial/industrial use: 1.00; and
               c.   Other uses: 0.50.
            3.   Maximum initial level, five feet from the base of a light
standard:
               a.   Residential use: 3.00;
               b.   Commercial/industrial use: 8.00; and
               c.   Other uses: 5.00.
         (c)   Height requirements. Except for low level accent lighting, the
lighting source shall not be less than 15 feet or greater than 30 feet above
grade.
      (2)   Excessive illumination. Lighting within any property that
unnecessarily illuminates any other property and substantially interferes with
the use or enjoyment of such other property is prohibited. In furtherance of
this requirement, all lighting on private property shall be so arranged or
designed using cut-off lenses as necessary to direct light away from adjoining
premises and streets. Flood and spotlights shall be shielded when necessary to
prevent glare on adjoining properties or streets and to avoid visual
interference with traffic control devices. Detailed lighting design plans and
calculations shall be provided when deemed necessary by the Enforcement
Officer.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.079  MINIMUM REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING SPACES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Divisions (B) and (C) below contain the required minimum number of
parking and loading spaces for permitted uses, special uses, and uses
authorized under the planned development procedure.
      (2)   (a)   In situations where a use is proposed that the schedule of
parking and loading requirements does not adequately address parking
requirements for such use, then such use shall be considered a special use, if
not already special use.
         (b)   The special use permit for such use shall specify the required
number of off-street parking spaces that satisfies the peak demand for parking
associated with such use.
         (c)   In making its determination, the Plans Commission and Village
Board shall consider information on the parking demand associated with the
proposed use as presented by the applicant and village staff.
   (B)   Schedule of off-street parking space requirements.
Use Minimum Parking Requirement
Use                                     Minimum Parking Requirement
                                        1 space for each 50 square feet devoted
Amusement centers (indoor)              to amusement devises, virtual reality
                                        games, restaurants, and bar areas
                                        1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        enclosed building space devoted to
                                        customer service and administration
Amusement centers (outdoor)             plus 1 space for every 3 persons that
                                        the outdoor facilities are designed to
                                        accommodate when used to the maximum
                                        capacity
Animal boarding facilities              (see Kennels)
Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics 1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        floor area
Appliance stores                        (see Furniture or appliance stores)
Art galleries and studios               1 space for each 500 square feet of
                                        floor area
Auditoriums                             (see Places of public assembly)
                                        1 space for each 400 square feet of
                                        floor area of sales and showroom area;
Automobile and truck sales, rental, and plus 1 space for each 3,000 square feet
leasing                                 of open lot area devoted to sale or
                                        display of motor vehicles; (see also
                                        Repair or service facilities)
                                        1 space for each 200 square feet of
Banks and other financial institutions  floor area; (see also Drive-through
                                        facilities)
Banquet centers and reception halls     (see Places of public assembly)
Barber and beauty shops                 3 spaces for each haircut or styling
                                        station
Bars and taverns                        (see Restaurants, bars, and taverns)
Billiard parlors                        (see Amusement centers, indoor)
Bingo halls                             (see Places of public assembly)
Bowling alleys                          (see Sports and recreation facilities)
Car wash, full-service (as a principal  6 spaces; plus 6 stacking spaces for
use, with or without automated washing  each washing bay
equipment)
Car wash, full-service (as an accessory
use, with or without automated washing  3 stacking spaces for each washing bay
equipment)
                                        4 stacking spaces for each washing bay;
                                        plus 1 parking space per washing bay
Car wash, self-service                  for drying vehicles; plus 2 stacking
                                        spaces for each vacuuming station which
                                        is separated from the stacking lanes to
                                        the washing bays
Churches or synagogues                  (see Places of worship)
                                        1 space for every 3 persons based on
Clubs and lodges                        design occupancy load per the
                                        appropriate design standards
Convalescent and nursing homes          1 space for every 4 patients based on
                                        designed maximum capacity
Convenience stores                      1 space for each 250 square feet
Day care centers                        1 space for every 5 individuals cared
                                        for as authorized by state licensing
Dentists                                (see Offices, dental and medical)
Doctors                                 (see Offices, dental and medical)
Dormitories                             2 spaces for every 3 beds based on the
                                        designed maximum capacity
                                        3 stacking spaces for each customer
                                        service station, including drive-up
                                        service windows, drive-up automated
Drive-through facilities (except others teller machines (ATM), drive-up banking
specified)                              service lanes, but not including drive-
                                        up public telephones; parking
                                        circulation aisles shall not be
                                        utilized to satisfy this requirement
Dwellings, apartments                   2 spaces for each dwelling unit
Dwellings, one-family (including
attached one-family, detached one-      2 spaces for each dwelling unit
family, and patio dwellings)
                                        2 spaces for each dwelling unit, except
                                        that 1.5 spaces may be provided for
                                        each dwelling unit in unified
Dwellings, two-family                   developments containing at least 8 two-
                                        family or attached one-family dwellings
                                        and subject to approval under the
                                        planned development procedure
Fraternities or sororities              1 space for each bed based on the
                                        designed maximum capacity
                                        1 space for each 75 square feet of
                                        parlor or chapel area or 1 space for
Funeral homes or mortuaries             every 5 fixed seats, whichever is
                                        greater, but no less than 20 spaces for
                                        each parlor or chapel
Furniture or appliance stores           1 space for each 400 square feet of
                                        floor area
                                        2 spaces; gasoline stations offering
                                        other retail goods for sale, in
                                        enclosed space accessible by the
                                        customer, shall also comply with the
                                        parking requirements for convenience
                                        stores; gasoline stations providing
Gasoline stations                       vehicle repair or maintenance services
                                        shall also comply with the parking
                                        requirements for repair or service
                                        facilities; gasoline station having
                                        accessory car wash facilities shall
                                        provide vehicle stacking spaces in
                                        accordance with car wash, full service
Grocery stores, greater than 3,500      1 space for each 200 square feet of
square feet of floor area               floor area
Grocery stores, 3,500 square feet of    (see Convenience stores)
floor area or less
Gymnasiums                              (see Sports and recreation facilities
                                        and Places of public assembly)
                                        1.1 spaces for every rental unit; plus
Hotels or motels                        spaces as required herein for
                                        affiliated uses such as restaurants,
                                        meeting rooms, or banquet facilities
Kennels                                 1 space per 400 square feet of floor
                                        area, but not less than 3 spaces
Laundromats, self-service               1 space for every 3 washing and dry-
                                        cleaning machines
                                        1 space for each 5,000 square feet of
                                        floor area or 2 spaces for every 3
                                        employees, whichever is greater; plus 1
Manufacturing, warehousing, and         space for each vehicle customarily used
wholesale uses                          in the operation of the use or stored
                                        on the premises; plus spaces as
                                        required herein for affiliated uses
                                        such as office or retail sales area
Mini-warehousing                        (see Warehousing, self-service storage)
Mortuaries                              (see Funeral homes or mortuaries)
Movie theaters                          (see Places of public assembly)
Nursing homes                           (see Convalescent and nursing homes)
Offices, dental and medical (including  1 space for each 200 square feet of
outpatient medical clinics, surgery     floor area, including the basement, if
centers, MRI centers, chiropractor      used or adaptable to office use
offices, and similar uses)
Offices, other than dental and medical  1 space for each 300 square feet of
offices, or offices associated with     floor area, including the basement, if
banking or other financial institutions used or adaptable to office use
                                        1 space for every 4 fixed seats (one
Places of public assembly (including    seat equals 18 inches of bench length);
auditoriums, banquet halls, gymnasiums  or where no fixed seating is provided,
with spectator seating, meeting rooms,  1 space for each 50 square feet of
reception halls, sports facilities with floor area, exclusive of kitchen,
spectator seating, theaters, and        restrooms, and storage areas; plus
similar uses)                           spaces required herein for affiliated
                                        uses
                                        1 space for every 4 fixed seats in the
Places of worship                       main assembly room (1 seat equals 2
                                        feet of bench length)
                                        1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                        floor area devoted to sales equipment
Plumbing, heating, and air conditioning sales or service area; plus 1 space for
                                        each vehicle customarily used in the
                                        operation of the use or stored on the
                                        premises
                                        4 spaces for each service/repair bay or
Repair or service facilities            station; plus 1 space for each vehicle
                                        customarily used in the operation of
                                        the use or stored on the premises
Residential uses                        (see Dwellings)
                                        1 space for each 30 square feet of
Restaurants, bars, and taverns          floor area, exclusive of kitchen,
                                        restrooms, and storage areas
Restaurants, providing drive-through    6 stacking spaces for each service
service only                            window; plus 2 spaces for each customer
                                        service window
Retail stores, retail specialty shops,  1 space for each 200 square feet of
and retail service establishments not   floor area
elsewhere specified in this section
Schools, business, professional, or     1 space for every 3 students based on
technical schools                       program capacity
Schools, elementary, junior high, and   1 space for every 20 students based on
middle schools (public or private)      building design capacity
Schools, high schools                   1 space for every 3 students based on
                                        building design capacity
Sororities                              (see Fraternities or sororities)
                                        5 spaces for each bowling lane; plus
Sports and recreational facilities -    spaces otherwise required for any
bowling alleys                          additional uses such as restaurants,
                                        bars, and indoor amusement centers
                                        1 space for each 100 square feet of
Sports and recreational facilities -    floor area (not applicable to
gymnasiums                              gymnasiums associated with schools);
                                        plus spaces otherwise required for
                                        spectator seating
Sports and recreational facilities -    1 space for each 100 square feet of
ice and roller skating rinks            skating area; plus spaces otherwise
                                        required for spectator seating
Sports and recreational facilities -    3 spaces for each court; plus spaces
racquet sport courts, including         otherwise required for spectator
handball, racquetball, squash, and      seating
tennis courts
Sports and recreational facilities -    1 space for each 300 square feet of
recreation centers, general purpose     floor area
                                        1 space for each 75 square feet of pool
Sports and recreational facilities -    area, including patio areas; plus
swimming pools                          spaces otherwise required for spectator
                                        seating
Veterinary clinics                      (see Animal hospitals and veterinary
                                        clinics)
Warehousing                             (see Manufacturing, warehousing, and
                                        wholesale uses)
                                        5 spaces for the first 5,000 square
Warehousing, self-service storage       feet of storage area; plus 1 space for
                                        each additional 5,000 square feet of
                                        storage area
Wholesale establishments                (see Manufacturing, warehousing, and
                                        wholesale uses)
 
   (C)   Schedule of off-street loading space requirements.
      (1)   Offices and personal or community service establishments.
         (a)   One loading space for each such use having greater than 6,000
square feet of floor area.
         (b)   Such uses include, but are not limited to, schools,
administrative or professional offices, medical or dental offices, indoor
recreation facilities, and places of public assembly.
      (2)   Apartment dwellings. Any building containing more than 50 dwelling
units shall provide one loading space for every 200 units or fraction thereof.
      (3)   Business, commercial, or industrial uses. Every building containing
over 3,000 square feet of floor area designed or adaptable for retail business
purposes, or manufacturing, warehouse (other than self-service storage), or
wholesale uses shall be provided with loading spaces in accordance with the
following schedule:
 
Floor Area                          Loading Spaces Required
3,001 to 15,000 square feet         1
15,000 to 50,000 square feet        2
50,000 to 100,000 square feet       3
Each additional 100,000 square feet 1
 
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 154.090  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of this subchapter to provide sign regulations
that promotes the following objectives:
   (A)   Effective visual communication without excessive proliferation or size
of signage;
   (B)   Protection of the public from unsafe signs by requiring proper
location, installation, and maintenance, and avoiding undue distractions to
persons driving motor vehicles; and
   (C)   Provision of a quality community image, thereby protecting and
enhancing the economic vitality of the village by ensuring that the village
remains a desirable place to live, visit, and conduct business.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.091  APPLICABILITY.
   Except as otherwise provided for in §
154.037(G)(4)(c), the provisions of this subchapter shall govern the
installation, erection, painting, or display of any outdoor sign or sign which
is designed to be seen by the public from out of doors.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.092  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Also,
unless expressly stated, the following words or terms shall, for purposes of
this subchapter, have the meanings indicated in this section.
   BILLBOARD. See SIGN, OFF-PREMISES ADVERTISING.
   NAMEPLATE. A nonelectrical sign identifying only the name and occupation or
profession of the occupant of the premises on which the sign is located.
   SIGN. Any display, name, identification, description, illustration, device,
building, or building treatment which is visible to the public and which
directs attention to a product, place, activity, person, service, institution,
profession, business, or solicitation.
   SIGN, BANNER. A temporary sign made of cloth, fabric, or other light weight
temporary material with or without a structural frame.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. A sign on which copy is changed manually thereon.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. A temporary on-premises sign used during construction of
new buildings, substantial additions to buildings, or exterior remodeling,
which denotes a project name and/or identifies the architects, engineers,
developers, contractors, and the like. See §
154.004 for the definition of “substantial addition”.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. A sign which is designed and erected solely for the
purpose of traffic or pedestrian direction and placed on the property (except
as otherwise provided for in this subchapter) to which or on which the public
is directed.
   SIGN, FLASHING. A sign which contains an intermittent flashing light source
or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by means of
animation or an externally mounted intermittent light source; any sign in which
any part of the light source varies in intensity and/or hue and flashes or
appears to flash or turn on and off; or a sign in which a message constantly
flashes or turns on and off, or alternates with other copy by means of rotating
or otherwise moving portions of the sip.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING (POLE AND MONUMENT SIGNS). A pole sign, not attached to a
building, and supported wholly by uprights, braces, or posts; or a monument
sign, not attached to a building, whereby the majority or the entirety of the
base of the sign is attached directly to the ground, or attached to a permanent
base not exceeding three feet in height.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. A sign attached to, in any manner, or made part of a marquee.
   SIGN, OBSOLETE. A sign which no longer correctly directs or exhorts any
person, advertises a bona fide business, lessor, owner, product, or activity
conducted or product available on the premises where such sign is displayed,
but not including real estate signs.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES ADVERTISING. An outdoor sign, display, device, figure,
painting, drawing, message, plaque, poster, billboard, or other thing designed,
intended, or used to advertise or inform the traveling public of an
establishment, products, services, entertainment, or other information which is
not sold, produced, or furnished upon the property in which the sign is
located.
   SIGN, OPEN LETTER.
      (1)   A wall sign consisting of individual or connected lettering not
mounted on any type of background other than a building or the surface of an
integral architectural element which is a part of a building.
      (2)   The surface which forms the background for the letters shall not be
illuminated from behind.
   SIGN, PARKING DIRECTION. A sign indicating the entrance or exit to a parking
lot.
   SIGN, PARKING REGULATION. A sign stating the regulations for use of a
parking lot or individual or groups of parking spaces therein.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign not permanently attached or intended to be
permanently attached to the ground or to a building.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign which is attached directly to a wall or similar
architectural element which is an integral part of a building, and which
extends more than 15 inches from the face of the wall.
   SIGN, PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE. An electronic or electrically controlled
public service message sign which conveys only information such as time, date,
temperature, atmospheric conditions, or general news information where
different alternating copy changes are shown on the same lamp bank matrix
without giving the appearance of directional movement.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign pertaining to the sale or lease of real estate.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected on or above a roof, parapet, or roof eave, when
installed in a manner such that the sign or any portion thereof extends beyond
the limits of the visible surface of the roof or wall when viewed from normal
eye level from the adjacent public street right-of-way.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign which is not illuminated and is intended for a
limited period of display, including decoration displays for holidays or civic
purposes.
   SIGN, WALL. A sign which is attached directly to a wall or similar
architectural element which is an integral part of a building, and which
extends not more than 15 inches from the face of the wall.
   SIGN, WINDOW. Any sign painted on, attached to, or displayed in a window so
as to direct attention of persons outside the building to a product or activity
of the institution or business on the premises.
   TEMPORARY PROMOTIONAL DISPLAY. A temporary sign or signs displayed so as to
attract attention to the sale of merchandise or services, or a change in policy
or in the status of a business.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.093  GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, alter,
relocate, or replace the face of any sign within the village without first
obtaining a building permit from the Enforcement Officer, in accordance with
the Village Building Code. This provision shall not apply to signs listed under
§
154.094(B).
   (B)   Determination of sign area.
      (1)   The surface area of a sign shall be computed by including the
entire area within a perimeter of not more than eight straight lines, or a
circle or an ellipse, enclosing the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem, or other display, together with any material, framing,
or color forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed.
      (2)   The posts or other supporting structures associated with a pole
sign shall not be included in computing the sign area. In computing the sign
area for a monument sign, the entire area of the sign shall be considered,
exclusive of its elevated landscape planter box or base structure.
      (3)   For two-sided, multi-sided, or three-dimensional signs, the sign
surface area shall be computed by including the total of all sides designed to
attract attention or communicate information that can be seen at any one time
by a person from one vantage point. Without otherwise limiting the generality
of the foregoing.
         (a)   Except for projecting signs, the sign surface area of a double-
faced, back-to-back sign shall be calculated by using the area of only one side
of such sign, so long as the distance between the backs of such signs does not
exceed three feet. Both sides of a projecting sign shall be counted in
determining size of such signs.
         (b)   The sign surface area of a double-faced sign constructed in the
form of a “V” shall be calculated by using the area of only one side of such
sign (the larger side if there is a size difference), so long as the angle of
the “V” does not exceed 30 degrees.
      (4)   For open letter signs, only two-thirds of the area, computed in
accordance with divisions (B)(1) above, shall be counted as the area of the
sign.
      (5)   Signs area on walls of circular buildings and other buildings with
curved or irregular wall surfaces: the horizontal length of any single wall of
a building that is characterized by multiple curved walls or irregular walls
shall be measured as a straight line extending between both visible ends of the
wall comprising of the multiple curves or irregular wall alignments.
   (C)   Miscellaneous regulations.
      (1)   Building Code requirements. All signs shall comply in every respect
with the Building Code of the village, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   No sign shall be erected, displayed, or maintained so as to
obstruct any fire escape, any required exit way, window, or door opening used
as a means of egress, or to obstruct any other means of egress required by the
Building Code of the village; and
         (b)   No sign shall be erected, displayed, or maintained in a manner
that interferes with any opening required for ventilation under the Building
Code of the village.
      (2)   Projection into right-of-way. No sign shall project beyond a right-
of-way line, except for the following:
         (a)   Wall signs, provided that such signs extend over a public
sidewalk and has a bottom clearance of not less than eight feet;
         (b)   Projecting signs provided that such signs extend over a public
sidewalk; not extend more than three feet into the right-of-way; and has a
bottom clearance of not less than eight feet;
         (c)   Signs mounted on or under a canopy, awning, or marque which is
permitted to project into a right-of-way, in accordance with §
154.055(A)(2)(c), and where the bottom edge of the sign is not less than eight
feet above the sidewalk or pedestrian way; and
         (d)   Banner signs, provided that such signs shall not project into
the right-of-way by more than two feet and have a bottom clearance of not less
than 14 feet. The structure to which the banner signs are attached (such as,
light standard) shall be able to withstand the additional wind load caused by
such sign per the village’s Building Code.
      (3)   Sign illumination. Internal and external illumination of signs
shall concentrate the illumination upon the area of the sign so as to prevent
glare upon the street or adjacent property.
      (4)   Miscellaneous advertising objects prohibited. No goods, wares,
merchandise, or other attention-getting object, other than a sign as defined
herein shall be used as an advertising object. This provision shall not be
construed so as to prohibit the display of motor vehicles for sale or other
outdoor storage and display of merchandise permitted by this chapter.
      (5)   Signs not to constitute traffic hazard.
         (a)   No sign shall be erected at the intersection of any streets in
such a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision; or at any location where,
by reason of the position, shape, or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the
view of, or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal, or device; or
which makes use of the words “stop”, “go”, “look”, “danger”, “one-way”,
“yield”, or any other word, phrase, symbol, or character in such a manner as to
interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic.
         (b)   Sign placement shall be in accordance with the requirements
contained in §
154.061.
      (6)   Electrical hazards. No freestanding sign shall be erected within
eight feet of any line conductors, service drops, or power lines.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.094  ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Prohibited signs. The following types of signs are prohibited in all
zoning districts of the village:
      (1)   Moving signs of which all or any part of the sign moves or which
appears to move by any means, including fluttering or rotating;
      (2)   Flashing signs, except illuminated signs which indicate the time,
temperature, weather, or other similar information shall not be considered
flashing signs, provided that the total area of such sign is not greater than
16 square feet, the vertical dimension of any letter or number is not greater
than 24 inches, and the color or intensity of light is constant except for
periodic changes in the information display, which occur not more frequently
than once every 30 seconds;
      (3)   Signs on public land or public rights-of-way, except for those
erected at the direction or with the permission of a public authority, real
estate open house signs, and signs authorized to project into a right-of-way in
accordance with this subchapter;
      (4)   Portable signs placed on the premises of an individual business or
a multi-tenant center in excess of the time limits for such signs as specified
in §
154.096(F)(5);
      (5)   Signs attached to, painted on, or placed on any vehicle, including
a trailer that is parked in a location so as to serve as a sign. This provision
is not to be construed so as to prohibit the identification of a business or
its principal products on a vehicle operating during the normal course of
business or parked after business hours, provided parking takes place as
inconspicuously as possible and the duration of the parking does not exceed a
period of 16 hours, except on weekends or holidays;
      (6)   Window signs exceeding 25% of surface area of all ground level
windows for each building face;
      (7)   Off-premises advertising signs, except as authorized in §
154.097;
      (8)   Real estate signs, displayed after seven working days following the
removal of the property from the market, or that do not comply with the
provisions of divisions (B)(1) below;
      (9)   Obsolete signs remaining 30 days after they become obsolete;
      (10)   Signs installed, erected, enlarged, or structurally altered in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter;
      (11)   Signs which have become deteriorated or damaged to an extent that
the cost of the reconstruction or restoration of such signs is in excess of 50%
of its replacement value exclusive of foundations; and
      (12)   Other signs not expressly permitted by this subchapter.
   (B)   Permit exceptions. Except as otherwise limited in this subchapter, the
following types of signs are permitted, without a permit, in all of the zoning
districts of the village:
      (1)   Real estate signs:
         (a)   Consisting of temporary signs not exceeding four square feet in
gross area for each 10,000 square feet of lot area or fraction thereof and not
exceeding three feet in height for each 10,000 square feet of lot area or
fraction thereof, provided the height limitations shall not apply to signs
displayed in windows or attached directly to building walls. Height shall be
measured from the ground at the base of the sign to the highest point of the
sign or its support. Such signs shall be displayed only on the premises which
are for sale or lease, with only one such sign permitted for each street
frontage; and such signs shall be removed within seven days following the
removal of the property from the market. In all dwelling districts, real estate
signs shall not be greater than six square feet in area; and
         (b)   Real estate open house signs and open house directional signs
shall be permitted only during open house hours and when the owner or a
representative of the owner is in attendance. Such directional signs may be
located off-premises and within a street right-of-way, subject to the
requirements of §
154.061. Location of such signs in street rights-of-way not under the control
of the village shall be subject to the permission of the applicable authority
(such as, State Department of Transportation). The pursuit of such permission
shall not be the responsibility of the village.
      (2)   Construction signs, provided only one such sign may be erected on
each street frontage for the duration of such construction activities and
provided that no sign shall not exceed 50 square feet in area. Signs for
exterior remodeling in any dwelling district shall not exceed six square feet
in area. Such sign(s) shall be located on the property upon which the
construction activity is taking place;
      (3)   Official public notices and notices posted by a public authority in
accordance with public notice requirements as may be required by law, including
village codes;
      (4)   Governmental signs for the control or direction of traffic and
other public purposes, such as neighborhood watch program signs, historical
markers and plaques, or temporary emergency signs;
      (5)   Non-illuminated signs in connection with political campaigns (such
as, political offices and referenda), civic noncommercial campaigns, and other
noncommercial messages subject to the conditions stated below.
         (a)   Number. The number of signs related to civic noncommercial
messages shall be limited to one per civic noncommercial campaign or other
noncommercial message for each street frontage. There shall be no limitation on
the number of political campaign signs.
         (b)   Height. In any dwelling district, the signs described in this
division (B)(5) shall be limited to ground mounted signs and shall not exceed a
height of four feet. In all other districts such signs shall not exceed a
height of ten feet.
         (c)   Area. The gross area of the signs, described in this division
(B)(5) shall not exceed 16 square feet in area per sign for residentially zoned
areas, and 32 square feet in other such areas and shall be set back a minimum
of 15 feet from all street right-of-way lines.
         (d)   Sign display time limitations. In the case of signs associated
with civic noncommercial campaigns or other noncommercial messages, such signs
may be displayed 30 days prior to and seven days after the event for which they
are intended. There shall be no display time limitations on political campaign
signs.
      (6)   “No parking” or “no trespassing” signs which are no larger than one
square foot in gross sign area;
      (7)   Name plates attached to a structure and not exceeding one square
foot in gross sign area, when used to advertise professional services or home
occupations permitted in the zoning district where the sign is located;
      (8)   Window signs painted, or applied in decal form, within business and
industrial districts only, not exceeding two square foot in gross sign area for
each business located on the ground floor of the premises;
      (9)   Window signs, within business and industrial districts only, not
exceeding 25% of surface area of all ground level windows for each building
face. Window signs shall be limited to the ground floor level;
      (10)   Show window signs, within business and industrial districts only,
in a window display of merchandise, when incorporated and related in content to
such display and not attached to the window, except as permitted in division
(B)(9) above;
      (11)   Single identification signs, within business and industrial
districts only, not exceeding four square feet in gross sign area which are
hung below a canopy or awning attached to a building in any business or
industrial district;
      (12)   Barber poles, within business and industrial districts only, not
exceeding six inches in diameter or more than two feet in height, that are
attached to a building located in any business or industrial district;
      (13)   Flags of any governmental unit of the United States, State of
Illinois, or other noncommercial organization;
      (14)   Gravestones;
      (15)   Temporary residential garage sale signs including, but not limited
to, garage sale, patio sale, yard sale, porch sale, basement sale, or any
similarity thereto, that do not exceed six square feet and located upon
premises where the sale is taking place. These signs shall be removed within 24
hours following the completion of the sale;
      (16)   Signs of less than ten square feet in area indicating the name of
a building, date of construction, monumental citation, commemorative citation,
and similar signs when carved into stone, cast in concrete, or material made of
bronze, aluminum, or other permanent type of fabrication and made an integral
part of the structure;
      (17)   Signs warning of on-site hazards, such as height clearances, and
provided that such signs shall be kept to the minimum size possible while
effectively warning of such hazard;
      (18)   Address numbers; and
      (19)   Special purpose signs identified under §
154.096(D), but not including marquee signs.
   (C)   Subdivision or development identification signs. Up to two permanent
subdivision or development signs (one on each corner of the entry street) not
exceeding 64 square feet in size each, inclusive of any logo, shall be allowed
for any planned development, subdivision, multiple-family (apartment) or
condominium development with ten or more lots or units, or for any commercial
or industrial subdivision, or commercial/industrial planned development with
five or more lots. Where the subdivision or development has access on two or
more streets, or has more than one entrance on one street, identification signs
shall be allowed at each entrance. These signs are subject to permitting
process.
   (D)   Places of worship, public and semi-public facility signs. Places of
worship, hospitals, schools, parks and recreational facilities, libraries,
auditoriums, clubs and lodges, and similar facilities shall be permitted one
freestanding or wall sign not to exceed 24 square feet, exclusive of one
religious symbol without lettering. Such facilities having frontage on two or
more streets, shall be permitted one freestanding or wall sign on each street
frontage. These signs are subject to permitting process.
   (E)   Sign placement. No sign shall be placed in or project over a street
right-of-way line, except as provided for herein, including signs on canopies,
awnings, or marquees that are permitted to project into a right-of-way under
the provisions of §
154.055(A). No portion of a freestanding sign shall be located closer than five
feet to a property line or two feet to a right-of-way line.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001; Ord. 942, passed 1-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.095  DWELLING DISTRICT.
   It shall be unlawful to erect, permit the erection of, display, or permit
the display of any sign in connection with a residential use or in a dwelling
zoning district unless such sign is expressly permitted by this subchapter,
subject to all of the limitations and provisions stated herein.
   (A)   One-family and two-family dwellings. No signs, other than those
permitted under the provisions of §
154.094(B) and (C), as applicable, shall be permitted in any of the one-family
or two-family dwelling districts, or in connection with one-family and two-
family dwellings in other zoning districts.
   (B)   Multiple-family residential uses. The following types of signs,
subject to the limitations prescribed herein, shall be the only signs permitted
in the R-3 District or in connection with multifamily residential developments
in other districts:
      (1)   Signs permitted under the provisions of §
154.094(B) and (C), as applicable;
      (2)   One parking direction sign not exceeding six square feet in gross
sign area and not exceeding a height of three feet, for each driveway serving
ten or more dwelling units;
      (3)   One parking regulation sign not exceeding six square feet in gross
sign area for each ten parking spaces or fraction thereof; and
      (4)   One dormitory, fraternity, or sorority identification sign (non-
illuminated) not exceeding nine square feet in area nor five feet in height
shall be permitted on the premises of such dormitory, fraternity, or sorority.
Such signs shall be limited to a freestanding (monument type) or wall signs
mounted no higher than eight feet.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.096  ALL B, ORI, AND I DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Freestanding signs.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   Subject to the provisions of this section, each building,
regardless of the number of lots upon which it may be located, shall have no
more than one freestanding sign located along the street frontage that serves
as the primary access for the lot(s) on which said building is located.
         (b)   Where there are two or more street frontages, one additional
freestanding sign may be located along the street frontage that serves as the
secondary access for the lot(s) on which said building is located, if that
street frontage is in excess of 200 lineal feet.
         (c)   For the purpose of the above provisions, an aggregation of two
or more structures and/or businesses connected by a wall, fire wall, facade, or
other structured element, except for a sidewalk, shall constitute a single
building.
      (2)   Specific regulations and exceptions.
         (a)   Notwithstanding other limitations in this section, no
freestanding sign shall exceed 200 square feet in area, nor 15 feet in width.
Larger sign sizes may be permitted only under the provisions of §
154.037(G)(4)(c), and divisions (A)(2)(d) and (A)(2)(e) below.
         (b)   Freestanding signs shall be permitted up to 30 square feet in
the B-1 Neighborhood Business District.
         (c)   No freestanding sign shall exceed 30 feet in height, measured
from the crown of the nearest roadway with access to the property.
         (d)   Signs 80 feet in height are permitted only in the area lying
south of a line 660 feet north of the centerline of Southbrook Road and any
Southbrook Road extensions and not within 200 feet of residential property
except the residential subdivision known as Lou’s Meadows Subdivision, First
Addition. Signs in this area may have increased dimensions as follows: sign
area no greater than 450 square feet, and sign width no greater than 30 feet.
         (e)   Signs of a height approved by the Federal Aviation
Administration of no more than 182 feet in height only in the area lying 500
feet north of the centerline of Interstate 72 and not within 200 feet of
residential property. Signs in this area may have increased dimensions as
follows: sign area no greater than 450 square feet, and sign width no greater
than 30 feet.
   (B)   Canopy, projecting, and wall signs.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   Subject to the provisions of this section, each business
establishment shall have no more than one wall, canopy, or projecting sign on
each of any two walls that are exterior walls of the particular business. In
addition to identifying a particular business, such signs may be used for the
name and/or logo of the building or development.
         (b)   In buildings containing multiple tenants, the owner of such
building may assign smaller or greater sign sizes for each tenant, provided
that the sum of the area of each business sign does not exceed the sum of the
allowable sign area for each business.
      (2)   Specific regulations and exceptions.
         (a)   The area of a wall or canopy sign shall not exceed 10% of the
wall area, to which the sign is attached, of the building space occupied by the
particular business. Countable wall area shall include the entire surface of
the wall, including the vertical face of a mansard roof, whether real or
artificial, which extends above the wall of the business on which the sign is
attached. However, the countable area of mansard roofs shall be limited to the
area not greater than six feet above the eave line of the roof. The area of any
one sign shall not exceed 300 square feet.
         (b)   When a building facade is located more than 300 feet from a
street, the size of a wall sign may be increased one square foot for each one
foot in excess of 300 feet that the building facade is located from the street
that the sign faces; provided, however, that the area of such sign shall not
exceed 15% of the wall to which the sign is attached.
         (c)   Businesses in the B-1 Neighborhood Business District shall be
limited to one wall, canopy, or projecting sign oriented to the street
providing principle access to the business. No such sign shall exceed 20 square
feet in size.
         (d)   Canopy or awning signs may be attached to or painted directly on
a canopy or awning, provided such signs shall not extend beyond the bottom edge
of such canopy or awning.
   (C)   Roof signs.
      (1)   Roof signs shall not project more than five feet from the portion
of the roof to which the sign is affixed.
      (2)   Roof signs shall not exceed 5% of the wall area which they most
closely parallel and may be permitted in lieu of, but not in addition to, a
wall, canopy, or projecting sign.
      (3)   Roof signs shall not be permitted in the B-1 Neighborhood Business
district or the ORI Office, Research, and Light Industrial District.
   (D)   Special purpose signs. Signs authorized in this section are not to be
included in calculating the allowable sign area for a particular development.
      (1)   Parking direction signs. Freestanding parking direction signs shall
be permitted for each driveway provided the sign does not exceed six square
feet in gross sign area, the sign height does not exceed three feet, and no
portion of the sign is located closer than 12 feet from a street curb line. If
the sign is located at a private driveway which is for the exclusive use of a
single business or institution, the sign may contain the name or address of
such business or institution. If the driveway is not for the exclusive use of a
single business or institution, the parking directional sign shall be limited
to directional information only and shall not contain any other information
such as the name or address of a business or institution.
      (2)   Directional and traffic control signs. Directional signs other than
parking direction signs shall not exceed four square feet in area or ten feet
in sign height and shall not be located within 50 feet of a public or private
right-of-way.
      (3)   Parking regulation signs. One non-illuminated parking regulation
sign, not exceeding four square feet in gross sign area and not exceeding ten
feet in sign height, shall be permitted for each parking lot. Parking lots with
more than 20 parking spaces shall be permitted one sign for each 20 parking
spaces or fraction thereof.
      (4)   Marquee signs. Marquee signs for the theaters, cinemas, exhibition
centers, and similar public assembly uses shall be permitted only upon issuance
of a special use permit in accordance with §§
154.125 through
154.128.
   (E)   Changeable copy signs. Changeable copy signs shall be permitted in
conjunction with an otherwise permitted sign so long as the combination of the
changeable copy sign and the permitted sign shall not exceed the size
limitation of the permitted sign.
   (F)   Supplementary regulations.
      (1)   Permitted special purpose signs may either be freestanding or a
wall sign affixed to a building or affixed to a wall or fence. When affixed to
a building, such signs shall not project above the lowest elevation of the
roof.
      (2)   (a)   A restaurant with a drive-through facility may have either
one freestanding or one wall menu sign per lane not to exceed 40 square feet in
area.
         (b)   No freestanding menu sign shall exceed eight feet in height or
width or be illuminated in any manner other than from an internal source.
      (3)   (a)   A financial institution with an outdoor automatic teller
facility may have either one freestanding or one wall sign not to exceed 16
square feet in area.
         (b)   No freestanding sign shall exceed eight feet in height or width
or be illuminated in any manner other than from an internal source.
      (4)   One public service message sign shall be permitted when integral to
a freestanding or wall sign. The illuminated message area shall not exceed ten
square feet in area and shall be counted in determining allowable sign area.
      (5)   (a)   Temporary promotional displays attached to building surface
shall be permitted for a maximum of ten consecutive calendar days on not more
than four separate occasions during a calendar year, with a gross sign area
equal to the maximum gross sign area permitted for a wall sign for said use.
         (b)   Such temporary promotional displays may include window signs,
banner signs, and portable signs. With respect to portable signs, the above
time limitations shall be applicable to the development as a whole, whether it
is an individual business enterprise, on its own lot, or a multi-tenant center.
      (6)   Regulations for any signs may be made more or less restrictive in
the conditions of the ordinance governing a particular planned development, in
accordance with planned development procedures contained in §
154.037.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001; Ord. 1008, passed 10-1-2015)
§ 154.097  OFF-PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   Regulations. Off-premises advertising signs shall be subject to the
regulations set forth in the state’s Highway Advertising Control Act of 1971
and the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Differing regulations. To the extent the regulations of this
subchapter differ from the provisions of Highway Advertising Control Act, such
regulations of this subchapter shall apply.
   (C)   Other provisions of this subchapter. Notwithstanding other provisions
of this subchapter which apply to off-premises advertising signs, the following
regulations shall apply to any such off-premises advertising sign erected after
the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   Location of signs. Off-premises advertising signs shall only be
permitted within 660 feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way of Highway
267. No off-premises advertising sign shall be located adjacent to or within
660 feet of any interstate highway interchange. Said distance shall be measured
from the beginning or ending of the pavement widening at the exit from or
entrance to the main traveled way. No off-premises advertising sign shall be
located within 500 feet of a dwelling district, unless it can be proven that
any portion of such sign would not be visible from any property, and any
dwelling unit thereon, located within such zoning districts. This shall not
apply to the subdivision known as Lou’s Meadows, First Addition. Off-premises
advertising signs shall not be permitted north of the intersection of South
Main and Southland Park Drive.
   (E)   Size of signs. The maximum area for any one sign shall be 800 square
feet, with a maximum sign height of 30 feet and a maximum length of 60 feet,
and measured in accordance with §
154.093(B).
   (F)   Height of signs. Except as provided in this section signs, clocks, or
other advertising devices erected upon standards or a separate support shall be
placed so as to be entirely within the property lines of the premises upon
which it is located and no part of the sign or standard shall have a total
height greater than 30 feet above the level of the street upon which the sign
faces, nor closer than 20 feet to adjacent residential property, and the base
of said advertising devices will not be less than eight feet above the ground
unless approved by the Enforcement Officer, nor shall the square footage of the
surface of any sign exceed a number equal to three-fourths of the lineal
frontage feet of the property. Such signs will not be supported by any guy
wires, or other support other than posts. Signs larger than ten square feet,
except IDOT traffic signs, will need to be designed, drawn, and sealed by a
professional engineer.
   (G)   Spacing of signs. No off-premises advertising sign shall be erected
within 500 feet of an existing off-premises sign, whether or not such existing
sign is located within the village limits. (See Figure 3, IDOT regulations from
the State Administrative Code).
Figure 3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ae2428f6cb0d656faa5b27829a302620bcc5311c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1085.png]
   (H)   Permits.
      (1)   The Enforcement Officer shall not issue a permit, as required under
§
154.093(A), without a permit having first been issued by the State Department
of Transportation. The State Department of Transportation requires a commercial
zoning of the property on which the sign will be placed.
      (2)   A one-time permit fee shall be charged, in accordance with the
building permit fee schedule for other signs or similar structures, to assure
compliance with appropriate engineering standards and the electrical
requirements of the National Electrical Code. There shall not be any subsequent
permit or inspection fees for any such sign.
   (I)   Exceptions from regulations. Except as otherwise controlled under the
state’s Outdoor Advertising Control Act of 1971, the following off-premises
advertising signs shall be exempt from the requirements of this section but
shall be subject to the permit requirements of §
154.093(A).
      (1)   Nonprofit organization signs when used in conjunction with joint
civic promotions, such as community entrance/welcome signs, and provided that
such signs shall not be permitted in any dwelling district.
      (2)   Directional signs, associated with institutional uses (such as,
hospitals, colleges, and similar institutions) and places of worship, not
exceeding four square feet in area.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001; Ord. 1028, passed 9-1-2016)
§ 154.098  NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Definition. A NONCONFORMING SIGN is one which was lawfully erected or
affixed prior to the effective date of this chapter or any amendment thereto,
and which no longer is permitted or fails to conform to one or more of the
applicable regulations of this subchapter.
   (B)   Continuance of nonconforming status. Except as provided for herein,
all nonconforming signs may continue to exist, provided, however, that such
signs shall not be enlarged, structurally altered, or altered in any other
manner, other than normal maintenance, unless such sign is made to comply with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Replacement of components and repairs. Replacement of components or
repairs to a nonconforming sign is permitted, except that if such replacement
of components or repairs exceeds 50% or more of its total replacement value,
exclusive of foundations and structural supports, then such sign shall be
removed or made to conform to the applicable provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Discontinuance. If a nonconforming sign does not serve its intended
purpose (such as, identification of a particular business establishment) for a
period of six consecutive months, then such sign shall be removed or made to
conform to the applicable provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.110  DEVELOPMENTS SUBJECT TO SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The requirements of this subchapter shall apply to all developments,
except for the following:
      (1)   Developments subject to the planned development procedure (see §
154.037);
      (2)   Developments subject to special use permit approval (see §§
154.125 through
154.128);
      (3)   Detached single-family and two-family dwellings located on
individual lots, including accessory structures;
      (4)   Multiple-family dwelling developments containing less than ten
dwelling units or less than two buildings;
      (5)   Additions to nonresidential buildings, or new accessory
nonresidential buildings, when the addition or new accessory building is less
than 25% of the existing principal building and the addition or new accessory
building does not exceed 5,000 square feet in gross floor area; no new curb
cuts are required; and when such new construction does not reduce existing
parking or significantly modify existing on-site circulation as determined by
the Enforcement Officer;
      (6)   New business, commercial, or industrial buildings which are less
than 5,000 square feet in total floor area and do not have a vehicular drive-
through facility of any type; and
      (7)   Canopies constructed over existing walkways, loading docks, or pump
islands, where such new construction does not reduce existing parking or
significantly modify existing on-site circulation as determined by the
Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   The above exceptions to site plan review in no way relieves any other
requirements for submission of plans as may be required by village ordinances
or other regulations requiring certain plans.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.111  SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The site plan shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the property owner and, if
different, the person or firm submitting the plan (may be submitted on a
separate sheet);
      (2)   Twenty-four inches by 36 inches in size. The Enforcement Officer
may authorize a different plan scale, so long as the scale is in ten foot
increments and the resulting site plan clearly shows the information required
herein;
      (3)   Out-boundary of the lot, including all dimensions and bearings,
both linear and angular, radii and arcs, necessary for locating the boundaries
of the lot. Also include the lot number and subdivision name, if applicable;
      (4)   The area of the lot in square feet or acres to the nearest tenth of
an acre;
      (5)   Delineation and identification of all easements (existing and
proposed);
      (6)   The zoning district classification of the lot and of adjacent
parcels, where different than the site;
      (7)   Delineation of existing buildings, to be retained, and proposed
buildings. Also indicate the proposed use of the buildings and the distances,
in feet, from the lot lines and right-of-way line(s);
      (8)   Delineation of minimum building setback requirements;
      (9)   A tabulation of the number of multiple-family dwelling units by
number of bedrooms, if applicable;
      (10)   Delineation of off-street parking spaces, including itemization of
the number of spaces required and proposed. Also indicate typical dimensions
for parking stalls, circulation aisle widths, parking bay widths, angle of
stalls, and location and dimensions of handicapped parking stalls;
      (11)   Delineation and dimensions of existing and proposed type of
pavement and curbing, including the location of existing and proposed curb
cuts. Also indicate right-of-way line of streets abutting the site;
      (12)   Grading, storm drainage, and erosion control plans, in accordance
with the requirements of the village, IDOT and any other applicable regulation;
      (13)   The approximate location and size of existing and proposed
sanitary and storm sewers, culverts, water mains, and other underground
utilities;
      (14)   In situations where landscaping and/or screening is required by
this chapter (see §
154.057), provide a landscape plan showing existing and proposed landscaping,
including the name and size of plant material. Also, provide plans and
elevation details of any human-made screening material as may be required by
this chapter (such as, required fencing between residential and nonresidential
uses, and required screening of mechanical equipment and trash disposal
containers);
      (15)   Location, type, dimensions, and size of all signs associated with
the proposed development (see §§
154.090 through
154.098);
      (16)   Provide an exterior lighting plan for all parking and common
pedestrian areas;
      (17)   Topography of the project area with contour intervals of five feet
or less, unless waived by the Plan Commission as clearly unnecessary to review
of the project; and
      (18)   Stormwater runoff and detention.
         (a)   A detention facility and controlled release of stormwater runoff
shall be required for developments subject to site plan requirements.
         (b)   The detention facility shall be designed and calculated on the
basis of the 100-year frequency rainfall (for the proposed development), in
accordance with the Illinois Department of Transportation Drainage Manual. The
plans for such facility shall be sealed by a state professional engineer.
         (c)   The detention facilities required by this division (A)(18) shall
be constructed so that the rate of release of stormwater shall not exceed
either: the stormwater runoff rate from the tract in its existing state; or the
prorated capacity of existing downstream storm sewers or streams.
         (d)   The volume of detention required by this division (A)(18) shall
be that necessary to handle the runoff of a 100-year frequency rate rainfall,
for any and all durations, from the fully developed drainage area tributary to
the detention facility, less that volume discharged during the same duration.
         (e)   The maintenance adoption of any detention facility required by
this division (A)(18) shall be the responsibility of the owner of the real
estate which the facilities is located, and he or she shall do so in compliance
with the plans approved by the Plan Commission prior to construction of the
facility, and in compliance with the ordinances of the village. If the owner
fails to maintain the detention facility, then the village: may institute an
action for injunction relief, to require the owner so to maintain the facility;
or may take the necessary actions to maintain the facility and shall be
authorized to institute any legal proceedings necessary to recover from the
owner the sums of money expended by the village in so maintaining the detention
facility.
         (f)   The Plan Commission shall have the authority to approve a site
plan without a detention facility when presented with the sufficient evidence
that the following conditions are met:
            1.   An out-fall sewer with adequate available capacity to take the
design flow without detention is available or is to be provided; or
            2.   A downstream retention or detention facility designed to
include runoff from the area being developed is available or is to be provided.
   (B)   Additional information, beyond the requirements listed above, may be
requested by the Enforcement Officer or the Plan Commission when such
additional information is determined to be necessary for evaluating the
proposed development.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.112  REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Site plan submission and staff review.
      (1)   Submission by applicant. The applicant shall submit ten copies of
the information required by §
154.111 to the Enforcement Officer, at least 20 days prior to the Plan
Commission meeting date upon which the applicant desires to have the site plan
considered by the Commission.
      (2)   Completeness of submittal. Upon receipt of the site plan and
associated information, the Enforcement Officer shall review the documents to
determine acceptability for submission. If the Enforcement Officer determines
the submittal is complete, then the submittal shall be date stamped.
      (3)   Staff review. After the site plan has been accepted for review, the
Enforcement Officer shall obtain comments on the site plan, or relevant
portions thereof from the Street Superintendent, Utility Superintendent, Fire
Chief, and the Chairperson of the Village Economic Development and Planning
Committee.
         (a)   Staff may recommend changes to the site plan that would improve
the functionality of the proposed development or mitigate any potential adverse
impacts of the proposed development on neighboring properties.
         (b)   The Enforcement Officer shall compile staff comments into a site
plan review report and forward it to the Plan Commission. This report shall
identify any discovered deficiencies with respect to compliance with this
chapter or other applicable regulations.
   (B)   Plan Commission review. In conducting its review, the Plan Commission
shall consider the information provided by the applicant and the staff report
on the site plan, and determine whether or not the proposed development
complies with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Plan Commission action.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall either approve, disapprove, or
conditionally approve the site plan. In approving a site plan, the Commission
may impose conditions and restrictions on said site plan to the extent that
such conditions or restrictions will ensure compliance with the spirit and
intent of this chapter.
      (2)   If the Plan Commission so acts, it shall specify the specific
requirements which must be met before the applicant may be granted final site
plan approval and a building permit.
      (3)   The Plan Commission may delegate to the Enforcement Officer the
authority to approve the site plan when the Enforcement Officer determines that
the prescribed conditions have been met.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.113  CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Minor changes.
      (1)   Minor changes to the approved site plan may be permitted with the
express written consent of the Enforcement Officer. No change, which may be
authorized under this paragraph, shall cause any of the following:
         (a)   Creation of any situation which would not be in conformance with
this chapter, Chapter 153 of this code, or other applicable codes or
regulations;
         (b)   A change in use or the character of the development;
         (c)   An increase in building site coverage over 5%;
         (d)   An increase in the intensity of use (such as, an increase in the
number of dwelling units);
         (e)   A reduction in approved buffer areas and landscaped areas; or
         (f)   A change in traffic circulation, either on- or off-site.
      (2)   The Enforcement Officer may first seek the concurrence of the
Chairperson of the Village EDC prior to rendering a decision on approving a
minor change to the site plan.
   (B)   Site plan amendments. Any changes to the site plan, other than minor
changes authorized by the Enforcement Officer, shall require the submission of
a new site plan. The procedures for review of a new or revised plan shall be
the same as for the initial application.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
SPECIAL USE PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS
§ 154.125  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   Special uses are those types of uses which tend to be problematic because
they: have a tendency to generate significant traffic volumes and/or turning
movements; have operational characteristics that may have a detrimental impact
on adjacent or nearby properties; or have other characteristics which may
impact public health, safety, or welfare; but can be approved if such uses meet
the criteria established herein. Special uses also include public and quasi-
public uses affected with the public interest. In order to ensure that
detrimental impacts are avoided or mitigated to a satisfactory level, special
uses must be reviewed, approved, and issued a special use permit, in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter. Special uses are listed for each zoning
district (see §§
154.025 through
154.039).
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.126  PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Initiation of the special use permit process. The special use permit
process may be initiated by submitting a completed application and supporting
documentation from one or more of the owners of record or owners under contract
of a lot of record (or zoning lot), or their authorized representative, or by
the Plan Commission or Village Board.
   (B)   Application and plan requirements. An application form for a special
use permit shall be filed with the Enforcement Officer. The application form is
available at the Inspection Department. In addition to submitting the completed
application, the applicant shall be required to submit the following
information:
      (1)   Legal owners of the property proposed for the special use permit;
      (2)   Legal description of the property proposed for the special use
permit, when the proposed use involves a substantial addition or new
construction;
      (3)   Common street address of the property proposed for the special use
permit;
      (4)   Site plan in conformance with the requirements of §
154.111, unless waived by the Enforcement Officer;
      (5)   Description of the proposed special use, shown on the site plan and
in narrative form, if such narrative would help in understanding the nature of
the use; and
      (6)   Estimated impact of the special use on the surrounding properties
and adjacent streets, including, but not limited to, average daily and peak
hour traffic generation, existing traffic volumes of adjacent streets, if
available, use of outdoor intercoms, and any other operational characteristics
of the proposed use that may have impacts on other adjacent or nearby
properties.
   (C)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Submission by applicant. The applicant shall submit one copy of the
completed application and ten copies of the other information required by
division (B) above to the Enforcement Officer, at least 20 days prior to the
Plan Commission meeting date upon which the applicant desires to have the
application considered by the Commission.
      (2)   Staff review.
         (a)   Completeness of submittal. Upon receipt of the special use
permit application and associated information, the Enforcement Officer shall
review the documents to determine acceptability for submission. If the
Enforcement Officer determines the submittal is complete, then the submittal
shall be date stamped.
         (b)   Distribution. After formal acceptance of the application, the
Enforcement Officer shall obtain comments from the Street Superintendent,
Utility Superintendent, Fire Chief, Police Chief, and other village staff as
appropriate.
         (c)   Staff review. Staff shall review the proposed special use with
respect to meeting the requirements of this chapter, other applicable village
regulations, and with respect to good site planning, and measures taken to
avoid or mitigate impacts of the proposed use on the surrounding area. The
results of this review shall be reported to the Plan Commission.
      (3)   Plan Commission.
         (a)   Public hearing. The Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing
and review the application and staff report at the next regularly scheduled
Commission meeting which complies with the public notice requirements contained
in §
154.012.
         (b)   Plan Commission recommendation.
            1.   The Plan Commission shall consider the extent to which the
evidence provided demonstrates compliance with the standards contained in §
154.127(A). In the event that the Commission concludes that insufficient
information has been provided to make a determination of compliance with the
standards, it may postpone its recommendation until such time sufficient
information has been provided to render a recommendation to the Board, or it
may recommend denial of the special use permit application. The Plan Commission
shall recommend to the Village Board that the special use permit be approved,
denied, or approved with conditions. Such conditions may include, but are not
limited to, one or more of the following:
               a.   Size, height, and location of proposed buildings and
structures;
               b.   Landscaping and screening;
               c.   Parking and loading requirements;
               d.   Signage;
               e.   Traffic flow and access requirements;
               f.   Exterior lighting;
               g.   Hours of operation;
               h.   Drainage and stormwater control facilities;
               i.   Architectural and engineering features; or
               j.   Periodic review of the permit may be imposed.
            2.   These conditions may be in addition to any regulations
contained in the applicable zoning district or other applicable regulations of
the village, to the extent that they serve to avoid or sufficiently mitigate
any potential adverse impact of special uses.
      (4)   Village Board action.
         (a)   After receipt of the Plan Commission’s recommendation, the
Village Board shall consider the proposed special use permit. The Board may
deny, approve, or approve with conditions, including the adoption of the Plan
Commission’s recommendations on conditions of use or a modified version
thereof. The Village Board may refer the application back to the Plan
Commission for further study before making its final decision.
         (b)   When the Plan Commission recommends denial of a special use
permit application, such special use permit shall not be approved by the
Village Board except by the favorable vote of two-thirds of the Trustees then
holding office.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.127  STANDARDS FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Review standards. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to
clearly establish that the following standards are met:
      (1)   The proposed use complies with the standards of this chapter;
      (2)   The impact of projected vehicular traffic volumes and site access
is not detrimental with regard to the surrounding traffic flow, pedestrian
safety, and accessibility of emergency vehicles and equipment;
      (3)   The proposed use will not cause undue impacts on the provision of
public services such as police and fire protection, schools, and parks;
      (4)   Adequate utility, drainage, and other such necessary facilities
have been or will be provided;
      (5)   The proposed use is compatible with the surrounding area;
      (6)   The proposed use will not adversely impact designated historic
landmarks or districts; and
      (7)   Where a proposed use has the potential for adverse impacts,
sufficient measures have been or will be taken by the applicant that would
negate, or reduce to an acceptable level, such potentially adverse impacts.
Such measures may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
         (a)   Improvements to public streets, such as provision of turning
lanes, deceleration lanes, traffic control islands, traffic control devices
(such as, electronic signals or traffic control signage), or other effective
improvements;
         (b)   Limiting vehicular access so as to avoid conflicting turning
movements to/from the site and access points of adjacent properties, and to
avoid an increase in vehicular traffic in nearby residential areas;
         (c)   Provision of cross-access agreement(s) and paved connections
between the applicant’s property and adjacent property(ies) which would help
mitigate traffic on adjacent streets;
         (d)   Provision of additional screening and landscape buffers, above
and beyond the minimum requirements of this chapter;
         (e)   Strategically locating accessory facilities, such as trash
disposal storage, loading areas, and drive-through facilities, so as to limit
potentially adverse impacts on adjacent properties while maintaining
appropriate access to such facilities and without impeding internal traffic
circulation;
         (f)   Limiting hours of operation of the use or certain operational
activities of the use (such as, deliveries); and
         (g)   Any other site or building design techniques which would further
enhance neighborhood compatibility.
   (B)   Findings of fact. The Plan Commission shall not recommend approval of
a special use permit unless it shall in each specific case, make specific
written findings of fact based directly upon the particular evidence presented
to it supporting the conclusion that the proposed special use: complies with
all applicable provisions of this chapter; at the specific location, will not
adversely affect public health, safety, and welfare; and will not cause
substantial injury to the value of neighboring property.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.128  TERMS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Permit effective date. The permit shall become effective upon approval
by the Village Board, The applicant will be required to file notice of special
use with the County Recorder of Deeds. In the event that an application for a
special use permit is filed in conjunction with a change of zoning, the permit
shall not become effective until the date of enactment of the ordinance
authorizing the zoning change.
   (B)   Site plan approval and issuance of permit. If the Board approves a
special use permit with conditions or restrictions that affect the site plan as
previously submitted, said site plan shall be revised to reflect such
applicable conditions or restrictions and submitted to the Enforcement Officer.
Upon determination that the site plan complies with such conditions or
restriction, the Enforcement Officer shall issue a special use permit.
   (C)   Failure to commence construction or operation. Unless otherwise stated
in the conditions of a particular special use permit, substantial construction
work or operation of the special use (where construction is not involved) shall
commence within one year of the effective date of the permit unless such time
period is extended by the Board. If no extension of time is granted, the permit
shall immediately terminate upon expiration of the one-year period.
   (D)   Revocation of special use permit. Upon finding violation of the terms
of the special use permit, the Board shall have the authority to revoke the
permit after notice to the permittee and/or property owner and affording the
same the opportunity to be heard.
   (E)   Transferability. All special use permits in nonresidential districts
shall be approved for the specific tract or parcel of land, and may not be
transferred to any other location. Once an approved special use is established,
the special use permit may be transferred to a successor land owner or operator
upon delivery to the Enforcement Officer of the written acceptance of the terms
and conditions of the special use permit by such successor. This special use
permit is nontransferable in residential districts.
   (F)   Procedure to amend a special use permit. Except for minor changes to a
site plan, as described in §
154.113(A), any amendment to an existing special use permit shall require the
submission of a new special use permit application in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.140  ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Enforcement Officer, or his or her duly designated and acting
deputy, shall be responsible for interpreting and administering the provisions
of this chapter and shall have primary responsibility for the enforcement of
this chapter by means of the duties specified herein. Without limiting the
generality of the previous sentence, the duties and authority of the
Enforcement Officer shall be as follows:
      (1)   (a)   The Enforcement Officer shall provide the Plan Commission
with review, analysis, reports, and recommendations on: petitions for rezoning
(Zoning Map amendments); proposed text amendments to this chapter; special use
permit applications; and planned developments.
         (b)   As applicable, the Enforcement Officer shall obtain and compile
the comments from other village staff with respect to the above subjects.
      (2)   Determine whether applications for building permits are in
compliance with applicable requirements of this chapter;
      (3)   Furnish to the various department superintendents or other
employees of the village such information as will aid in ensuring the proper
compliance with this chapter and other codes of the village;
      (4)   Administer the site plan review provisions contained in §§
154.110 through
154.113;
      (5)   Administer the special use permit provisions contained in §§
154.125 through
154.128;
      (6)   Provide administrative support to the Board of Appeals. This
includes receiving, filing, and forwarding to the Board of Appeals, all
information constituting the record upon which actions appealed from are taken;
      (7)   Supervise the preparation of updates to the Official Zoning Map;
      (8)   Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, notify in writing
any person responsible for violating any of the provisions of this chapter,
indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the necessary corrective
action;
      (9)   May cause the cessation of any erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance, or use in violation of
this chapter by issuing a stop work or stop use order; and
      (10)   May refer any violation of this chapter to the Village Attorney
for prosecution or other appropriate action when deemed necessary.
   (B)   The Enforcement Officer may adopt such administrative policies as
necessary to the carrying out of such duties.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.141  PLAN COMMISSION.
   The Plan Commission of the village, which has been duly created by the
Village Board, is the Plan Commission referred to in this chapter. Membership,
terms of office, certain powers, and duties are set forth in village
ordinances.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.142  PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Building permit. No building permit shall be issued until the
application for such permit has been determined by the Enforcement Officer to
be in compliance in all respects with the provisions of this chapter or with a
written order from the Board of Appeals in the form of an administrative review
decision on an appeal or variation as provided in §§
154.160 through
154.162. Construction must commence within a one-year period.
   (B)   Certificate of zoning compliance.
      (1)   No building or structure hereafter erected or structurally altered
shall be occupied and used until a certificate of zoning compliance has been
issued by the Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   Certificates of zoning compliance shall be requested coincident
with the request for a certificate of occupancy as required under ordinance.
      (3)   The Enforcement Officer shall cause the premises to be inspected to
determine that the proposed use and any buildings or structures involved comply
in all respects with the provisions of this chapter or with a written order
from the Board of Appeals in the form of an administrative review decision on
an appeal or variation as provided in §§
154.160 through
154.162.
      (4)   Upon determination of compliance, the Enforcement Officer shall
issue a certificate of zoning compliance stating that the building or structure
is in conformance with this chapter.
      (5)   The issuance of a certificate of zoning compliance is required in
addition to the code requirement for a certificate of occupancy, not as a
substitute for same.
      (6)   A record of all certificates of zoning compliance shall be kept on
file in the office of the Enforcement Officer, and copies shall be furnished,
on request, to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the
building or structure affected.
   (C)   Use permit. No change shall be made in the use of a building or land
without a use permit having first been issued by the Enforcement Officer. No
permit shall be issued unless it is in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy. No building or structure shall be occupied
until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.143  FEES.
   Fees pertaining to petitions for zoning amendments, certificates of zoning
compliance, use permits, site plans, variations, and appeals shall be
established by action of the Village Board from time to time. Such fees shall
be paid to the Village Clerk, who shall provide a receipt for such fees paid
and maintain an accounting of same. Said fees may also be paid at the office of
the Enforcement Officer, which shall forward the payment to the Village Clerk.
Until all applicable fees have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on
any action or appeal provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.144  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Construction and use shall comply with plans and permits. All permits
issued on the basis of plans (including site plans approved by the Plan
Commission) and/or permits issued by the Enforcement Officer authorize only the
use, arrangement, and/or construction set forth in such approved plans and/or
permits and no other use, arrangement, or construction.
   (B)   Entry and inspection of land and buildings. Members of the Board, Plan
Commission, the Enforcement Officer, and building inspectors are hereby
empowered in the performance of their duties, to enter upon any property in the
village or within its extraterritorial jurisdiction for the purpose of making
inspections, examinations, and surveys, or to place and maintain thereon
monuments, markers, notices, signs, or placards required to effectuate the
purpose and provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.145  PROCEEDINGS TO PREVENT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   In case any building or structure, including fixtures, is
constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, or maintained, or any building
or structure, including fixtures, or land, is used in violation of this
chapter, the village may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to:
         (a)   Prevent the unlawful construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance, or use;
         (b)   Prevent the occupancy of the building, structure, or land;
         (c)   Prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about
the premises; or
         (d)   Restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
      (2)   Any owner or tenant of real property, within 1,200 feet in any
direction of the property on which the building or structure in question is
located, who shows that his or her property or person will be substantially
affected by the alleged violation may seek action to prevent such violation as
provided for by law (65 ILCS 5/11-13-15). Without limiting the aforementioned
procedure to remedy an alleged violation, such owner or tenant may notify the
Enforcement Officer, in writing, of the alleged violation. Upon receipt of the
notice, the Enforcement Officer shall take whatever action is warranted and
inform the complainant, in writing, what actions have been or will be taken.
   (B)   Procedure upon discovery of violations.
      (1)   If the Enforcement Officer finds that any provision of this chapter
is being violated, the Officer shall send a written notice to the person
responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. Additional written notices may be
sent at the Enforcement Officer’s discretion.
      (2)   The final written notice (and the initial written notice may be the
final notice) shall advise that the Enforcement Officer’s decision or order may
be appealed to the Board of Appeals in accordance with §§
154.160 through
154.162.
      (3)   In cases where delay would threaten the public health, safety, or
welfare, the Enforcement Officer may seek enforcement without prior written
notice by invoking a stop work or stop use order and institute any of the
penalties or actions authorized in §
154.999.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
APPEALS AND VARIATIONS
§ 154.160  BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Establishment and membership. There is hereby established a Board of
Appeals whereby said Board shall consist of the same persons as the Plan
Commission. The officers of the Plan Commission shall hold the same offices on
the Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Board of Appeals shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under this chapter;
      (2)   To hear appeals in the manner prescribed in §
154.161 where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision,
or determination made by the Enforcement Officer in the administration of this
chapter; and
      (3)   To vary or modify in the manner prescribed in §
154.162 the application of any of the provisions of this chapter where there
are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the carrying out the
strict letter of this chapter, so that the spirit of this chapter shall be
observed, public safety and welfare secured and substantial justice done.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   Meetings. Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and
at such other times as the Board may determine.
      (2)   Hearings and rules.
         (a)   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
         (b)   The Board shall set a date for any required hearings and notice
of them shall be given as provided for herein.
         (c)   No hearing shall be conducted without a quorum of the Board
being present. A quorum shall consist of a majority of all the members.
         (d)   At the hearing, parties of interest may appear in person or by
agent or by attorney.
         (e)   All testimony at such hearings shall be given under oath. The
Chairperson, or in his or her absence, his or her designee shall administer the
oaths and may compel the attendance of witnesses.
         (f)   The Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed within the
office of the Board (office of the Village Clerk) and shall be a public record.
   (D)   Required vote. A concurring vote of two-thirds of members of the Board
of Appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the Enforcement Officer, to decide in favor of the applicant
on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter, to effect
any variation in this chapter, or to recommend any variation or modification in
this chapter to the Village Board.
   (E)   Judicial review of decision of Board of Appeals. All final
administrative decisions of the Board of Appeals shall be subject to judicial
review pursuant to the provisions of the Administrative Review Law, and all
amendments and modifications thereof, and the rules adopted thereto.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.161  APPEALS.
   (A)   Authorization. Appeals to the Board of Appeals, concerning the
interpretation or administration of this chapter, may be taken by any aggrieved
person, administrative body, officer, agency, or commission of the village
affected by any decision of the Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Filing appeals.
      (1)   Appeals shall be taken within 45 days of the action complained of.
      (2)   The aggrieved party shall file his or her appeal, specifying the
grounds thereof, with the Enforcement Officer and with the office of the
Village Clerk. The Enforcement Officer shall transmit to the Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
      (3)   The appeal shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A copy of the order, requirement, decision, or determination of
the Enforcement Officer which the applicant believes to be in error;
         (b)   A clear and accurate, written description of the proposed use,
work, or action to which the appeal is involved and a statement justifying the
applicant’s position; and
         (c)   Where necessary, a plot plan, drawn to scale, showing existing
conditions and proposed plans for the area in question.
   (C)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the Enforcement Officer certifies by letter to
the Board of Appeals, after the notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that
by reason of specific facts, stated in the letter, a stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. If certified by the
Enforcement Officer, as above, proceedings shall not be stayed except by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Appeals or by a circuit
court on application and on notice to the Enforcement Officer and on due cause
shown.
   (D)   Hearing and decision on appeals.
      (1)   The Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time and place for
hearing of appeals and shall give notice thereof to the appellant and officer
from whom the appeal is taken.
      (2)   The Board of Appeals may affirm or reverse, wholly or partly, or
modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination as in its opinion
ought to be made in the premises and to that end shall have all the powers of
the Enforcement Officer. The Board shall render a written decision on the
appeal without unreasonable delay after the close of the hearing.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.162  VARIATIONS.
   (A)   Authorizations. The Board of Appeals may authorize variations where
there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in carrying out the
strict letter of this chapter, so that the spirit of this chapter shall be
observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
However, no variations shall be authorized unless the Board of Appeals
determines that the standards set forth in division (D) below have been
complied with.
   (B)   Filing and submission requirements.
      (1)   An application for variation shall be filed at least 20 days prior
to the meeting date in the office of the Enforcement Officer, who shall forward
it to the office of the Village Clerk for review and then to the Board of
Appeals. The application shall contain the following information as well as
such additional information as the Board of Appeals may prescribe by rules
adopted by the Board:
         (a)   The particular requirements of this chapter which prevent the
proposed construction;
         (b)   The unique characteristics of the subject property which prevent
compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
         (c)   The practical difficulty or particular hardship which would
result if the particular requirements of this chapter were applied to the
subject property; and
         (d)   The reduction or modification of the minimum requirements of
this chapter which would be necessary to permit the proposed use or
construction.
      (2)   The burden of proof shall rest with the applicant to clearly
establish that the review considerations and criteria for granting a variation,
as established in divisions (C) and (D) below, are satisfied.
   (C)   Review considerations. In determining whether the evidence presented
supports the findings required by division (D) below, the Board of Appeals
shall consider the extent to which the evidence demonstrates that:
      (1)   The particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical
condition of the property involved would result in a practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship upon or for the owner, lessee, or occupant, as
distinguished from an inconvenience, if the provisions of this chapter were
literally enforced;
      (2)   The request for a variation is not based primarily upon the desire
of the owner, lessee, occupant, or applicant to secure a greater financial
return from the property;
      (3)   The granting of the variation will not be materially detrimental or
injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the
property is located; and
      (4)   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of light
or air to adjacent property, substantially increase the congestion in the
public streets, increase the danger of fire, endanger the public safety, or
substantially diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood.
   (D)   Standards for granting variations. The Board of Appeals shall not
grant a variation unless it shall, in each case, make specific written findings
of fact directly based upon the particular evidence presented to it that
support the following conclusions:
      (1)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations of
the district in which it is located provided, however, that granting of
variations in respect to the classification, regulation, and restriction of the
location of trades and industries and the location of buildings designed for
industrial, business, residential, and other uses shall not be permitted, if
such industrial, business, residential, or other uses are not permitted in the
district in question;
      (2)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances;
      (3)   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality; and
      (4)   The granting the variation desired will not violate the general
spirit and intent of this chapter.
   (E)   Authorized variations. Variations from the regulations of this chapter
shall be granted by the Board of Appeals only when it makes a finding of fact
that the standards contained in this division (E) have been met.
Notwithstanding other variations which may be considered and granted, the
following limits on variations shall apply:
      (1)   To permit a front yard, a side yard or a rear yard less than
required by this chapter, but such variation shall not exceed 25% of the depth
of front yard, or the depth of the rear yard or the width of the side yard, as
required by this chapter; provided, however, that in subdivisions platted prior
to January 16, 1997, and in unplatted areas within the zoning limits of the
village, which areas have been improved with structures prior to said date, a
variation may exceed 25% if the petitioner shows by clear and convincing
evidence that failure to grant a variation greater than 25% will work a
substantial hardship on the petitioner in the use of the subject property. In
making its decision, the Board of Appeals shall consider objections and written
consents received from any adjoining property owners;
      (2)   To permit a building to exceed the height limit by not more than
10% of the height limit established by this chapter;
      (3)   To allow any permitted non-dwelling use in a dwelling district to
exceed the lot coverage imposed by the applicable regulations, but by not more
than 25%;
      (4)   To increase by up to 20% the gross area or height of any sign; and
      (5)   To increase the allowable height of fences and walls located in the
required side or rear yards in dwelling districts.
   (F)   Nonconforming situation as a basis for variation. The existence of any
nonconforming situation anywhere in the village shall not itself be considered
grounds for the issuance of a variation to the regulations applicable to other
property.
   (G)   Conditions and restrictions.
      (1)   In granting a variation, the Board of Appeals may impose such
conditions and restrictions upon the property benefitted by the variation as
may be necessary to reduce or minimize any potentially injurious effect of such
variation upon other property in the neighborhood, and to carry out the general
purpose and intent of this chapter.
      (2)   A variation may be issued for a specified duration as it applies to
the existence of the structure for which the variation was granted.
   (H)   Public hearing and decisions on variation applications.
      (1)   Public hearing. The Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing,
with notice thereof being provided in accordance with §
154.012. This notice shall contain the particular location for which the
variation is requested as well as a brief statement of what the proposed
variation consists of.
      (2)   Decision. The Board of Appeals shall render a written decision,
including findings of fact, on an application for a variation without
unreasonable delay. The findings of fact shall specify the reason or reasons
for making the variation.
      (3)   Period of validity. No variation granted by the Board of Appeals
shall be valid for a period longer than six months from the date on which it
grants the variation, unless within such period:
         (a)   A building permit is obtained and the construction, alteration,
or moving of the structure is commenced; and
         (b)   If a building permit is not required, the construction of the
project for which the variation was required is commenced.
      (4)   Extensions. The Board of Appeals may grant extensions not exceeding
180 days each, upon written application, without notice or hearing.
      (5)   Resubmittal of variation request. In the event that a variation is
denied, no request for the same variation shall be accepted by the village for
a period of one year from the time the Board denied the original request.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS
§ 154.175  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all nonconforming
situations as defined herein. Establishment of any use or development of land
after the effective date of this chapter or amendment thereto, which does not
comply with the regulations contained in this chapter or amendment thereto,
shall be considered a violation of this chapter and not a nonconforming
situation.
   (B)   A nonconforming situation shall not be deemed to have existed on the
effective date of this chapter or amendment thereto, unless:
      (1)   At the time of its creation it was valid;
      (2)   It was in existence on a continuous basis and to its fullest extent
on such date; and
      (3)   If such nonconforming situation is a use, such use had not been
discontinued, as herein defined, on such date.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.176  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCONTINUANCE. The nonuse of the nonconforming use for 12 consecutive
months.
   NONCONFORMING SITUATION. A situation which lawfully existed prior to the
effective date of this chapter or any amendment thereto, and which fails to
conform to one or more of the applicable regulations of this chapter or such
amendment thereto. For purposes of this subchapter, NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS
are divided into the following categories.
      (1)   DIMENSIONAL NONCONFORMITY.
         (a)   A nonconforming situation that involves any of the following:
            1.   The height of a structure, or the relationship between an
existing building or buildings and other buildings or lot lines, which does not
conform to the applicable dimensional regulations (such as, setbacks) contained
in this chapter;
            2.   A lot of record that does not meet the minimum area or
dimensional requirements of the district in which the lot is located;
            3.   Development of property, including buildings and other
improvements thereon, which do not comply with regulations governing intensity
of use, such as density (such as, dwelling units per acre), and maximum
building or site coverage;
            4.   Provision of off-street parking or loading spaces which does
not meet the minimum requirements, or exceptions thereto, as specified in §§
154.075 through
154.079; or
            5.   Any other situation where improvements to land do not comply
with any quantitative or dimensional standard applicable to such improvement.
         (b)   Where such a DIMENSIONAL NONCONFORMITY relates to a building or
structure, the term NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE shall be considered synonymous with
the term DIMENSIONAL NONCONFORMITY.
      (2)   NONCONFORMING USE. A nonconforming situation that occurs when
property is used for a purpose made unlawful by the regulations of this chapter
which govern the use of property, including uses that do not comply with the
performance standards established in §
154.062.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.177  NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Authority to continue use. Any nonconforming use of part or all of a
structure or any nonconforming use of land, not involving a structure or only
involving a structure which is accessory to such use of land, may be continued,
so long as otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Ordinary repair and maintenance.
         (a)   Normal maintenance and incidental repair or replacement,
installation or relocation of nonbearing walls, nonbearing partitions,
fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, may be performed on any structure; provided,
however, that this division (A)(1) shall not be deemed to authorize any
violation of divisions (A)(2) through (A)(5) below, and divisions (B), (C), and
(D) below.
         (b)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring of a structure to a safe condition in accordance
with an order of the Enforcement Officer, and where such restoration will not
be in compliance with §
154.179.
      (2)   Remodeling. Except as provided for in division (F) below, no
structure shall be remodeled unless the use thereof shall thereafter conform to
all provisions of this chapter. For purposes of this section, the term REMODEL
shall mean to reconstruct or relocate exterior walls, bearing walls, or bearing
partitions; or to substantially alter the exterior appearance of a building by
adding or removing architectural elements.
      (3)   Expansion of use. Except as provided for in division (F) below, no
nonconforming use of a lot or building shall be enlarged, expanded, or extended
to occupy a greater area of lot or building than was occupied on the effective
date of this chapter, or amendment thereto, and no additional accessory use,
building, or structure shall be established thereon.
      (4)   Enlargement of building or structure. Except as provided for in
division (F) below, no building or structure that is devoted in whole or in
part to a nonconforming use shall be enlarged or added to in any manner, unless
such building or structure addition and the entire use thereof (both existing
space and the addition) shall thereafter conform to all of the provisions of
this chapter.
      (5)   Moving. No structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use shall be moved, in whole or in part, to any other location on
the same or any other lot, unless the entire structure and use thereof shall
thereafter conform to all of the provisions of this chapter after being so
moved. No nonconforming use of land shall be moved, in whole or in part, to any
other location on the same or any other lot, unless such use shall thereafter
conform to all of the provisions this chapter after being so moved.
      (6)   Compliance with performance standards. Any nonconforming use shall
be brought into conformance with the performance standards established in §
154.062 upon the effective date of this chapter, or any applicable amendment
thereto.
   (B)   Change of use. A nonconforming use shall not be changed to any use
other than a permitted use in the zoning district in which the property is
located. When a nonconforming use has been changed to any permitted use, it
shall not thereafter be changed back to a nonconforming use.
   (C)   Discontinuance of use. When a nonconforming use is discontinued, as
defined herein, such use shall not thereafter be reestablished or resumed, and
any subsequent use or occupancy of such land or building shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Nonconforming accessory uses. No use which is accessory to a principal
nonconforming use shall continue after such principal use has been abandoned,
as defined herein.
   (E)   Status of special uses or uses approved under site plan review.
      (1)   Existing uses which were issued a special use permit and continue
to be classified as special uses under the applicable district regulations of
this chapter, or amendment thereto, shall not be considered a nonconforming
use. Such a use may continue, subject to compliance with the conditions set
forth in the special use permit. The same applies to uses approved with
conditions of use attached under the site plan review procedure, which under
this chapter are classified as a special use.
      (2)   Existing uses which were issued a special use permit or site plan
review approval prior to effective date of this chapter or amendment thereto,
but are no longer permitted as a special use or as a permitted use upon such
effective date, shall be considered a nonconforming use, subject to the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   Uses existing prior to the effective date of this chapter, or
amendment thereto, which were not classified as a special use, but are so
classified upon such effective date, shall be deemed a lawful conforming use.
In the event that such existing use is to be altered (other than maintenance
and remodeling), expanded, intensified, or otherwise changed, then such use
shall be required to obtain a special use permit, pursuant to the procedures
set forth in §§
154.125 through
154.128.
   (F)   Exceptions. Any structure devoted to a nonconforming dwelling use
(such as, a dwelling located in a non-dwelling district where such uses are not
permitted), may be remodeled, extended, expanded, and enlarged; provided that
after any such remodeling, extension, expansion, or enlargement, such structure
shall not be used to accommodate a greater number of dwelling units than such
structure accommodated prior to any such work, and provided that such work does
not create any dimensional nonconformities, except as may be authorized under §
154.178(C). This paragraph shall not be deemed to authorize any violation of
divisions (A)(5), (A)(6), (B), (C), (D), and (E) above.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.178  DIMENSIONAL NONCONFORMITIES.
   Any existing dimensional nonconformity may be continued, so long as
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Nonconforming lots of record. Lots of record, established prior to the
effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, that have any
dimensional nonconformities, may be used for purposes allowable by this
chapter, subject to the following limitations.
      (1)   Such lot, when located in a dwelling district, shall comply with
the prevailing patterns requirement specified under §
154.053; shall only be used for open space or a detached one-family dwelling
and associated accessory uses or structures; and any buildings placed thereon
shall meet the required setbacks of the applicable district regulations,
subject to setback exceptions established under §
154.055.
      (2)   Such lot, when located in any non-dwelling district, shall not be
less than 5,000 square feet nor less than 40 feet in width; shall only be used
for open space or an office building; and any buildings placed thereon shall
meet the required setbacks of the applicable district regulations, subject to
setback exceptions established under §
154.055.
      (3)   In any event, a nonconforming lot of record shall not be used for
the development of a freestanding principal structure, unless:
         (a)   Such lot was owned separately and individually from adjoining
tracts of land at a time when the creation of a lot of such size and width at
such location would not have been prohibited by the zoning ordinance adopted by
the village; and
         (b)   Has remained in separate and individual ownership from adjoining
tracts of land continually during the entire time that creation of such lot has
been prohibited by the applicable zoning ordinance.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the combination of a
nonconforming lot of record, or portions thereof with another adjoining lot, or
lots, so as to create zoning lots, which comply with the requirements of this
chapter. Such consolidations may be accomplished under the subdivision
procedures.
   (B)   Nonconforming structures.
      (1)   Nonconforming structures associated with conforming uses. Any
nonconforming structure, which is associated with a conforming use, may remain
as a nonconforming structure, subject to the following provisions.
         (a)   Enlargement, repair, alterations. Any such structure may be
enlarged, maintained, repaired, or remodeled; provided, however, that no such
enlargement, maintenance, repair, or remodeling shall either create any
additional nonconformity or increase the degree of existing nonconformity of
all or any part of such structure, except as may be permitted under division
(C) below.
         (b)   Damage or substandard conditions. Any such structure shall be
subject to the provisions of §
154.179.
         (c)   Moving. No such structure shall be moved, in whole or in part,
to any other location on the same or any other lot unless the entire structure
shall thereafter conform to the provisions of this chapter after being moved.
      (2)   Dimensional nonconformity associated with nonconforming uses. Any
dimensional nonconformity associated with a nonconforming use, may remain
nonconforming, subject to the regulations contained in §§
154.177 and
154.179.
   (C)   Exceptions to nonconforming dwellings. A one-family or two-family
dwelling, which lawfully existed prior to the effective date of this chapter,
or amendment thereto, and which fails to comply with the dimensional
requirements of this chapter, may be expanded and such expansion may encroach
upon required building setbacks; provided, however, that such addition shall
only be permitted to extend to the horizontal or vertical plane of the
building’s exterior wall or the building’s height which is in nonconformance
with a required setback or building height limitation. In other words, the
addition shall not create a dimensional nonconformity that is greater than the
existing dimensional nonconformity.
   (D)   Other dimensional nonconformities. Any other dimensional
nonconformities may remain nonconforming, so long as any modification to a
building site or the structures thereon, as may be permitted by this
subchapter, does not create any increase in the degree of such other
dimensional nonconformity and no reduction in required off-street parking shall
be permitted, except as may be provided for under §
154.079(A).
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.179  DAMAGE OR SUBSTANDARD CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to prohibit the restoration
of any structure and its use where such structure has been damaged, by any
means, to an extent less than 50% of its replacement value (excluding the value
of the land, the cost of preparation of land, and the value of any foundation
associated with such structure) at the time of damage, as determined by the
Enforcement Officer; provided, however, that the restoration of such structure
and its use in no way increases any former nonconformity, and provided that
restoration of such structure is begun within six months of such damage and
diligently prosecuted to completion within one year following such damage.
   (B)   Whenever such structure has been damaged, by any means, to an extent
of more than 50% of its replacement value (excluding the value of the land, the
cost of preparation of land, and the value of any foundation associated with
such structure) at the time of damage, as determined by the Enforcement
Officer, the structure and use thereof shall not be restored except in full
conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
   (C)   When a structure is determined by the Enforcement Officer, to be in
violation of the Building Code or any applicable health or safety code, and the
cost of placing the structure in condition to satisfy the standards under such
codes exceeds 50% of the reconstruction cost of the entire structure, as
determined by the Enforcement Officer, such nonconforming structure shall not
be restored for the purpose of continuing a nonconforming use.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
AMENDMENTS
§ 154.190  TYPES OF AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this chapter shall be classified as follows.
   (A)   Text amendments. Amendments to the written provisions contained in
this chapter shall be referred to as “text amendments”.
   (B)   Map amendments. Amendments to the designation of and/or location of
district boundaries illustrated on the Official Zoning Map shall be referred to
as “map amendments” (also referred to as “rezoning”).
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.191  PETITION AND SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Petition. Petition forms for text or map amendments are available from
the Enforcement Officer. Completed petitions shall be submitted to the
Department or the Village Clerk.
      (1)   Text amendments. A petition for a text amendment may be filed by
any person.
      (2)   Map amendments (rezoning). A petition for a map amendment may be
filed by the Village Board, Plan Commission, Board of Appeals, or any person
with financial, contractual, or proprietary interest in the property to be
included in the area of the proposed map amendment.
   (B)   Limitations on filing a petition.
      (1)   A petition for amendment to this chapter shall not be accepted if
the petition is for a map amendment involving any property which has been the
subject of a previous petition which was approved or denied within one year of
the new petition, unless it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Enforcement
Officer that substantial new evidence, not available during the review of the
original petition, will be presented.
      (2)   A petition for a map amendment filed by the Village Board, Plan
Commission, or Board of Appeals may be accepted at any time regardless of the
time limitations stated above.
   (C)   Submission requirements.
      (1)   Text amendments. A petition for text amendments to this chapter
shall set forth the new text to be added and existing text to be deleted.
      (2)   Map amendments (rezoning). A petition for a map amendment, which is
initiated by a private party, shall include:
         (a)   A legal description of the property;
         (b)   A scaled map of the property, clearly showing the boundaries of
the property; its current and proposed zoning district classification; and the
current zoning classification of adjacent property;
         (c)   The name, address, and telephone number of the petitioner(s);
         (d)   The petitioner’s interest in the property, and if the petitioner
is not the owner, the name, address, and telephone number of the owner(s);
         (e)   The date of filing with the Enforcement Officer; and
         (f)   Signature(s) of the petitioner(s) and the owner(s) certifying
the accuracy of the required information.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.192  PETITION REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Staff review and report.
      (1)   Staff review. Before any final action may be taken by the Plan
Commission or Village Board on a petition for amendment, including a petition
originating with the Plan Commission or other board of the village, the
Enforcement Officer shall coordinate an analysis of the petition, including
soliciting the input from other village departments as may be appropriate.
      (2)   Staff review report. The review of a petition for amendment shall
be completed within 60 days of filing a petition. The results of this review
shall be compiled by the Enforcement Officer and filed with the Plan
Commission.
   (B)   Public hearing and Plan Commission recommendation.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing, after notice
thereof has been given in accordance with §
154.012, and report to the Village Board its recommendation on the petition,
unless it is withdrawn by the petitioner.
      (2)   The Plan Commission may recommend that a petition for a map
amendment be approved for a part of the property described in the petition.
      (3)   The Plan Commission may recommend a zoning district classification
other than the classification requested in the map amendment petition, provided
that the classification is for a similar use type and could accomplish the
objectives of the original petition. The district classification of the same
use type, as referred to in this paragraph, shall include the PD Planned
Development Districts when the petitioner presents plans and supporting
documentation required by §
154.037, in accordance with the provisions of said §
154.037.
   (C)   Village Board action.
      (1)   Before making its final decision, the Village Board may refer the
petition back to the Plan Commission for additional study. In this event, no
additional public hearing is required.
      (2)   In case of a written protest against such change, signed and
acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by
the owners of 20% of the adjacent property owners immediately adjoining or
across the alley or rear line therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of the
frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with
the Village Clerk, such amendment shall not be passed except by the favorable
vote of three-quarters of the Trustees then holding office. In such cases, a
copy of the written protest shall be served by the protester or protesters on
the petitioner for the proposed amendment and a copy upon the petitioner’s
attorney, by certified mail at the address of such petitioner and attorney
shown in the application for the proposed amendment.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.193  WITHDRAWAL OF PETITION.
   Any petition for amendment may be withdrawn upon receipt, by the Enforcement
Officer or Village Clerk, of written notice from the petitioner at any point in
the review process but prior to the final action on the petition by the Village
Board. Such withdrawal of a petition shall not entitle the petitioner to a
refund of any required fees, nor shall any fees paid be credited to a future
petition for amendment.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
§ 154.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions of this chapter or
a failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violations of any
conditions established in connection with an approved site plan, the grants of
variations, or special use permits, shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty of not less than $25 nor more than $100.
   (B)   Each day that any violation continues to exist shall be considered a
separate offense.
   (C)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action.
(Ord. 834, passed 2-1-2001)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cite Code Section
ILCS Cite                      Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                 10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                 10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                 10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                 10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                 10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                 10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                    10.04
5 ILCS 120/1                   30.094
5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq.       10.02
5 ILCS 315/3                   30.090
10 ILCS 5/1-3                  30.090
10 ILCS 5/9-1.4                30.090
10 ILCS 5/9-3                  30.090
35 ILCS 120                    111.01
                               111.17,
35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.          111.19,
                               111.23
35 ILCS 145/2                  110.06,
                               111.16
35 ILCS 200                    33.032
35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.          33.010,
                               33.013
50 ILCS 45                     33.032
50 ILCS 705                    32.16
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.          32.17
55 ILCS 5/5-1227               70.01
65 ILCS 5                      10.02,
                               53.088
65 ILCS 5/1 et seq.            30.001
65 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.        153.073
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                152.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1              10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-4                111.01—
                               111.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1              10.17
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10            30.020
65 ILCS 5/8-3-14               111.17
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1               111.02
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2               33.013
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5               111.03
65 ILCS 5/8-11-7               111.01
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12             152.01
65 ILCS 5/11-13-15             154.145
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2              152.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8              152.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2              152.01
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et seq.    33.060
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-4.2          33.073,
                               33.074
65 ILCS 6/1-2-1                10.99
70 ILCS 1205/3-9               70.01
220 ILCS 5/9-221               33.010
220 ILCS 5/9-222               33.020
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1             33.030
220 ILCS 5/2-202               33.013
225 ILCS 225                   54.02
225 ILCS 320 1/1 et seq.       53.005
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.          110.06
415 ILCS 5                     152.06
425 ILCS 35/1                  91.17
605 ILCS 120/1 et seq.         70.35
625 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.       71.02
625 ILCS 5/1-102               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-104.2             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-105               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-106               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-107               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-108               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-111.8             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-112               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-113               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-116               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-117.7             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-120               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-120.7             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-125               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-126               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-130               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-131               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-132               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-135               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-136               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-137               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-138               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-139.1             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140.10            70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140.16            70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-141               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-145.001           70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-146               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-147               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.2             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.3             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.3a-5          70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.6             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-153               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-154               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-155               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-156               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-157               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-157.5             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-158               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-159.2             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162.3             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162.5             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-163               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-166               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-166.1             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-167               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-167.5             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-168               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-169               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171.6             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171.8             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-172               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-174               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-176               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-177               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-178               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-179               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-181               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-182               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-187               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-187.1             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-188               10.02,
                               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-193               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-194               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-195               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-196               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-197               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-199               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-200               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-201               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-203               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-205               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-205.1             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-207               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-208               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-209               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-210.01            70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-211               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-211.01            70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-212               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-214               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-214.8             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-217               70.01
625 ILCS 5/3-101(d)            70.01
625 ILCS 5/3-609               72.17
625 ILCS 5/3-616               72.17
625 ILCS 5/7-100 et seq.       71.02,
                               71.03
625 ILCS 5/11-203              70.15
                               70.01,
625 ILCS 5/11-301              72.17,
                               72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-302              70.41
625 ILCS 5/11-305              70.30
625 ILCS 5/11-306              70.31
625 ILCS 5/11-307              70.32
625 ILCS 5/11-308              70.33
625 ILCS 5/11-309              70.34
625 ILCS 5/11-310              70.35
625 ILCS 5/11-311              70.36
625 ILCS 5/11-312              70.37
625 ILCS 5/11-313              70.38
625 ILCS 5/11-501—5/11-502   71.02
625 ILCS 5/11-1204             70.41
625 ILCS 5/11-1301             72.16
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1           72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2           72.17,
                               72.45
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(a)–(a)(272.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(b)        72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(c)        72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(c-1)      72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(d)        72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(e)        72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(f)        72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(g)        72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1302             72.45
625 ILCS 5/11-1303             72.15,
                               72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1304             72.01,
                               72.16
625 ILCS 5/11-1305             72.46
625 ILCS 5/11-1401             72.02
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1           71.02,
                               71.06
625 ILCS 5/12-201              71.02
625 ILCS 5/12-205              70.16
625 ILCS 5/12-206              70.17
625 ILCS 5/12-215              70.16
625 ILCS 5/12-215(b)(12)       72.16
625 ILCS 5/12-709              71.02
625 ILCS 5/12-801              70.01
625 ILCS 5/12-802(a)           70.01
625 ILCS 5/12-803              70.01
625 ILCS 5/12-805              70.01
625 ILCS 40                    70.01
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.         131.01
720 ILCS 550/3                 131.01
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.       131.01
720 ILCS 570/102               131.01
765 ILCS 205/1                 153.006
765 ILCS 205/2                 152.08
                               
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        7-18-1968   33.001
-        12-5-1968   33.001
-        5-21-1970   34.01
-        9-2-1971    33.001
-        9-21-1972   32.16
-        1-4-1973    30.050
-        3-1-1973    33.001
-        1-16-1975   53.002
-        11-4-2004   31.01
-        12-4-2008   51.01
-        4-12-2012   32.01
5/2014   5-1-2014    32.34
-        6-5-2014    31.02
-        2-5-2015    34.03
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
12       - -         130.02,
                     130.99
235      - -         150.02
427      - -         Ch. 74 Sch. I
19       1-10-1912   90.05,
                     90.99
67       6-4-1924    90.04,
                     90.99
83       6-1-1927    Ch. 75 Sch. II
112      11-6-1935   110.02,
                     110.99
138      8-18-1941   151.06,
                     151.99
139      10-1-1941   33.001
149      8-11-1943   92.02,
                     92.99
                     151.45—
166      8-29-1946   151.51,
                     151.99
190      9-6-1950    32.30,
                     32.99
196      1-3-1951    32.30
203      4-2-1952    Ch. 75 Sch. II
207      9-3-1952    Ch. 75 Sch. II
221      8-6-1953    53.001,
                     53.999
224      3-18-1954   Ch. 75 Sch. II
227      5-6-1954    Ch. 75 Sch. II
234      4-7-1955    90.03,
                     90.99
244      11-17-1955  Ch. 75 Sch. II
246      7-5-1956    Ch. 74 Sch. I
247      7-5-1956    90.02
248      7-5-1956    Ch. 75 Sch. II
250      9-20-1956   Ch. 74 Sch. I
251      10-4-1956   Ch. 75 Sch. III
252      2-7-1957    Ch. 74 Sch. I
261      8-22-1957   Ch. 74 Sch. I
267      6-19-1958   30.001
278      10-1-1959   110.03,
                     110.99
281      6-30-1960   110.04,
                     110.99
                     91.01,
293      10-5-1961   91.02,
                     91.99
                     Ch. 74 Sch. I,
295A     2-8-1962    Ch. 75 Sch. I,
                     Ch. 75 Sch. III
298A     7-5-1962    110.05,
                     110.99
301      9-20-1962   91.03,
                     91.04
330      8-19-1965   150.03,
                     150.99
331      8-19-1965   110.01,
                     110.99
333      10-7-1965   Ch. 75 Sch. III,
                     Ch. 75 Sch. IV
341      8-18-1966   50.01
344      9-1-1966    Ch. 74 Sch. I
346      9-1-1966    Ch. 75 Sch. II
367      8-1-1968    Ch. 74 Sch. I
373      7-31-1969   111.03
374      7-31-1969   111.02
380      3-5-1970    Ch. 74 Sch. I
381      3-19-1970   Ch. 74 Sch. I
385      8-6-1970    Ch. 75 Sch. II
394      5-6-1971    32.31
                     151.20—
401      10-21-1971  151.33,
                     151.99
403      10-21-1971  30.038
404      11-4-1971   53.003
400      1-6-1972    Ch. 75 Sch. II
420      2-15-1973   Ch. 75 Sch. IV
429      5-17-1973   Ch. 75 Sch. II
443      4- -1974    151.28,
                     151.29
446      8-1-1974    50.02
448      10-3-1974   90.01,
                     90.99
453      2-6-1975    Ch. 74 Sch. II
454      2-6-1975    Ch. 74 Sch. I
455      2-6-1975    Ch. 75 Sch. I
458      5-1-1975    Ch. 75 Sch. V
462      7-3-1975    Ch. 74 Sch. I
463      7-3-1975    151.05,
                     151.99
475      9-2-1976    Ch. 74 Sch. I
513      7-6-1978    Ch. 75 Sch. VI
518      10-5-1978   92.01,
                     92.99
522      12-21-1978  111.02
523      12-21-1978  111.03
526      1-18-1979   Ch. 75 Sch. VI
547      8-7-1980    151.53
550      9-4-1980    51.02,
                     51.99
551      10-2-1980   111.03
552      10-2-1980   111.02
557      1-22-1981   Ch. 75 Sch. II
559      5-21-1981   34.02
560      6-4-1981    Ch. 75 Sch. II
561      6-4-1981    Ch. 75 Sch. IV
567      10-15-1981  130.01,
                     130.99
570      12-17-1981  Ch. 75 Sch. II
571      1-7-1982    111.01
573      1-21-1982   33.002
574      3-4-1982    Ch. 75 Sch. II
582      2-3-1983    Ch. 74 Sch. I
585      4-7-1983    Ch. 74 Sch. I
587      6-2-1983    30.020
                     112.01,
                     112.02,
                     112.15,
                     112.17,
                     112.18—
591      8-4-1983    112.32,
                     112.45—
                     112.48,
                     112.50,
                     112.51,
                     112.99
593      10-20-1983  Ch. 74 Sch. I
606      8-2-1984    Ch. 74 Sch. I
                     112.16,
                     112.18,
616      4-18-1985   112.33,
                     112.52,
                     112.99
617      5-16-1985   112.49
619      6-20-1985   151.04,
                     151.99
626      3-6-1986    Ch. 75 Sch. III
630      3-20-1986   32.32
637      11-20-1986  Ch. 74 Sch. I
642      7-2-1987    30.051
                     Ch. 74 Sch. I,
648      2-4-1988    Ch. 75 Sch. I,
                     Ch. 75 Sch. II
651      5-19-1988   32.15
654      7-21-1988   Ch. 75 Sch. VII
656      8-18-1988   Ch. 75 Sch. I
661      2-16-1989   Ch. 74 Sch. I
                     91.15—
672      11-2-1989   91.20,
                     91.99
673      11-2-1989   151.02
675      1-18-1990   Ch. 75 Sch. II
676      2-1-1990    112.16
677      2-1-1990    151.52,
                     151.99
680      6-21-1990   32.33
684      1-3-1991    Ch. 74 Sch. I
                     54.01—
                     54.07,
687      8-15-1991   54.20—
                     54.26,
                     54.99
693      10-3-1991   54.07
714      4-1-1993    30.001
715      4-1-1993    Ch. 75 Sch. IV
716      4-15-1993   151.52
719      6-3-1993    Ch. 75 Sch. II
728      4-21-1994   Ch. 75 Sch. II
731      4-21-1994   Ch. 74 Sch. I
739      9-15-1994   Ch. 75 Sch. II
748      12-7-1995   30.065—
                     30.076
765      1-16-1997   151.03,
                     151.99
770      6-5-1997    91.17
                     131.01—
777      8-7-1997    131.04,
                     131.99
779      9-4-1997    Ch. 75 Sch. II
783      10-2-1997   Ch. 74 Sch. III
787      2-5-1998    Ch. 75 Sch. II
788      2-5-1998    Ch. 75 Sch. II
789      2-5-1998    Ch. 75 Sch. II
                     33.010—
795      6-18-1998   33.016,
                     33.999
799      3-4-1999    Ch. 75 Sch. II
807      9-2-1999    30.037
809      10-7-1999   Ch. 74 Sch. I
813      4-6-2000    151.01
814      5-5-2000    33.060—
                     33.074
                     154.001—
                     154.012,
                     154.025—
                     154.039,
                     154.050—
                     154.062,
                     154.075—
                     154.079,
                     154.090—
                     154.098,
                     154.110—
834      2-1-2001    154.113,
                     154.125—
                     154.128,
                     154.140—
                     154.145,
                     154.160—
                     154.162,
                     154.175—
                     154.179,
                     154.190—
                     154.193,
                     154.999
                     33.030—
850      12-6-2001   33.046,
                     33.999
853      6-6-2002    Ch. 75 Sch. IV
                     53.085—
862      12-5-2002   53.092,
                     53.999
864      3-6-2003    150.01
                     30.090—
876      5-6-2004    30.094,
                     30.999
882      11-4-2004   Ch. 74 Sch. I
                     153.001—
                     153.009,
                     153.020—
                     153.022,
                     153.035—
889      8-4-2005    153.042,
                     153.055—
                     153.057,
                     153.070—
                     153.073,
                     153.999
904      6-7-2007    Ch. 75 Sch. II
906      9-6-2007    Ch. 75 Sch. II
913      6-5-2008    32.01
916      7-3-2008    34.15—
                     34.26
                     111.15—
919      8-7-2008    111.23,
                     111.99
                     152.01—
930      6-4-2009    152.12,
                     152.99
933      1-7-2010    111.22
942      1-6-2011    154.058,
                     154.094
                     53.004,
                     53.005,
                     53.020—
                     53.029,
                     53.040,
945      4-7-2011    53.041,
                     53.055,
                     53.056,
                     53.070,
                     53.071,
                     53.999
948      6-3-2011    30.036
953      10-6-2011   Ch. 74 Sch. I
957      12-1-2011   32.32
961      4-12-2012   30.035
963      6-7-2012    Ch. 74 Sch. I
965      6-7-2012    32.17
979      5-2-2013    52.01
985      1-2-2014    Ch. 75 Sch. VIII
987      2-6-2014    154.037
994      11-6-2014   54.20
1006     8-6-2015    Ch. 75 Sch. II
1008     10-1-2015   154.096
                     113.01—
1026     7-7-2016    113.12,
                     113.99
1027     8-4-2016    Ch. 75 Sch. II
1028     9-1-2016    154.097
1033     9-1-2016    34.04
                     71.01—
1042     4-6-2017    71.08,
                     71.99,
                     Ch. 75 Sch. IX
1052     10-5-2017   Ch. 75 Sch. II
1055     1-4-2018    110.06,
                     110.99
1056     1-4-2018    110.06
1069     3-1-2018    Ch. 75 Sch. VIII
1065     4-5-2018    Ch. 75 Sch. II
1068     7-5-2018    30.052
1088     9-5-2019    112.16
1070     10-4-2018   Ch. 74 Sch. I
1071     11-1-2018   32.35
1072     11-1-2018   Ch. 74 Sch. I
1073     12-6-2018   32.30,
                     32.35
                     73.01—
-        8-1-2019    73.12,
                     73.99,
                     154.077
1088     9-5-2019    112.16
1084     12-5-2019   154.033
                     30.068,
1086     1-29-2020   32.99,
                     51.01
1093     9-3-2020    30.021
1096     9-3-2020    Ch. 75 Sch. IV
1099     - -         Ch. 75 Sch. IV
                    
 
 
