SOUTH ROXANA, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-12 Supplement, current through:
Ordinance 25-15, passed 5-6-2025; and
State legislation through Illinois Legislative Service, 2024 Acts, Pamphlet No.
5
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE: 12-03
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF SOUTH ROXANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2nd supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the IL code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of IL; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF Village Of South Roxana:
Section 1. That the 2nd supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of
the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 6th day of March, 2012.
                        Kenny Beasley
ATTEST:
Tina Carpenter
Village Clerk
ORDINANCE 13-04
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF SOUTH ROXANA, ILLINOIS AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 3rd supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of South
Roxana, Illinois, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Village of South Roxana, Illinois; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE VILLAGE OF
SOUTH ROXANA, ILLINOIS:
Section 1.   The 3rd supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
South Roxana, Illinois as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Village
of South Roxana, Illinois is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this municipality, and such shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE VILLAGE OF SOUTH ROXANA,
ILLINOIS ON THIS _______ DAY OF ________, 2013.
                           ___________________________
                           VILLAGE PRESIDENT
ATTEST: __________________________
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
   
10.18   Jurisdiction
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of South Roxana shall be designated
as the Code of South Roxana and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD, BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the
village.
   CODE or THIS CODE. The Revised Code of Ordinances of the Village of South
Roxana, Illinois.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Mayor and the Village Board of Trustees.
   COUNTY. Madison County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Madison County, Illinois.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.  
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2(e))
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08)
   FISCAL YEAR. For the village, shall begin on May 1 of each year and end on
April 30 of the following year.
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of that act or omission.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the Village of South Roxana.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
   NEGLIGENT, NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE and NEGLIGENTLY. Imports a want of the
attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village, or any act or thing repugnant to or creating a
hazard to or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12)
   OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or any part of the building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
village".
   OFFICIAL TIME. Central standard time shall be the official time for the
transaction of the village business, except during applicable daylight savings
time set by national or state standards when the official time shall be
advanced one hour. All clocks and other timepieces in or upon public buildings
or other premises maintained by or at the expense of the village shall be set
and run at the official time prescribed by this paragraph.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of South Roxana. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons in
the employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or
shall hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29)
   STATE. Unless otherwise indicated, the State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   VILLAGE. The Village of South Roxana.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law or to injure another
or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law it shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression "Year of Our Lord".
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
(1994 Code, § 1-1-14)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed:
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular;
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders;
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future; and
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail.
   (B)   If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict
shall be construed so as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of
the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   (A)   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to
any office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   These references shall also include the designee or agent of the
officer or office, unless the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An "ILCS" cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An "ILCS" cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
      Freedom of Information Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.18 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, this code applies to acts performed
within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Provisions of this code also apply to acts performed outside the
corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed by law, where the law confers
power on the village to regulate those particular acts outside the corporate
limits.
(1994 Code, § 1-1-5)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any minor or person designated a juvenile by this state convicted of a
violation of any section of this code shall be fined a minimum of $50 and a sum
not to exceed $750 for any one offense, but may not be confined, except by
provisions of the Juvenile Court Act of the state.
(Ord. 99-07, passed 6-1-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 1-2-1.1
   Limitations on penalties, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   VILLAGE BOARD AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   ANNEXATIONS
      
33.   PLAN COMMISSION
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
36.   MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Documents information; rules
   
30.02   Gift ban adopted by reference
   
30.03   Ethics Act
   
30.04   Personnel Code adopted by reference
   
30.05   Provisions for compliance with the Illinois Freedom of Information Act
adopted by reference
   
30.06   Equal Employment Opportunity Policy
   
30.07   Village Procurement Policy
   
30.08   Prevailing Wage Act
   
30.09   Non-Harassment Policy
   
30.10   Unused and unpaid sick time at retirement
   
30.11   Paid Leave for All Workers Act
   
30.12   Nepotism prohibited
   
30.13   Authority of elected officials
Travel Payment and Reimbursement
   
30.15   Travel, meal and lodging expenses
Sexual Harassment and Discrimination
   
30.25   Purpose
   
30.26   Statement of policy
   
30.27   Definitions
   
30.28   Reporting
   
30.29   Retaliation prohibition
   
30.30   Investigation
   
30.31   Conciliation/resolution
   
30.32   Discipline
   
30.33   Workplace relationships
   
30.34   Other remedies
Sexual Harassment and Discrimination
   
30.25   Purpose
   
30.26   Statement of policy
   
30.27   Definitions
   
30.28   Reporting
   
30.29   Retaliation prohibition
   
30.30   Investigation
   
30.31   Conciliation/resolution
   
30.32   Discipline
   
30.33   Workplace relationships
   
30.34   Other remedies
Ethical and Behavior Standards of Conduct for Officials
   
30.45   Applicability and purpose
   
30.46   Definitions
   
30.47   Ethical standards of conduct
   
30.48   Disclosure of interest
   
30.49   Behavior standards of conduct
   
30.50   Violation and enforcement procedures
   
30.51   Implementation and compliance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 DOCUMENTS INFORMATION; RULES.
   The following rules are hereby established for requests for information
under the State Freedom of Information Act, being ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et
seq.:
   (A)   Requests for information must be made in writing on forms provided by
the village, and submitted to the office of Freedom of Information Officer;
   (B)   Copies of documents will not be provided before receipt of payment of
copying costs and other applicable charges;
   (C)   No copies will be provided without charge of copying costs;
   (D)   Onsite review of records may be made only in the presence of an
employee or other representative of the village;
   (E)   The actual cost of retrieval and review, in addition to the cost of
reproducing and certification, will be charged for records prepared and/or
received before July 1, 1984;
   (F)   The office of the Village Clerk is designated as the retention
location for requests for information;
   (G)   The Village Clerk is designated as the Freedom of Information Officer;
and
   (H)   Certification of copies of documents will be by request only, and a
fee will be charged.
(1994 Code, § 1-4-1) (Ord. 84-08, passed 7-3-1984)
§ 30.02 GIFT BAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Gift Ban Ordinance, and any and all amending ordinances, are hereby
adopted by reference, and set out as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 30.03 ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of § 5-15 (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15) and Art. 10
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials and
Employees Ethics Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred
to as the "Act" in this section) are hereby adopted by reference and made
applicable to the officers and employees of the village to the extent required
by ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5.
   (B)   The solicitations or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall be
defined as set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5 for similar violations
of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   (I)   If the State Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirely, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the State
Supreme Court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by Illinois Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 30.04 PERSONNEL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Village Personnel Code is hereby adopted by reference as if set forth in
full herein. Copies of the Personnel Code are available for public use during
business hours in the Office of the Village Clerk.
(1994 Code, §§ 29-1-1—29-20-3) (Ord. 86-10, passed 4-24-1986; Ord. 89-14,
passed 12-14-1989; Ord. 89-15, passed 12-14-1989; Ord. 93-12, passed 7-22-1993;
Ord. 01-04, passed 6-5-2001; Ord. 04-11, passed 9-21-2004; Ord. 08-15, passed
12-16-2008; Ord. 22-08, passed 9-6-2022)
§ 30.05 PROVISIONS FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE ILLINOIS FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    Ordinance No. 10-03, setting forth provisions for compliance with the
Illinois Freedom of Information Act, is hereby adopted by reference as if set
forth in full herein. Copies of Ordinance No. 10-03, and any amendments
thereto, are available for public use during business hours in the Office of
the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-16-2010)
§ 30.06 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY POLICY.
   (A)   Ordinance No. 12-15, setting forth the provisions of an equal
employment opportunity policy, including provisions to benefit individuals with
disabilities, is hereby adopted by reference as if set forth in full herein.
Copies of Ordinance No. 12-15 and any amendments thereto, are available for
public use during business hours in the Office of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   In order to provide equal employment and advancement opportunities to
all individuals, employment decisions at the village will be based on merit,
qualifications, and abilities. Except where required or permitted by law,
employment practices will not be influenced or affected by an applicant’s or
employee’s race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry,
citizenship, age, handicap, disability, marital status, sexual orientation,
military service, medical condition or any other characteristic protected by
applicable law.
   (C)   The village will make reasonable accommodations for qualified
individuals with known disabilities unless doing so would result in an undue
hardship. This policy governs all aspects of employment, including selection,
job assignment, compensation, discipline, termination, and access to benefits
and training.
   (D)   Any employees with questions or concerns about any type of
discrimination in the workplace are encouraged to bring these issues to the
attention of their immediate supervisor and/or the Mayor. Employees can raise
concerns and make reports without fear of reprisal. Anyone found to be engaging
in any type of unlawful discrimination will be subject to disciplinary action.
(Ord. 12-15, passed 11-8-2012; Res. 16-07, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 30.07 VILLAGE PROCUREMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose and scope. The Village of South Roxana Procurement Policy has
been established to ensure effective operations and cost control. This policy
applies to all village employees and departments.
   (B)   Responsibilities. It is the responsibility of all village employees to
adhere to the procurement policy as set forth by the Village Board.
   (C)   Village Administrator authority. The Village Administrator is
responsible for overseeing all purchases and grant permission before any
village employee places an order. The Village Administrator is limited to no
more than $500 per purchase without prior approval from the Village Board.
   (D)   Motor fuel tax (MFT) budget. An annual MFT budget prepared by an
engineering firm shall be presented to the Village Board for approval. Once the
Village Board has approved the MFT budget for the year, it shall be considered
an approved expenditure to provide services to the village under the line items
specified in the MFT budget.
   (E)   Bidding process. For any purchase over $25,000 (as required by state
law), the Village Administrator shall attempt to obtain at least three bids to
present to the Village Board for review, unless the purchase is through a state
bid.
   (F)   Emergency exemptions. The following situations are considered
emergencies and do not require Board approval, as they are necessary to
maintain essential daily village operations or public safety. Emergency
purchases are limited to repairs or replacements of critical infrastructure,
equipment, or services. Emergency expenditures should be reported to the
Village Board at the next regularly scheduled meeting:
      (1)   Water, sewer line, and lift station repairs.
      (2)   Repairs to existing heavy equipment (e.g., bobcat, backhoe, salt
spreader, dump truck).
      (3)   Servers, computers, and IT systems critical to daily operations or
cybersecurity.
      (4)   Public safety equipment (e.g., radio equipment, vehicles, first
responder tools and equipment).
      (5)   Utility and infrastructure repairs (e.g., power generators, pumping
equipment).
      (6)   Natural disaster response and recovery efforts.
      (7)   Any items required under the union contract to maintain operational
continuity.
   (G)   Staff. Staff shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Village Administrator.
      (2)   Public Works.
      (3)   Police Department.
      (4)   Village Clerk.
      (5)   Water Department.
(Ord. 15-16, passed 11-17-2015; Ord. 25-01, passed 1-7-2025)
§ 30.08 PREVAILING WAGE ACT.
   (A)   To the extent and as required by "An Act regulating wages of laborers,
mechanics and other workers employed in any public body or any political
subdivision or by any one under contract for public works," approved June 26,
1941, as amended, the general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for
laborers, mechanics or any other workers engaged in construction of public
works coming under the jurisdiction of the village is hereby ascertained to be
the same as the prevailing rate of wages for construction work in Madison
County area as determined by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois
as of June 2013, a copy of that determination being attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference. As required by said Act, any and all
revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by the Department of Labor of the
State of Illinois shall supercede the Department's June determination and apply
to any and all public works construction undertaken by the village. The
definition of any terms appearing in this section which are also used in the
aforesaid Act shall be the same as in said Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply said general prevailing
rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except public
works of this village to the extent required by the aforesaid Act.
   (C)   The village shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by
any interested party in the main office of the village this determination of
such prevailing rate of wage.
   (D)   The village shall mail a copy of this determination to any employer,
and to any association of employers and to any person or association of
employees who have filed, or file their names and addresses, requesting copies
of any determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of
workers whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   (E)   The village shall promptly file a certified copy of this chapter with
both the Secretary of State Index Division and the Department of Labor, State
of Illinois.
   (F)   The village shall cause a notice to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the area that the determination of prevailing wages
has been made. Said notice shall conform substantially to the notice attached
to Ord. 16-04. Such publication shall constitute that this is a determination
of the village and is effective.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 5-3-2016; Ord. 17-07, passed 6-6-2017; Ord. 18-06, passed
6-19-2018)
§ 30.09 NON-HARASSMENT POLICY.
   The village finds abhorrent any practice of harassment or discrimination in
the workplace based on any legally protected status. Every employee must be
treated with dignity and respect regardless of race, sex, color, religion, age,
national origin, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation or any other
protected group status as defined by federal, state and/or local laws.
Accordingly, the village will not tolerate harassing conduct, whether verbal,
physical or visual that creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working
environment.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 30.10 UNUSED AND UNPAID SICK TIME AT RETIREMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a policy to
compensate employees for unused and unpaid sick time at the time of their
retirement.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMPLOYEE. Any full-time employee of the village who is eligible to retire
under the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund or any other applicable retirement
plan.
      RETIREMENT. The voluntary termination of employment after fulfilling the
eligibility requirements under the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund or any
other applicable retirement plan.
      UNUSED AND UNPAID SICK TIME. The total amount of accumulated sick leave
that an employee has not used or been paid for at the time of their retirement.
   (C)   Compensation for unused and unpaid sick time. Upon retirement, each
employee will be eligible to receive payment for unused and unpaid sick time.
The payment will be calculated at the employee's current rate of pay at the
time of retirement. The maximum compensation for unused sick time shall not
exceed a cap of 480 hours, unless otherwise dictated by existing labor
agreements.
   (D)   Implementation. The Village Clerk is hereby directed to implement the
provisions of this section and ensure compliance.
(Ord. 23-09, passed 8-1-2023)
§ 30.11 PAID LEAVE FOR ALL WORKERS ACT.
   Pursuant to Section 15(p) of the Act, the village hereby adopts its current
paid leave policy for all village employees as set forth in the Code of
Ordinances, employee handbook, annual salary ordinances, any collective
bargaining agreements to which the village is a party and all other binding
legislative actions governing paid leave adopted by the village, as the same
may be amended from time to time. However, in no event shall the village, as an
employer, provide less than one day of paid leave per year to any village
employee.
(Ord. 23-12, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 30.12 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is enacted to prevent favoritism and conflicts
of interest in employment practices by prohibiting elected officials of the
village from hiring or influencing the hiring of their relatives.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. Any individual elected to a village office, including
the Mayor and Village Trustees.
      EMPLOYMENT DECISION. Any decision to appoint, hire, promote, transfer,
demote, discipline, evaluate, or recommend compensation for a village employee
or applicant.
      RELATIVE. A person related to an elected official as spouse, domestic
partner, child, stepchild, parent, stepparent, sibling, stepsibling,
grandparent, grandchild, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, in-law (parent, child,
sibling), or any individual residing in the same household.
   (C)   Prohibition.
      (1)   No elected official of the Village of South Roxana shall appoint,
hire, promote, or advocate for the appointment, hiring, or promotion of any
relative to a position of employment with the village.
      (2)   No elected official shall directly or indirectly influence, attempt
to influence, or participate in any employment decision involving a relative.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section does not prohibit the employment of a
relative of an elected official if: The individual was employed by the village
prior to the election or appointment of the official to public office.
   (E)   Enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   A violation of this section by any elected official may constitute
a breach of official duty and may subject the official to:
         (a)   Public censure by resolution of the Village Board; and/or
         (b)   Referral to the appropriate state or county legal authority for
potential enforcement under the Illinois Public Officer Prohibited Activities
Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act 105).
      (2)   Any employment action taken in violation of this section may be
declared void by the Village Board.
(Ord. 25-07, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 30.13 AUTHORITY OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Mayor (Village President).
      (1)   The Mayor shall serve as the chief executive officer of the
village, as provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-15-10, and shall:
         (a)   Preside over meetings of the Board of Trustees;
         (b)   Enforce ordinances and execute contracts approved by the Board
of Trustees;
         (c)   Represent the village in intergovernmental affairs or delegate
such representation;
         (d)   Designate the Village Administrator as the Mayor's official
designee for purposes of supervising village staff, overseeing day-to-day
operations, coordinating internal administrative matters and intergovernmental
matters. All internal inquiries, staff oversight, and direction shall be
conducted through the Administrator unless otherwise authorized by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor shall also have all authority and perform all duties as
further set forth in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3.1 et seq.
   (B)   Village Trustees. Trustees shall:
      (1)   Exercise legislative powers solely by ordinance, resolution, or
motion approved by a majority vote of the Board of Trustees, except as
expressly provided for under ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3.1 et seq.;
      (2)   Participate in deliberations and serve on committees as assigned;
      (3)   Possess no individual executive, supervisory, or investigatory
authority, unless specifically provided for under Illinois law or the village's
code of ordinances;
      (4)   Not act independently to direct staff, implement decisions, or
represent the village without prior authorization to do so;
      (5)   Not interfere with or revisit the implementation of contracts,
expenditures, or actions already approved by the Board of Trustees; provided,
however, that if a contract, expenditure or action is approved by the Board of
Trustees, it may be revisited by the Board of Trustees if the Ethics Board so
directs pursuant to a finding and decision made the Ethics Board for a duly
filed complaint with the Ethics Officer for any violations under Ordinance No.
25-09 (Ethical and Behavior Standards of Conduct for Officials).
(Ord. 25-06, passed 5-6-2025)
TRAVEL PAYMENT AND REIMBURSEMENT
§ 30.15 TRAVEL, MEAL AND LODGING EXPENSE PAYMENT AND REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The village shall cover reasonable travel, meal, and lodging
expenses incurred by employees and officials in the performance of official
duties, provided they are pre-approved and documented as required by this
section.
   (B)   Expense coverage.
      (1)   Meals.
         (a)   The village shall cover the cost of meals at the current U.S.
General Services Administration (GSA) per diem rates for the location of
travel.
         (b)   Receipts must be provided to document the expenditure.
      (2)   Lodging.
         (a)   The village shall pay for lodging expenses up to the maximum
allowable rate under GSA guidelines for the location of travel.
         (b)   Pre-approval of lodging arrangements is required.
      (3)   Transportation.
         (a)   The village shall cover the cost of travel, including airfare,
public transit, or mileage for personal vehicles at the current IRS standard
mileage rate, where applicable.
         (b)   Receipts or mileage logs must be provided.
   (C)   Approval process.
      (1)   All travel, meal, and lodging expenses must be pre-approved by the
Village Administrator or Village President.
      (2)   Expense receipts and documentation of the official purpose of the
travel must be provided following the completion of the travel.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 8-15-2017; Ord. 25-02, passed 1-7-2025)
SEXUAL HARASSMENT AND DISCRIMINATION
§ 30.25 PURPOSE.
   It is the policy of the village, consistent with applicable federal and
state laws, that harassment or discrimination in any form is unacceptable,
including sexual harassment and misconduct. To that end, the following policy
has been adopted by the Board of Trustees of the village in accordance with
ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430 § 70-5 and Public Act 100-554, effective January 1, 2018.
This policy is applicable to all persons affiliated with the village in any
manner, including, but not limited to, employees (full or part-time),
volunteers, and officials (members of the Board of Trustees and any appointees
of the Board of Trustees).
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.26 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   Harassment or discrimination in any form, including, but not limited to,
sexual harassment and sexual misconduct, as defined herein, are prohibited in
connection with all activities of the village. This prohibition applies to all
persons affiliated with the village in any capacity, including persons
occupying a voluntary or uncompensated position and persons doing business with
the village. Such conduct is illegal under the Illinois Human Rights Act and
corresponding federal laws and regulations. All persons have a right to work in
an environment free from sexual harassment. All persons subject to this policy
are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment
relationship or lack thereof.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.27 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PHYSICAL HARASSMENT.  Assault, impeding or blocking movement, leering, or
the physical interference with normal work, privacy, or movement, when such
conduct is directed at an individual on the basis of race, religious creed,
color, national origin, ancestry, disability, medical condition, marital
status, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender, or age. This includes pinching,
patting, grabbing, groping, inappropriate behavior at or near bathrooms,
sleeping facilities, and eating areas, or making explicit or implied threats or
promises in return for submission of physical acts.
   SEXUAL HARASSMENT. Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors,
and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual
harassment when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individual's employment or the person's status or
activity associated with the village.
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment, membership, promotion, participation, or activity
associated with the village.
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work or participation performance in an activity
associated with the village by creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive
working environment. For purposes of this policy the phrase WORKING ENVIRONMENT
is not limited to a physical location where a person is assigned to perform his
or her duties and it does not require an employment relationship.
   SEXUAL MISCONDUCT. Defined as follows:
      (1)   Sexual harassment as defined above;
      (2)   Rape or sexual contact by force, threat or intimidation; and
      (3)   Sexual conduct (such as, but not limited to, offensive, obscene or
suggestive language or behavior, unacceptable visual contact, unwelcome
touching or fondling) that is injurious to the physical or emotional health of
another.
   VERBAL HARASSMENT. Epithets, derogatory comments, slurs, propositioning, or
otherwise offensive words or comments on the basis of race, religious creed,
color, national origin, ancestry, disability, medical condition, marital
status, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender, or age, whether made in general,
directed to an individual or to a group of people regardless of whether the
conduct was intended to harass. This includes, but is not limited to,
inappropriate sexually oriented comments on appearance, including dress or
physical features, sexual rumors, code words, and race oriented stories.
   VISUAL FORMS OF HARASSMENT. Derogatory, prejudicial, stereotypical, or
otherwise offensive posters, photographs, cartoons/ notes, bulletins, drawings,
objects or pictures on the basis of race, religious creed, color, national
origin, ancestry, disability, medical condition, marital status, pregnancy,
sexual orientation, gender, or age. This applies to both posted material or
material maintained in or on village equipment or personal property in the
workplace.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.28 REPORTING.
   Any person affiliated with the village who feels that he or she is the
victim of harassment or discrimination may file a complaint with the village
regarding the alleged conduct. The complaint is to be in writing and is to be
submitted to the employee's immediate supervisor (unless the complaint involves
the immediate supervisor, in which case it will be submitted to the President
of the Board of Trustees). The complaint should describe the conduct and
include the time(s), date(s), and location(s) of the conduct and the name(s) of
any witness(es) to the conduct. The complaint should be made within 30 days of
the date of the alleged incident giving rise to the complaint. The complaint
should be made on a confidential basis.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.29 RETALIATION PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person who makes a complaint under this policy shall be retaliated
against in any manner for submitting the complaint and it shall be a violation
of this policy for any person affiliated with the village to retaliate in any
manner against a complaining party.
   (B)   These protections against retaliation include the whistleblower
protections available under the State Officials and Employee Ethics Act, the
Illinois Whistleblower Act, and the Illinois Human Rights Act.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.30 INVESTIGATION.
   Promptly upon receipt of a complaint of violation of this policy, the
immediate supervisor will conduct an investigation regarding the allegations of
the complaint, including consultation with the complaining party, with the
party accused of the misconduct or harassment, and with any witnesses to the
conduct complained of. Such additional investigation as deemed appropriate by
the immediate supervisor may be undertaken, including consultation with
appropriate law enforcement authorities. If the immediate supervisor is the
subject of the complaint, the President of the Board of Trustees or his or her
designee will investigate the complaint.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.31 CONCILIATION/RESOLUTION.
   If the immediate supervisor (or the President of the Board of Trustees [or
his or her designee] if the complaint involves the immediate supervisor) makes
a determination that there is merit to the complaint, the immediate supervisor
(or the President of the Board of Trustees [or his or her designee]) may meet
with the parties involved to attempt to conciliate the complaint or conflict
between the parties if the parties involved are amenable to such an effort and
the person making the determination of merit reasonably determines that a
resolution of the complaint by conciliation is feasible and in the best
interest of the parties and the village.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.32 DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   If the immediate supervisor (or President of the Board [or his or her
designee]) determines that the complaint is credible and if the complaint is
not resolved by conciliation, the complaint shall be forwarded in writing to
the Board of Trustees together with a report of investigation and a recommended
disciplinary action. The Board, prior to acting on the matter, will afford the
complaining party and the party accused of the conduct complained of, a chance
to address the Board. Reasonable notice will be given to each party of the
time, date and location of the meeting at which the Board will consider the
matter. Violations of this policy may result in discipline up to and including
termination, and each violation may constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   False or unfounded accusations of sexual harassment, or other
harassment or discrimination, can have serious effects on innocent persons. If
an investigation of a complaint supports a conclusion that an employee or other
person has knowingly made a false accusation of harassment or discrimination,
the Board may take appropriate disciplinary action up to and including
termination of any employee or other person affiliated with the village making
a false or unfounded accusation.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.33 WORKPLACE RELATIONSHIPS.
   Personnel who desire to or who become involved with someone in the workplace
are subject to the following rules:
   (A)   There shall be no dating activities on village time or on village
property.
   (B)   There shall be no use of village property to arrange dating
activities.
   (C)   All behavior between village employees, volunteers, and/or officers
shall be behavior which is conducive to a sound professional work environment
at all times when on village property or on village time. Hand holding,
kissing, hugging, sexual comments, and other behavior generally associated with
a dating relationship are inappropriate while on village time or village
property.
   (D)   Any relationship between personnel at different levels on the chain of
command or where one party has supervisory responsibility over another shall be
reported by the person of higher rank to the supervisor of that person
immediately. The failure to report this type of relationship is a violation of
this policy and will be treated as a disciplinary matter. The immediate
supervisor shall take such steps as may be reasonably necessary to assure that
the relationship does not detract from a sound professional work environment
and may include transfers for the higher ranking person to a different
position.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.34 OTHER REMEDIES.
   Persons with claims of harassment or discrimination may also contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights, 222 South College, Springfield, IL 62701;
the Illinois Human Rights Commission, Stratton Office Building, Springfield, IL
62701, or the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, 500 West
Madison Street, Chicago, IL 60661. These agencies have additional complaint and
investigative procedures regarding claims of harassment or discrimination.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
SEXUAL HARASSMENT AND DISCRIMINATION
§ 30.25 PURPOSE.
   It is the policy of the village, consistent with applicable federal and
state laws, that harassment or discrimination in any form is unacceptable,
including sexual harassment and misconduct. To that end, the following policy
has been adopted by the Board of Trustees of the village in accordance with
ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430 § 70-5 and Public Act 100-554, effective January 1, 2018.
This policy is applicable to all persons affiliated with the village in any
manner, including, but not limited to, employees (full or part-time),
volunteers, and officials (members of the Board of Trustees and any appointees
of the Board of Trustees).
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.26 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   Harassment or discrimination in any form, including, but not limited to,
sexual harassment and sexual misconduct, as defined herein, are prohibited in
connection with all activities of the village. This prohibition applies to all
persons affiliated with the village in any capacity, including persons
occupying a voluntary or uncompensated position and persons doing business with
the village. Such conduct is illegal under the Illinois Human Rights Act and
corresponding federal laws and regulations. All persons have a right to work in
an environment free from sexual harassment. All persons subject to this policy
are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment
relationship or lack thereof.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.27 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PHYSICAL HARASSMENT.  Assault, impeding or blocking movement, leering, or
the physical interference with normal work, privacy, or movement, when such
conduct is directed at an individual on the basis of race, religious creed,
color, national origin, ancestry, disability, medical condition, marital
status, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender, or age. This includes pinching,
patting, grabbing, groping, inappropriate behavior at or near bathrooms,
sleeping facilities, and eating areas, or making explicit or implied threats or
promises in return for submission of physical acts.
   SEXUAL HARASSMENT. Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors,
and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual
harassment when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individual's employment or the person's status or
activity associated with the village.
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment, membership, promotion, participation, or activity
associated with the village.
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work or participation performance in an activity
associated with the village by creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive
working environment. For purposes of this policy the phrase WORKING ENVIRONMENT
is not limited to a physical location where a person is assigned to perform his
or her duties and it does not require an employment relationship.
   SEXUAL MISCONDUCT. Defined as follows:
      (1)   Sexual harassment as defined above;
      (2)   Rape or sexual contact by force, threat or intimidation; and
      (3)   Sexual conduct (such as, but not limited to, offensive, obscene or
suggestive language or behavior, unacceptable visual contact, unwelcome
touching or fondling) that is injurious to the physical or emotional health of
another.
   VERBAL HARASSMENT. Epithets, derogatory comments, slurs, propositioning, or
otherwise offensive words or comments on the basis of race, religious creed,
color, national origin, ancestry, disability, medical condition, marital
status, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender, or age, whether made in general,
directed to an individual or to a group of people regardless of whether the
conduct was intended to harass. This includes, but is not limited to,
inappropriate sexually oriented comments on appearance, including dress or
physical features, sexual rumors, code words, and race oriented stories.
   VISUAL FORMS OF HARASSMENT. Derogatory, prejudicial, stereotypical, or
otherwise offensive posters, photographs, cartoons/ notes, bulletins, drawings,
objects or pictures on the basis of race, religious creed, color, national
origin, ancestry, disability, medical condition, marital status, pregnancy,
sexual orientation, gender, or age. This applies to both posted material or
material maintained in or on village equipment or personal property in the
workplace.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.28 REPORTING.
   Any person affiliated with the village who feels that he or she is the
victim of harassment or discrimination may file a complaint with the village
regarding the alleged conduct. The complaint is to be in writing and is to be
submitted to the employee's immediate supervisor (unless the complaint involves
the immediate supervisor, in which case it will be submitted to the President
of the Board of Trustees). The complaint should describe the conduct and
include the time(s), date(s), and location(s) of the conduct and the name(s) of
any witness(es) to the conduct. The complaint should be made within 30 days of
the date of the alleged incident giving rise to the complaint. The complaint
should be made on a confidential basis.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.29 RETALIATION PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person who makes a complaint under this policy shall be retaliated
against in any manner for submitting the complaint and it shall be a violation
of this policy for any person affiliated with the village to retaliate in any
manner against a complaining party.
   (B)   These protections against retaliation include the whistleblower
protections available under the State Officials and Employee Ethics Act, the
Illinois Whistleblower Act, and the Illinois Human Rights Act.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.30 INVESTIGATION.
   Promptly upon receipt of a complaint of violation of this policy, the
immediate supervisor will conduct an investigation regarding the allegations of
the complaint, including consultation with the complaining party, with the
party accused of the misconduct or harassment, and with any witnesses to the
conduct complained of. Such additional investigation as deemed appropriate by
the immediate supervisor may be undertaken, including consultation with
appropriate law enforcement authorities. If the immediate supervisor is the
subject of the complaint, the President of the Board of Trustees or his or her
designee will investigate the complaint.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.31 CONCILIATION/RESOLUTION.
   If the immediate supervisor (or the President of the Board of Trustees [or
his or her designee] if the complaint involves the immediate supervisor) makes
a determination that there is merit to the complaint, the immediate supervisor
(or the President of the Board of Trustees [or his or her designee]) may meet
with the parties involved to attempt to conciliate the complaint or conflict
between the parties if the parties involved are amenable to such an effort and
the person making the determination of merit reasonably determines that a
resolution of the complaint by conciliation is feasible and in the best
interest of the parties and the village.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.32 DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   If the immediate supervisor (or President of the Board [or his or her
designee]) determines that the complaint is credible and if the complaint is
not resolved by conciliation, the complaint shall be forwarded in writing to
the Board of Trustees together with a report of investigation and a recommended
disciplinary action. The Board, prior to acting on the matter, will afford the
complaining party and the party accused of the conduct complained of, a chance
to address the Board. Reasonable notice will be given to each party of the
time, date and location of the meeting at which the Board will consider the
matter. Violations of this policy may result in discipline up to and including
termination, and each violation may constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   False or unfounded accusations of sexual harassment, or other
harassment or discrimination, can have serious effects on innocent persons. If
an investigation of a complaint supports a conclusion that an employee or other
person has knowingly made a false accusation of harassment or discrimination,
the Board may take appropriate disciplinary action up to and including
termination of any employee or other person affiliated with the village making
a false or unfounded accusation.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.33 WORKPLACE RELATIONSHIPS.
   Personnel who desire to or who become involved with someone in the workplace
are subject to the following rules:
   (A)   There shall be no dating activities on village time or on village
property.
   (B)   There shall be no use of village property to arrange dating
activities.
   (C)   All behavior between village employees, volunteers, and/or officers
shall be behavior which is conducive to a sound professional work environment
at all times when on village property or on village time. Hand holding,
kissing, hugging, sexual comments, and other behavior generally associated with
a dating relationship are inappropriate while on village time or village
property.
   (D)   Any relationship between personnel at different levels on the chain of
command or where one party has supervisory responsibility over another shall be
reported by the person of higher rank to the supervisor of that person
immediately. The failure to report this type of relationship is a violation of
this policy and will be treated as a disciplinary matter. The immediate
supervisor shall take such steps as may be reasonably necessary to assure that
the relationship does not detract from a sound professional work environment
and may include transfers for the higher ranking person to a different
position.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 30.34 OTHER REMEDIES.
   Persons with claims of harassment or discrimination may also contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights, 222 South College, Springfield, IL 62701;
the Illinois Human Rights Commission, Stratton Office Building, Springfield, IL
62701, or the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, 500 West
Madison Street, Chicago, IL 60661. These agencies have additional complaint and
investigative procedures regarding claims of harassment or discrimination.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 2-6-2018)
ETHICAL AND BEHAVIOR STANDARDS OF CONDUCT FOR OFFICIALS
§ 30.45 APPLICABILITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is essential to effective operation of democratic government that
public officials and employees be independent, honest, and impartial in the
conduct of their duties; that all governmental decisions be made on the merits
following fair and open processes and in compliance with state statutes and
this code; that public office and employment not be used for private/personal
gain or to advance the interest of a family or relative; and that citizens have
confidence in the integrity of their government. In recognition of these goals,
there is established this code of ethical and behavioral standards of conduct
for all village public officials, whether elected or appointed, paid or unpaid,
and for all village employees and members.
   (B)   The Village of South Roxana Board of Trustees adopts this code of
ethics and behavior standards for the members of the Village Board of Trustees
and the village's various boards and commissions, to ensure its effective and
fair operation of the village, and public confidence in the integrity of local
government.
(Ord. 25-09, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 30.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
2025 S-12
   CONFIDENTIAL or PRIVILEGED INFORMATION. Public records and information
exempt from inspection and copying under any provision of the Illinois Freedom
of Information Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq., that are designated and
labeled as confidential by the Board of Trustees or any committee thereof, and
any matter or information properly the subject of a closed meeting or session
pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, §§
1.01 et seq. and Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.)
   ETHICS BOARD. The board consisting of the Village Mayor, Village
Administrator, and one Village Trustee as appointed by the Village Mayor. The
Village Mayor may change the appointment of the Village Trustee from time to
time in his or her discretion in accordance with state law. The Village Mayor
shall also appoint a separate Village Trustee as an alternate Ethics Board
member who shall serve only in the event that a conflict of interest prevents
an Ethics Board member from hearing a matter. The Ethics Board shall conduct
hearings of purported violations of this subchapter and the State Officials and
Employees Ethics Act, and shall impose disciplinary action for violations as it
deems fit or refer violations to the Madison County State Attorney or the
Illinois Attorney General.
   ETHICS OFFICER. The public official appointed to Ethics Officer. Pursuant to
§
31.081, the Village Clerk was duly appointed as Ethics Officer. The Ethics
Officer shall serve and perform all duties as set forth in §
31.081 and as further provided for herein.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse; children and grandchildren and their spouses;
parents and spouse's parents; and brothers and sisters and their spouses.
   INTEREST. Any material direct or indirect benefit accruing to a public
official or employee or their family members, whether in the public official's
or employee's own name or the name of any person, firm, corporation,
association, or trust from which the official or employee is entitled to
receive any financial benefit, as a result of a contract or transaction that is
or that is known will become the subject of an official act or action by or
with the village; provided, however, that the term "interest" shall not
include:
      (1)   Any such benefit accruing as a result of any such contracts or
transactions that by their terms and substance confer on all other citizens of
the village the opportunity and right to realize similar benefits.
      (2)   Any such benefit accruing to a public official or employee solely
by reason of ownership of less than one-half of one percent of the publicly
traded stock of a business entity realizing such a benefit.
      (3)   The employment of any family member of a public official in any
temporary position or in any permanent part-time position, provided that such
family member is otherwise qualified and meets all requirements for such
employment and is not treated in any manner differently than any other employee
in a comparable position for purposes of wages or benefits paid or work
evaluations performed.
2025 S-12
   MEMBER. Any member of the Village of South Roxana Board of Trustees, or any
village board or commission established by Village Code ordinance or policy or
Illinois law, and shall include elected and appointed officers of the village.
   OFFICIAL ACT or OFFICIAL ACTION. Any legislative administrative, appointive,
or discretionary act of any public official or employee of the village or any
agency, board, committee, or commission thereof.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL or EMPLOYEE. Any person, officer, or employee holding a
position by election, appointment or employment in the service of the village,
whether paid or unpaid, including members of any agency, board, committee, or
commission thereof; provided, however, that independent contractors shall not
be considered public officials or employees.
   TRANSACTION. Any matter, including but not limited to contracts, work, or
business with the village, the sale or purchase of real estate by the village,
or any request for zoning amendments, variations, planned development approval,
or special use permits, involving or requiring any official act or action of
the village.
(Ord. 25-09, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 30.47 ETHICAL STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   The citizens and businesses of the Village of South Roxana, Illinois
are entitled to have a fair, ethical and accountable local government,
including the following:
      (1)   Public officials, both elected and appointed, shall comply with
both the letter and spirit of the laws and policies affecting the operations of
government;
      (2)   Public officials shall be independent, impartial and fair in their
judgment and actions;
      (3)   Public office shall be used only for the public good, and not for
any personal gain; and
      (4)   Open deliberations and processes, except as otherwise specifically
allowed by law, an atmosphere of respect and civility.
   (B)   Public officials shall conduct themselves in accordance with the
following ethical standards:
      (1)   Act in the public interest. For stewardship of the public interest,
public officials will work for the common good of the people of the Village of
South Roxana, Illinois and not for any private or personal interest, and they
will ensure fair and equal treatment of all persons, claims and transactions
coming before them.
      (2)   Comply with law and policies. Com ply with both the letter and the
spirit of the ordinances and policies of the Village of South Roxana, Illinois,
and of the laws of the United States and the State of Illinois.
2025 S-12
      (3)   Conduct of public officials. Public officials shall refrain from
verbal attacks, personal charges or abusive conduct relating to the character
or motives of other members of the Village Board of Trustees, village boards
and commission(s), employees, or the public.
      (4)   Respect for process. Public officials shall perform their duties in
accordance with the processes and rules of order established by the board or
commission on which they serve.
      (5)   Disclosure and use of confidential or privileged information. No
public official or employee shall disclose, without proper legal authorization,
confidential or privileged information concerning the property, government, or
affairs of the village. Nor shall any public official or employee use any such
confidential or privileged information to advance the interest of such public
official or employee or his/her/their family members.
      (6)   Communications/Open Meetings Act.
         (a)   Under the Illinois Open Meetings Act, a "meeting" is defined as
any gathering, whether in person or by video or audio conference, telephone
call, electronic means (such as, without limitation, electronic mail,
electronic chat, and instant messaging), or other means of contemporaneous
interactive communication, of a majority of a quorum of the members of a public
held for the purpose of discussing public business, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, §
1.02.
         (b)   Public officials or employees must refrain from engaging in
discussions of any public business, outside of a proper meeting of the public
body, among three or more of them at any time.
      (7)   Conflict of interest. In order to assure independence and
impartiality on behalf of the common good and compliance with the conflict of
interest laws, no public official or employee shall use their official
positions to influence government decisions in which they have: 1) a material
financial interest; 2) an organizational responsibility or personal
relationship which may give the appearance of a conflict of interest; or 3) a
strong personal bias.
         (a)   Any public official or employee with a conflict of interest
regarding a particular matter shall not, once the conflict is ascertained,
discuss or comment on the matter in any way to any person (including other
members), and shall not participate in the decision, unless otherwise permitted
by law.
         (b)   Any interest permitted or prohibited under applicable state laws
and regulations, as they may be amended from time to time, shall be permitted
or prohibited under the same circumstances and conditions as therein set forth.
      (8)   Appearance of impropriety. Public officials or employees shall use
their best efforts to refrain from creating an appearance of impropriety in
their actions and decisions.
         (a)   No public official or employee shall acquire an interest in or
position himself/herself/themselves to be beneficially affected by any
transaction, or the subject matter thereof, at a time when the public official
or employee believes or has reason to believe that such transaction will
directly or indirectly be affected by an official act or action of such
official or employee.
2025 S-12
         (b)   No public official or employee shall grant any special
consideration, treatment, or advantage to any person or business entity beyond
that which is available to every other citizen.
      (9)   Appearance of third party. Except as otherwise provided by law, no
public official or employee shall appear on behalf of any private person or
business entity, other than himself/herself/themselves or a family member: 1)
before any village agency, board, committee, or commission; or 2) before any
other agency, board, committee, or commission, or court regarding the subject
matter of any transaction that is pending before the village or in which an
interest of the village is directly involved. Provided, however, that nothing
in this division shall be construed to prohibit an appearance without
compensation by a public official on behalf of his constituents in the course
of such public official's duties as representative of such constituents, or in
the discharge of such public official's public or civil obligations, or to
prohibit an appearance by a public official or employee as a duly authorized
representative by the village.
      (10)   Advocacy and misrepresentation of village positions.
         (a)   No public official or employee shall state that the village has
made a particular decision or adopted a position when such public official or
employee knows that the village has in fact not duly made or adopted such
decision or position. When presenting personal opinions and positions, members
shall explicitly state that such do not represent the public body or the
Village of South Roxana, Illinois.
         (b)   This division shall not be construed to prohibit any public
official or employee from stating his/her/their personal views and opinions
concerning any matter so long as such views and opinions are clearly identified
as such and not as the official decision or position of the village.
      (11)   Policy role of members.
         (a)   Members shall adhere to the structure of the Village of South
Roxana, Illinois government as outlined in the Village Code.
         (b)   In this structure, the Board of Trustees determines the laws and
policies of the village.
         (c)   Public officials or employees shall not interfere with the
administrative functions of the village or the duties of the respective public
officials or employees; village staff or consultants; nor shall they impair the
ability of public officials or employees to implement village policy decisions.
(Ord. 25-09, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 30.48 DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST.
   Any public official or employee who has an interest in a contract or
transaction that is or that is known will become the subject of an official act
or action in which such public official or employee is involved shall disclose
on the record of the agency, board, committee, or commission which performs
2025 S-12
such official act, or to the Village Manager in the case of employees, the
nature and extent of such interest, and shall not participate in any manner in
the official action of the village, agency, board, committee, or commission.
(Ord. 25-09, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 30.49 BEHAVIOR STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   The guidelines for conduct set forth herein are intended to describe the
manner in which public officials or employees should treat one another,
constituents, and others with whom they come into contact while representing
the Village of South Roxana, Illinois.
   (A)   General behavior guidelines. Public officials or employees shall
endeavor to communicate with each other and with members of the public at all
public meetings, and while discussing affairs in public forums (including
social networks and social media platforms) in accordance with the following
guidelines:
      (1)   Treat everyone courteously and respectfully.
      (2)   Give open-minded consideration to all viewpoints.
      (3)   Embrace respectful disagreement and dissent as rights that are
components of an inclusive public process and tools for forgoing sound
decisions.
      (4)   Refrain from personal attacks on others.
   (B)   Elected and appointed public officials' conduct with one another.
      (1)   It is the responsibility of the chair at any meeting to manage the
proceedings, including the discussion of business and the comments of public
officials; and public officials should honor efforts by the chair to focus
discussion on current agenda items.
      (2)   Public officials should:
         (a)   Practice civility in discussions and debate.
         (b)   Refrain from belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous,
threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.
         (c)   Call to the chair for a "point of personal privilege" if
offended by the comments of another member, to challenge the other member to
justify or apologize for such comment.
         (d)   Use formal titles, such as mayor, chair, trustee or
commissioner, followed by the individual's last name.
2025 S-12
         (e)   Demonstrate effective problem-solving approaches.
   (C)   Elected and appointed public officials' conduct with the public.
      (1)   In public meetings.
         (a)   No signs of partiality, prejudice or disrespect should be
evident on the part of any public official toward an individual participating
in a public forum.
         (b)   Every effort should be made to be welcoming, fair and impartial
in listening to public comment or testimony. While questions of clarification
may be asked, the public official's primary role during public testimony is to
listen, not to interrogate. Ask for clarification but avoid debate or argument.
         (c)   The chair will determine and announce any applicable limits on
speakers at the start of a public hearing process.
      (2)   In unofficial settings.
         (a)   Make no promises on behalf of the village, the Board of
Trustees, or other board or commission.
         (b)   Respond to inquiries from the public about an action taken by
the Board of Trustees and/or commission by brief overview of village policy and
referring to the Village Mayor, to the Village Clerk, or by invitation to a
public meeting, for further information.
         (c)   Make no promises of a specific village action.
   (D)   Elected and appointed village officials' conduct with village
employees. Do not solicit any type of political support (financial
contributions, display of posters or lawn signs, name on support list, etc.)
from village employees; provided, however, that village employees may, as
private citizens with constitutional rights, support political candidates,
provided all such activities occur outside the workplace.
   (E)   Village officials or employees and the Village Attorney. In regard to
any matter relating to the village business, village officials or employees
cannot establish an attorney-client relationship and shall not seek to do so
with the Village Attorney, including his or her staff, and any other attorneys
contracted to work on behalf of the village. That is, the Village Attorney
represents the village and not the individual village officials or employees.
   (F)   Conduct with media platforms.
      (1)   Board and commission village officials are not authorized to
represent the village to media outlets (including broadcast, print, and social
media sites) outside of official board/commission meetings, unless specifically
delegated to do so.
2025 S-12
      (2)   The Village Mayor is the official spokesperson for the village on
the village's positions.
      (3)   When speaking to the media about village business, a village
official should be clear about whether his/her/their comments constitute a
personal viewpoint or opinion, or if it represents an official village
position.
(Ord. 25-09, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 30.50 VIOLATION AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Authority and initial procedures. All complaints regarding a potential
violation of this code of ethics and behavior standards of conduct shall be
made, in writing, to the Ethics Officer. If a conflict exists with the Ethics
Officer regarding the complaint, then the Ethics Officer shall submit the
written complaint to the Village Mayor for review and investigation. Upon
receipt of any complaint, the Ethics Officer shall initiate an informal review
and investigation of the complaint, with notice to the alleged violator, prior
to submittal and recommendation for disciplinary action to the Ethics Board in
conformity with the provisions herein. This shall be completed no later than 30
days after receipt of the complaint. If the Ethics Officer has cause to believe
that a violation has occurred after informal review and investigation, the
Ethics Officer shall refer the matter to the Ethics Board and may recommend
disciplinary action to the Ethics Board in conformity with the provisions
herein.
   (B)   The Ethics Board. Whenever a complaint has been referred to the Ethics
Board by the Ethics Officer for possible disciplinary action, the alleged
violator shall be provided written notice of such. If the alleged violator
desires a hearing on the matter, he/she/they may request one within seven
business days after receipt of the written notice of the complaint referral to
the Ethics Board. After receipt of the alleged violator's written request for a
hearing on the complaint, the Ethics Board shall thereafter schedule a special
meeting convened to consider the alleged violation (s) of this code of ethics
and behavior standards of conduct pursuant to the procedures described herein.
The Ethics Board shall provide at least seven days' advance written notice to
the alleged violator of the date and location of the special meeting. The
Ethics Board shall convene this special meeting no later than 30 days after
receiving the alleged violator's written request.
   (C)   Procedures for disciplinary action. At any hearing before the Ethics
Board under this code, the village, through the Ethics Officer, and the alleged
violator shall be allowed to present testimony and evidence related to the
complaint and alleged violation(s). The strict rules of evidence shall not
apply but all evidence shall be of a type reasonably relied upon by a
reasonably prudent person in the conduct of his/her/their affairs. The hearing
may be closed to the public only if authorized by the Open Meetings Act. The
Village Mayor shall preside over the hearings. A written decision with a
finding of facts and the imposition of disciplinary action, if any, shall be
made by the Ethics Board, by a two-thirds decision, within seven business days
after the hearing, and shall be transmitted to the alleged violator via
certified mail. Any party may represent himself/herself/themselves, or may be
represented by legal counsel of his/her/their won choice and expense, unless
otherwise required by applicable law or ordinance.
2025 S-12
   (D)   Disciplinary action. A finding by the Ethics Board that any public
official or employee has violated any provision of this code of ethics and
behavior standards of conduct shall, to the extent allowed by state law,
constitute cause for reprimand, censure, suspension, removal, or other
appropriate disciplinary action. Nothing in this code of ethics and conduct
shall limit other means required or available to remedy conduct that violates
the village code of ordinances or state or federal law. These sanctions are
alternatives to any other remedy that might otherwise be available to remedy
conduct that violates this code or state or federal law. In cases of a
continuing violation, the Village Attorney is authorized to apply to a court of
competent jurisdiction for a restraining order or injunction to abate such
violation.
   (E)   Frivolous complaints. Any member of the village who willfully and
intentionally files a complaint without regard for the truth of the matters set
forth in said complaint shall be subject to discipline, up to and including
termination.
   (F)   Appeals. Any public official or employee found to be in violation by
the Ethics Board of this code of ethics and behavior standards of conduct may
appeal such decision at any court or tribunal of competent jurisdiction, or
make any such other appeals as provided by state law and due process
requirements. Any such appeal shall not stay any disciplinary action ordered by
the Ethics Board unless so directed by state law or by a court or tribunal of
competent jurisdiction.
   (G)   Reconsideration of transaction. Any transaction that was the subject
of an official act or action of the village in which any public official or
employee has an interest prohibited by this code of ethics and behavior
standards of conduct, or which involved the violation of a provision herein,
shall be officially reconsidered upon discovery, disclosure, or determination
of such interest or violation.
(Ord. 25-09, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 30.51 IMPLEMENTATION AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The code of ethics and conduct is intended to be self-enforcing and is
an expression of the standards of conduct for members expected by the village.
      (1)   This document shall be distributed to newly elected and appointed
public officers or employees.
      (2)   Public officials entering office shall sign a statement
acknowledging receipt of this code, and that he/she/they have read and
understood it.
      (3)   A copy of such statement when signed shall be filed with the
Village Clerk.
   (B)   Any investigation and recommendation for discipline of an employee
shall be subject to the provisions of any applicable collective bargaining
agreement.
2025 S-12
   (C)   This code shall be periodically reviewed by the Village Board of
Trustees, and updated as necessary or advisable from time to time.
   (D)   Primary and additional responsibility. The Village of South Roxana,
Illinois Code of Ethics and Behavior Conduct expresses standards of ethical
conduct expected for members of the Village of South Roxana Board of Trustees,
Boards and Commission. Public officials or employees themselves have the
primary responsibility to assure that ethical standards are understood and met,
and that the public can continue to have full confidence in the integrity of
government.
   (E)   Receipt. I affirm that I have received, and read and understand, the
Village of South Roxana, Illinois Code of Ethics and Behavior Standards of
Conduct for Elected and Appointed Officials.
(Ord. 25-09, passed 5-6-2025)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE BOARD AND OFFICIALS
Section
Board of Trustees
   
31.001   Meetings
General Provisions
   
31.020   Ordinances
   
31.021   Corporate seal
   
31.022   Elections
   
31.023   Municipal officers; regulations
   
31.024   Residency requirements
   
31.025   Bonds of village officers
   
31.026   Village offices consolidated
   
31.027   Contracts
   
31.028   Salaries; regulation
   
31.029   Miscellaneous provisions
   31.030   Remote attendance for elected officials
Mayor
   
31.040   Election
   
31.041   Vacancy
   
31.042   Supervisory powers
   
31.043   Appointment of officers
   
31.044   Removal of officers
   
31.045   Designation of officers' duties
   
31.046   Mayor Pro-Tem
   
31.047   Signature
   
31.048   Formal occasions
   
31.049   General duties
   
31.050   Release of prisoners
   
31.051   Business License Commissioner
   
31.052   Liquor Commissioner
   
31.053   Health Commissioner
   
31.054   Deciding vote; Mayor
Village Clerk
   
31.065   Office established; appointed
   
31.066   Board minutes; records
   
31.067   Delivery of papers to officers
   
31.068   Preparation of documents
   
31.069   Report of licenses
   
31.070   License plates
   
31.071   Administration of oaths
   
31.072   Outstanding bonds
   
31.073   Reports
   
31.074   Successor
   
31.075   Payments
   
31.076   Warrant register
   
31.077   Finance Committee
   
31.078   Submit appropriation to Village Board
   
31.079   Notification to persons elected or appointed
   
31.080   Other duties
   
31.081   Ethics Officer
Village Engineer
   
31.095   Appointment
   
31.096   Duties; salary
Village Attorney
   
31.105   Appointment
   
31.106   Duties
Village Prosecutor
   
31.115   Appointment
   
31.116   Duties
Village Administrator
   
31.120   Appointment
   
31.121   Duties; salary
   
31.122   Other duties
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 31.001 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The regular meetings of the Village Board of
Trustees shall be held once a month on the first Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. at the
Village Hall, unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   Parliamentary rules and procedures. The most recent edition of
"Robert's Rules Of Order" is the authoritative text on parliamentary rules and
procedures to be followed in all meetings and all matters of the governance of
the village, except as provided otherwise herein.
   (C)   Decisions of parliamentary usages. The President, or other presiding
officer, shall decide all points of parliamentary usages. Any member feeling
himself or herself aggrieved by any ruling of the President or presiding
officer may appeal to the Board of Trustees or Committee, and the Board of
Trustees or Committee shall decide the point without debate, by a majority vote
of the members present. If no appeal is taken, the decision of the President or
Chairman shall be conclusive.
   (D)   Voting. The President shall determine the seating arrangement of the
Village Board of Trustees and the sequence of voting of the Trustees at the
first regular meeting of the village in the month of May, and that will be the
order of voting which is to be followed for the remainder of the year.
   (E)   Compliance with state law. Where state common law, statutory
provision, or regulatory guidelines provide for parliamentary rules or
procedures to be followed in a manner inconsistent with this section, then that
state common law, statutory provision, or regulatory guideline shall take
precedence.
   (F)   Special and emergency meetings. The President or three Trustees may
call any special or emergency meeting of the Village Board.
   (G)   Rules for people addressing the Village Board. In order to secure the
rights of the residents of the village to fair and just representation before
their elected officials, and to guarantee order at public meetings of the
corporate authorities and public bodies of the village, the following rules are
established:
      (1)   Any person who seeks to address the corporate authorities or
members of a public body of the village during a public meeting, shall be
permitted to speak if they have signed up with the Village Clerk 24 hours in
advance of the Board meetings with their name and topic for discussion, and
then only upon recognition by the presiding officer, and such person shall
adhere to the following provisions:
         (a)   Each person addressing the corporate authorities or public body
of the village shall state his or her name.
         (b)   The Chair shall advise each person to speak that they shall be
granted no more than three minutes per meeting in order to address the
corporate authorities or public body of the village, unless such time is
extended by a majority of the Village Board, giving consideration to the
probable number of speakers and lateness of the hour. Speakers on the same
topic shall be admonished to avoid meeting. Any ruling by the presiding officer
may be overruled by a majority of the members of the Village Board present at
such public meeting.
         (c)   Personal attacks or insults shall not be permitted.
         (d)   Comments shall be directed to the Village Board as a whole.
         (e)   The following behavior by any person is prohibited during a
public meeting of the corporate authorities or any public body of the village:
            1.   Conduct in violation of any village ordinance, state or
federal law, or any rule or regulation implementing state or federal law;
            2.   Interruption of speakers; name calling; boisterous remarks;
            3.   Offensive use of abusive, obscene, profane, slanderous or
threatening language or gestures;
            4.   Acting or behaving in such an unreasonable manner as to alarm
or disturb another and to provoke a breach of the peace; and
            5.   Any other act designed to intimidate, threaten or harm
persons, or damage or destroy property.
      (2)   Members of the public, Village Board of Trustees, village
officials, spectators or participants shall not engage in audible conversation
which prohibits individuals from hearing and/or participating in a public
meeting, or disrupts the conduct of business by the corporate authorities or a
public body of the village, including, but not limited to, clapping, booing,
loud talking, interrupting the speaker and cell phone conversations.
      (3)   Members of the public may enter and leave the meeting room at any
time, provided such entrance or exit is made quietly and in an orderly fashion.
      (4)   Battery operated recording equipment is permitted at public
meetings provided the operation thereof is silent.
      (5)   At each public meeting, the presiding officer or majority of the
sitting Board shall enforce these provisions. The presiding officer may order a
police officer to remove an offender from the meeting room if the offender
continues to disrupt the meeting after a warning. Removed individuals may be
cited to Circuit Court for an ordinance violation.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 5-2-2017; Ord. 23-13, passed 1-2-2024)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.020 ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Attorney. It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to prepare the
ordinances as may be required by the Village Board.
   (B)   Introduced. When an ordinance is introduced, it shall be referred to
the proper committee unless the Board shall otherwise specifically direct. Upon
a majority vote of two-thirds of all Trustees, this rule may be suspended and
the ordinance may be read by title only.
   (C)   Passage by yeas and nays; record. The yeas and nays shall be taken
upon the passage of all ordinances, and on all propositions to create any
liability against the village, or for the expenditure or appropriation of its
money, and all other cases at the request of any member and entered on the
journal of its proceeding and the concurrence of a majority of all the members
elected in the Village Board shall be necessary for the passage of any such
ordinance or proposition; provided it shall require three-fourths of the
Trustees to sell any village property.
   (D)   Approval and veto. All ordinances passed by the Village Board shall,
before they take effect, be deposited in the office of the Village Clerk, and
if the Mayor approves thereof, he or she shall sign the same, and such as he or
she shall not approve, he or she shall return to the Village Board with his or
her objections thereto in writing at the next regular meeting of the Village
Board occurring no less than five days after the passage thereof. The veto may
extend to any one or more items or appropriations contained in any ordinance
making an appropriation, or to the entire ordinance; and in case the vote only
extends to a part of the ordinance, the residue thereof shall take effect and
be in force. However, in case the Mayor shall fail to return any ordinance with
his or her objections thereto by the time aforesaid, he or she shall be deemed
to have approved the ordinance and the same shall take effect accordingly.
   (E)   Reconsideration; passing over veto. Upon the return of any ordinance
by the Mayor, the vote by which the same has passed shall be reconsidered by
the Village Board, and if after the reconsideration, two-thirds of all the
members elected to the Village Board shall agree by yeas and nays to pass the
same, it shall go into effect, notwithstanding the Mayor may refuse to approve
thereof. The vote to pass the same over the Mayor's veto shall be taken by yeas
and nays and entered in the Journal of Minutes.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-11-18) (1994 Code, § 1-2-15)
§ 31.021 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The corporate seal of the village shall be the same as that heretofore
provided and used by the village. It shall be circular in form with the words,
"Village of South Roxana, Madison County, Illinois" in the exterior circle, and
the words, "Corporate Seal, March 10, 1967" in the center.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 2-2-12)
   (B)   The corporate seal shall be used as such seal in all cases provided
for by law or by the ordinances of the village and in all other cases in which,
by law and custom, it is usual and necessary for the corporation to use a seal.
The seal shall be and remain with the Village Clerk who shall be the legal
custodian.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-10-7) (1994 Code, § 1-2-18)
§ 31.022 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Election procedure. The provisions of Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 3-2-
1 et seq., and Ch. 46 concerning municipal elections shall govern the conduct
of the village elections.
   (B)   Inauguration. The inauguration of newly elected village officials
shall occur at the first regular or special meeting of the Village Board in the
month of May following the consolidated election in April.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-19)
§ 31.023 MUNICIPAL OFFICERS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Effect. The provisions of this division shall apply alike to all
officers and employees of the village, regardless of the time of creation of
the office or position or the time of the appointment of the officer or
employee.
   (B)   Bond. Every officer and employee shall, if required by the Village
Board, upon entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in the
amount and with sureties as may be determined by the Board, conditioned upon
the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or position.
   (C)   Appointment. At the first meeting of May in each year, or as soon
thereafter as possible, there shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice
and consent of the Village Board, all appointive village officers who shall
hold their several offices for the term of one year and until their successors
are appointed and qualified. Note: Unless a specific ordinance creates the
office, the person filling the position is not an officer, but an employee and
is governed by a different set of rules. Elected municipal officials cannot
hold any other office in the municipality while holding their elective office.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 3-4-3, 3-4-15, 3-7-2; Ch. 102, § 2)
   (D)   Offices vacated by removal. Any officer of the municipality who leaves
the municipality with the intention of permanently residing outside the limits
thereof shall be deemed to have vacated his or her office.
   (E)   Leaves of absence. Any officer desiring to be temporarily absent from
the municipality shall apply to the Mayor for a leave of absence which may, in
the discretion of the Mayor, be granted in writing for any time, and when
granted, shall be filed with the Clerk.
   (F)   Books delivered to successor. Every officer shall, upon going out of
office, deliver to his or her successor, all books, papers, furniture and other
things appertaining to the office, and which are the property of the village.
Within five days after notification and request, any person who has been an
officer of a municipality is required to deliver to his or her successor in
office, all property, books and effects in his or her possession belonging to
the municipality or pertaining to the office he or she has held. Upon his or
her refusal to do so, he or she shall be liable for all damages caused thereby,
and shall, upon conviction, be penalized according to the provisions of §
10.99.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-14-2)
   (G)   Books open to inspection. Every officer shall at all times, when
required, submit the books and papers of his or her office to the inspection of
the Mayor, or any committee or member of the Board.
   (H)   Fees. No officer of the municipality shall be entitled to charge or
receive any fees as against the village.
   (I)   Report of fees. All officers of the village entitled to receive fees
shall keep a correct account thereof and make a report thereof, under oath, to
the Village Board prior to the regular meeting of each month. In the report,
they shall specify from whom the fees were received, for what service, and when
received. All fees received shall be paid over into the Village Treasury.
   (J)   Other rules and regulations. Every officer of the village shall
perform such other duties and be subject to such other rules and regulations as
the Board may provide by law.
   (K)   Conservators of peace. The Mayor, Trustees and police officers are
designated as conservators of the peace with power to make arrests as provided
by law.
   (L)   Oath. Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
municipal officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe to
the following oath: "I, ______________, do solemnly swear that I will support
the constitution of the United States and the constitution of the State of
Illinois and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
________________, according to the best of my ability."
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 3-9-4, 3-14-3)
(1994 Code, § 1-2-20)
§ 31.024 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall be eligible to any municipal office unless he or she is a
qualified elector of the municipality and has resided therein at least one year
next preceding his or her election or appointment. However, these requirements
shall not apply to the municipal engineer, municipal attorney or other officers
who require technical training or knowledge. However, no person shall be
eligible to any municipal office who is a defaulter to the municipality.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-14-1) (1994 Code, § 1-2-21)
§ 31.025 BONDS OF VILLAGE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Amount. Bonds of village officers required under Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch.
24, § 3-14-3 shall be executed in the following penal sums:
 
Mayor                                                $3,500
Village Treasurer                                    $7,500
Village Clerk                                        $3,000
Water Office Clerk                                   $3,000
Police officers (includes acting commanding officer) $1,000
Police Clerk                                         $1,000
 
   (B)   Premium payment by village. The surety bonds required by law shall be
paid by the village.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 103, § 16)
   (C)   Surety. The Village Board shall not receive or approve any bond or
security whereon the name of the Village Board, any one of the Trustees, or any
elected or appointed officer of the village appear as bondsperson or security.
If, by mistake, a bond containing the name of any such officer is approved by
the Village Board, or if any bondsperson, after becoming such is elected or
appointed to any village office, this section shall not act as a release of any
such obligation incurred.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-22)
§ 31.026 VILLAGE OFFICES CONSOLIDATED.
   (A)   The Village Board may, from time to time by law, impose upon any
officer filling any office created by the ordinances of the village, any such
other or further duties as shall be consistent with the laws of this state, and
may consolidate any two or more of the offices and impose the duties thereof
upon any other officer and may make any such regulations respecting the offices
as shall be consistent with the laws of this state.
   (B)   In case the Village Board consolidates any offices created by it, the
person performing the duties of the offices so consolidated shall not be
entitled on account thereof to receive any salary or compensation which he or
she would not have been entitled to receive if the consolidation had not taken
place.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-23)
§ 31.027 CONTRACTS.
   (A)   All contracts for purchases by the village shall be in compliance with
the statutes of the state.
   (B)   Any work or public improvement which is not to be paid for in whole or
in part by special assessment or by special taxation when the expense thereof
will exceed $4,000 shall be constructed either:
      (1)   By a contract let to the lowest responsible bidder after
advertising for bids in the manner prescribed by ordinance and statutes, except
that any such contract may be entered into by the proper officers without
advertising for bids if authorized by a vote of two-thirds of all Trustees then
holding office; or
      (2)   If authorized by a vote of two-thirds of all the Trustees or Board
members then holding office, the Superintendent shall supervise and cause to be
carried out the construction of the work or other public improvement and shall
employ exclusively for the performance of all manual labor therein, laborers or
artisans whom the municipality shall pay by the day or hour; and all material
of the value of $4,000 and upward used in the construction of the work or the
public improvement shall be purchased by contract let to the lowest responsible
bidder in the manner prescribed by the code of the village. However, nothing
contained in this chapter shall apply to any contract with the village with the
federal government or agents thereof.
   (C)   The lowest responsible bidder does not mean the lowest bidder
financially only, but shall mean the bidder who, by experience and other
qualifications is deemed most capable of performing the work required in a
satisfactory manner.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 8-9-1 and 8-9-2) (1994 Code, § 1-2-24)
§ 31.028 SALARIES; REGULATION.
   (A)   Elected. No salary or compensation of any elected municipal officer
who is elected for a definite term of office shall be increased or diminished
during that term.
   (B)   Appointed. No salary or compensation of any appointed official who is
appointed for a definite term of office shall be decreased during the term, but
may be increased.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 3-13-1 et seq.) (1994 Code, § 1-2-25)
Editor's note:
   The salary of appointed officials and employees may be established in the
appropriation ordinance. The salary of elected officials must be established in
an ordinance other than the appropriation ordinance.
§ 31.029 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Claims.
      (1)   Presentation. All claims against the village for goods purchased,
damaged or originating in any other way, except for claims for salaries and
other allowances that are fixed by ordinance shall be presented on or before
the tenth day of each month to the Village Clerk. All the claims must be in
writing and items shall be specified.
      (2)   Exception. This does not prohibit the Village Board from passing on
any claims not previously presented to the Village Clerk if, in the opinion of
the Board, justice to the claimant requires it.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-26)
   (B)   Fiscal year. The fiscal year of the village shall begin on May 1 and
end on the following April 30.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2(5)) (1994 Code, § 1-2-27)
   (C)   Municipal year.
      (1)   The municipal year shall commence on May 1 and shall end on the
following April 30.
      (2)   No appointments shall be made during the last month of the
municipal year in the year of a mayoral election.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-28)
   (D)   Expenses; reimbursement. Any municipal officer or employee is entitled
to reimbursement for any reasonable actual expenses incurred by him or her in
the performance of his or her duties.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-29)
   (E)   Village records. All official records, including the village corporate
seal, shall be kept in the Village Hall.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-30)
   (F)   Pecuniary interests in contracts prohibited. No municipal officer
shall be interested, directly or indirectly in any contract, work or business
which:
      (1)   Belongs to the municipality;
      (2)   Is sold for taxes or assessments; or
      (3)   Is sold by virtue of legal process at the suit of the municipality.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-31)
   (G)   Federal old age and survivor's insurance system.
      (1)   Eligible employees shall mean all employees of the village,
eligible under the Federal Act, except persons elected to office by popular
election and also the Village Treasurer and Village Attorney.
      (2)   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose
provided in sections hereof are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and
at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agency in such amounts and at
such times as are designated by state laws or regulations.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-32)
   (H)   Smoking prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall smoke or engage in the act of smoking upon or
within the indoor premises, its offices or rooms, of the South Roxana Village
Hall.
      (2)   The term  SMOKE and the phrase ACT OF SMOKING shall be defined for
the purposes of this section, as the act of inhaling the smoke from or
possessing a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe or any other form of tobacco or
similar substance which is lighted, burned or ignited for the purpose of
consuming or inhaling the smoke therefrom.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-33) (Ord. 94-02, passed 3-10-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-50-15(B)
§ 31.030 REMOTE ATTENDANCE FOR ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. Refers to the governing body of the Village of South Roxana,
Illinois.
      ELECTED OFFICIALS. Refers to the individuals elected to serve on the
Board.
      REMOTE ATTENDANCE. Refers to the ability of elected officials to
participate in Board meetings through electronic means, such as
videoconferencing or teleconferencing.
   (B)   Remote attendance authorization. Elected officials of the Village of
South Roxana, Illinois, shall be authorized to attend Board meetings remotely
if they are unable to physically attend due to emergency medical situations or
out-of-town business obligations.
   (C)   Remote attendance procedures.
      (1)   Elected officials seeking to attend a board meeting remotely must
notify the Village Clerk or the Board President at least 24 hours prior to the
scheduled meeting.
      (2)   The notification should include the reason for the remote
attendance request, such as emergency medical condition or business travel.
      (3)   The Village Clerk or the Board President shall ensure that the
necessary arrangements are made to facilitate the elected official's remote
attendance, including providing access to relevant meeting materials and
ensuring the availability of suitable technology for communication.
      (4)   The elected official attending remotely shall be responsible for
ensuring the security and confidentiality of any communication technology used
and shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations.
   (D)   Quorum and voting.
      (1)   An elected official attending a Board meeting remotely shall be
counted towards establishing a quorum.
      (2)   Remote attendance shall enable elected officials to participate
fully in the meeting, including engaging in discussions and voting on matters
before the Board.
      (3)   Voting by remote attendees shall be conducted in a manner that
ensures transparency and accuracy. The elected official shall be given an
opportunity to cast their vote in a manner consistent with the established
voting procedures of the Board.
   (E)   Temporary suspension of remote attendance.
      (1)   The Village Board reserves the right to temporarily suspend remote
attendance for elected officials if it is deemed necessary due to exceptional
circumstances or if remote attendance hinders the effective conduct of the
meeting.
      (2)   The decision to suspend remote attendance shall be made by a
majority vote of the Board, with proper notice provided to all elected
officials affected.
   (F)   Preferred in-person attendance.
      (1)   While remote attendance is authorized for elected officials under
certain circumstances, it is strongly encouraged that all elected officials
make every effort to attend board meetings in person.
      (2)   Remote call-in for meetings should be utilized as a last resort
when attendance in person is not feasible due to emergency medical situations
or out-of-town business obligations.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 7-5-2023)
MAYOR
§ 31.040 ELECTION.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve until his or
her successor is elected and has qualified.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-5-1) (1994 Code, § 1-2-35)
§ 31.041 VACANCY.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor and there remains an
unexpired portion of the term of at least 28 months and the vacancy occurs at
least 130 days before the general municipal election next scheduled under the
general election law, the vacancy shall be filled at that general municipal
election. The Village Board shall elect one of its members "Acting Mayor" who
shall perform the duties and possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor
until a successor to fill the vacancy has been elected and has qualified.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-4-6) (1994 Code, § 1-2-36)
§ 31.042 SUPERVISORY POWERS.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the village, shall preside
over the meetings of the Board, and shall perform such duties as may be
required of him or her by statute or law. He or she shall have supervision over
all of the executive officers and employees of the village and shall have the
power and authority to inspect all books and records pertaining to village
affairs and kept by any officer or employee of the village at any reasonable
time.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 3-11-6 and 3-11-3) (1994 Code, § 1-2-37)
§ 31.043 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   At the first meeting in May of each year, the Mayor shall appoint, by and
with the advice and consent of the Village Board, all officers of the village
for a one-year term, whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided
for, and the officers shall hold their offices until the first meeting in May
of the following year and until their respective successors are appointed and
qualified. Any vacancy occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in the
same manner. Those officers include, but are not limited to, the Police Chief,
Building Inspector, Electrical Inspector and Zoning Administrator.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 3-7-2, 3-13-10, 3-14-2) (1994 Code, § 1-2-38)
(Ord. 05-04, passed 6-7-2005; Ord. 14-01, passed 3-4-2014; Ord. 15-01, passed
2-17-2015)
§ 31.044 REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the power to remove any officer appointed by him
or her on any formal charge whenever he or she is of the opinion that the
interests of the village demand the removal. He or she shall report the reasons
for the removal to the Board at a meeting to be held not less than five days,
nor more than ten days after the removal.
   (B)   If the Mayor shall fail or refuse to file with the Clerk a statement
of the reasons for the removal, or if the Board, by a two-thirds vote of all
its members authorized by law to be elected by yeas and nays to be entered upon
its record, disapprove of the removal, the officer shall thereupon become
restored to the office from which he or she was removed, but he or she shall
give a new bond and take a new oath of office. No officer shall be removed a
second time for the same offense.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 3-11-1 and 3-12-2) (1994 Code, § 1-2-39)
§ 31.045 DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS' DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the village, this dispute shall be settled by the Mayor,
after consultation with the Village Attorney; and the Mayor shall have the
power to delegate to any appointive officer, any duty which is to be performed
when no specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-40)
§ 31.046 MAYOR PRO-TEM.
   (A)   During a temporary absence or disability of the Mayor which
incapacitates him or her from the performance of his or her duties, but does
not create a vacancy in the office, the Mayor shall appoint, and if he or she
cannot, the Trustees shall appoint one of its members to act as Mayor Pro-tem.
   (B)   The Mayor Pro-tem, during this absence or disability, shall perform
his or her duties and possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor. The Mayor
may appoint an officer to administer the affairs of the village with the advice
and consent of the Village Board whenever the Village Board considers it
necessary and expedient.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-41)
§ 31.047 SIGNATURE.
   The Mayor shall sign all village warrants, commissions, permits and licenses
granted by authority of the Board, except as otherwise provided and such other
acts and deeds as law or ordinance may require his or her official signature.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-42)
§ 31.048 FORMAL OCCASIONS.
   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the village on formal occasions and
receptions, but in his or her absence or inability to attend any such function,
the Mayor may select any other village officer to so act.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-43)
§ 31.049 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall perform all the duties which are prescribed by law, and
shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch 24, §§ 3-11-4 and 3-11-6) (1994 Code, § 1-2-44)
§ 31.050 RELEASE OF PRISONERS.
   The Mayor may release any person imprisoned for violation of any village
ordinance and shall report the release with reasons therefor to the Trustees at
their first meeting thereafter.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-2) (1994 Code, § 1-2-45)
§ 31.051 BUSINESS LICENSE COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as License Commissioner to issue and revoke
any and all business licenses as prescribed by law.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-46)
§ 31.052 LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as Liquor Commissioner with all the powers to
license and/or revoke any village liquor license, according to state and
village laws.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-47)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-2
§ 31.053 HEALTH COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby declared to be Health Commissioner with all powers to
abate and remove all nuisances or health hazards within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the village authority as prescribed by law.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-48)
§ 31.054 DECIDING VOTE; MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Village Board. He or
she shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion, except:
      (1)   Where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie;
      (2)   Where one-half of the Trustees elected have voted in favor of an
ordinance, resolution or motion, even though there is no tie; or
      (3)   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
is required by the Illinois Compiled Statutes to adopt an ordinance, resolution
or motion.
   (B)   In each instance specified, the Mayor shall vote. Nothing in this
section shall deprive an acting Mayor or Mayor Pro-Tem from voting in his or
her capacity as Trustee, but he or she shall not be entitled to another vote in
his or her capacity as Acting Mayor or Mayor Pro-Tem.
(See ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3.1-35-35 and 3.1-40-30) (1994 Code, § 1-2-49)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 31.065 OFFICE ESTABLISHED ; APPOINTED .
   There is hereby established the Office of Village Clerk who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, by and with the consent of the Village Board.
(1994 Code, §1-2-52) (Ord. 93-10, passed 5-27-1993; Ord. 20-05, passed 1-7-
2020)
§ 31.066 BOARD MINUTES; RECORDS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Village Board and
shall keep in a suitable book to be styled, "The Journal of the Village Board",
a full and faithful record of its proceedings.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall record and properly index in a book kept for
that purpose, all ordinances passed by the Village Board and at the foot of the
record of each ordinance so recorded, he or she shall make a memorandum of the
date of the passage, when published, and a memorandum of the publication of the
ordinance.
   (C)   He or she shall also record in proper books for the purpose, all
official bonds and note upon each bond so recorded, when the same was entered
of record and the book and pages where recorded.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, 3-10-7) (1994 Code, § 1-2-53)
§ 31.067 DELIVERY OF PAPERS TO OFFICERS.
   The Clerk shall deliver to the several committees of the Village Board and
to the officers of this village, all petitions, communications, reports and
resolutions, orders, claims and other papers referred to those committees or
officers by the Board on demand therefor. He or she shall also, without delay,
deliver to the Mayor, all ordinances or resolutions, orders and claims in his
or her charge which may require to be approved or otherwise acted upon by the
Mayor.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-10-8) (1994 Code, § 1-2-54)
§ 31.068 PREPARATION OF DOCUMENTS.
   The Clerk shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits and other
official documents required to be issued by him or her under this code and
shall attest the same with the corporate seal, and he or she shall, in like
manner, attest all deeds for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by this
village.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-55)
§ 31.069 REPORT OF LICENSES.
   The Clerk shall report to the Village Board at its regular meeting each
month and more often if the Board so requires the data contained in his or her
license register with respect to licenses issued during the previous month.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-56)
§ 31.070 LICENSE PLATES.
   In all cases where the village requires a license to be obtained for the
purpose of engaging in or carrying on any business or occupation, and the
licensee is required to obtain from the Clerk, plates, tags or stickers, it
shall be the duty of the Clerk to deliver the plates, tags or stickers to the
person paying the license fee.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-57)
§ 31.071 ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS.
   The Clerk shall have the power to administer oaths or affirmations for all
lawful purposes.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-9-3) (1994 Code, § 1-2-58)
§ 31.072 OUTSTANDING BONDS.
   The Clerk shall keep in his or her office in a book or books kept expressly
for that purpose, a correct list of all the outstanding bonds of the village,
showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom the bonds are issued;
and when the village bonds are issued or purchased or paid or cancelled, the
book or books shall show the fact; and in his or her annual report, the Clerk
shall describe particularly the bonds sold during the year and the terms of
sale, with each and every item of expense thereof.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-23) (1994 Code, § 1-2-59)
§ 31.073 REPORTS.
   The Clerk shall, on or before the regular meeting in each month, make out
and submit to the Village Board a statement or report in writing of all the
moneys received and warrants drawn by him or her during the preceding month,
showing therein from or what sources and on what account moneys were received,
and for what purposes and on what account the warrants were drawn or paid.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-60)
§ 31.074 SUCCESSOR.
   The Village Clerk shall carefully preserve in his or her office, all books,
records, papers, maps and effects of every detail and description belonging to
the village or pertaining to his or her office, and not in actual use and
possession of other village officers; and upon the expiration of his or her
official term, he or she shall deliver all the books, records, papers and
effects to his or her successor in office.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-61)
§ 31.075 PAYMENTS.
   The Clerk shall prepare weekly an itemized list of all moneys received and
shall deliver a copy of the same to the Village Treasurer and shall also pay
over to the Treasurer, all moneys received by him or her and take a receipt
therefor.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-62)
§ 31.076 WARRANT REGISTER.
   The Clerk shall keep an accurate register of warrants drawn upon the
Treasury, specifying the date, to whom payable, the amount, and the particular
fund or appropriation to which the same is chargeable.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24; § 8-1-8) (1994 Code, § 1-2-63)
§ 31.077 FINANCE COMMITTEE.
   The Clerk shall, under the direction of the Budget Officer and the Finance
Committee, keep an open and complete set of books in which, among other things,
shall be set forth the appropriations of the fiscal year for which each
distinct object and branch of expenditures, and also the receipts from each and
every source of revenue so far as he or she can ascertain the same.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-64)
§ 31.078 SUBMIT APPROPRIATION TO VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   The Clerk shall, on or before May 15 in each year, and before the
annual appropriations to be made by the Village Board, submit to the Village
Board a report of his or her estimates as nearly as may be of monies necessary
to defray the expenses of the corporation during the current fiscal year.
   (B)   He or she shall, in the report, classify the different objects and
branches of expenditures, giving as nearly as may be the amount required for
each; and for the purpose of making such a report, he or she is hereby
authorized to require of all officers, their statement of the condition and
expenses of their respective offices or departments with any proposed
improvements, and the probable expense thereof, all contracts made and
unfinished and the amount of any and all unexpended appropriations of the
preceding year.
   (C)   He or she shall, in the report, show the aggregate income of the
preceding fiscal year, from all sources, the amount of liabilities outstanding
upon which interest is to be paid, the bonds and debts payable during the year,
when due, and when payable; and in the report, he or she shall give such other
information to the Village Board as he or she may deem necessary to the end
that the Village Board may fully understand the money exigencies and demands
upon the corporation for the current year.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-65)
§ 31.079 NOTIFICATION TO PERSONS ELECTED OR APPOINTED.
   (A)   The Clerk, within five days after the result of an election is
declared or an appointment is made, shall notify all persons elected or
appointed to office of their election or appointment.
   (B)   The office becomes vacant unless the person elected or appointed
qualifies within ten days after the notice.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-2-6) (1994 Code, § 1-2-66)
§ 31.080 OTHER DUTIES.
   In addition to the foregoing duties, the Clerk shall perform all such other
duties pertaining to his or her office as are or may be imposed upon him or her
by law or resolution or ordinance of the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-67)
§ 31.081 ETHICS OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment of Ethics Officer. The Village Clerk of the Village of
South Roxana is hereby designated as the Ethics Officer for the village. The
Ethics Officer shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
      (1)   To provide officers and employees of the village with guidance on
the requirements of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, including the
prohibited political activities and gift ban provisions.
      (2)   To review statements of economic interest and disclosure forms as
required by law, and to ensure their proper filing and compliance with
applicable laws.
      (3)   To investigate, in accordance with the law, complaints of
violations of the ethical standards set forth in the Act and to recommend
corrective action or disciplinary measures when necessary.
      (4)   To provide training and educational materials on ethics to all
officers and employees of the village as required by the Act or village
policies.
      (5)   To serve as the point of contact for any questions or concerns
regarding ethical conduct within the village government.
   (B)   Compliance with the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act. The
Village of South Roxana hereby reaffirms its compliance with the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430), as outlined
in Village Ordinance No. 04-07, passed on July 20, 2004, and as may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 24-13, passed 10-1-2024)
VILLAGE ENGINEER
§ 31.095 APPOINTMENT.
   With the advice and consent of the Village Board, the Mayor may appoint an
Engineer for the village, who shall serve for the term of the Mayor or for the
period not exceeding the term of the Mayor as may be designated by the Mayor
and Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-92)
§ 31.096 DUTIES; SALARY.
   The Village Engineer shall make and submit plans, estimates and
specifications for any public work which may be proposed or ordered by the
Village Board. He or she shall also examine all public works under his or her
charge and see that the plans, estimates and specifications for the same are
properly executed. He or she shall also receive a salary as established in the
annual budget.
(1994 Code, § 1-2-93)
VILLAGE ATTORNEY
§ 31.105 APPOINTMENT.
   The Village Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the
consent of the Village Board. The Village Attorney shall be licensed to
practice law in the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 19-12, passed 8-6-2019)
§ 31.106 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to counsel and advise the
Village Board, the Mayor and heads of departments; to prepare or revise
ordinances when so requested by the Board or any committee thereof; to prepare
or review for execution all contracts and agreements of which the village is a
party and shall approve as to form all such legal instruments; to give legal
opinions upon any legal matter or question submitted by the Board or any
officer of the Village; and to assist the Village Prosecutor in the prosecution
or defense of all actions in courts of record or all courts of appeal, when
necessary.
(Ord. 19-12, passed 8-6-2019)
VILLAGE PROSECUTOR
§ 31.115 APPOINTMENT.
   The Village Prosecutor shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the
consent of the Village Board. The Village Prosecutor shall be licensed to
practice law in the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 19-12, passed 8-6-2019)
§ 31.116 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Prosecutor to prosecute all actions for
violation of the provisions of this code. He or she shall also, when requested,
assist the Village Attorney in the performance of his and her duties as
outlined in §
31.106.
(Ord. 19-12, passed 8-6-2019)
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.120 APPOINTMENT.
   With the advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees, the Mayor may
appoint a Village Administrator for the village, who shall serve for the terms
of the Mayor or for the period not exceeding the term of the Mayor as may be
designated by the Mayor and Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 25-15, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 31.121 DUTIES; SALARY.
   The Village Administrator shall be the Mayor's designee for supervising
village staff, overseeing day-to-day operations, coordinating internal
administrative matters and intergovernmental matters. The Village Administrator
shall perform all internal inquiries and staff oversight unless otherwise
authorized by the Mayor or within these code of ordinances and state law. The
Village Administrator shall also receive a salary as established by the Mayor
and Board of Trustees in accordance with the annual budget.
(Ord. 25-15, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 31.122 OTHER DUTIES.
   In addition to the foregoing duties, the Village Administrator shall perform
all such other duties pertaining to his or her office as are or may be imposed
upon him or her by law or resolution or ordinance of the Village Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 25-15, passed 5-6-2025)
CHAPTER 32: ANNEXATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Pre-annexation agreements
   
32.02   Binding on village
   
32.03   Prohibitive waivers
§ 32.01 PRE-ANNEXATION AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor, subject to approval of the Village Board, may enter into
pre-annexation agreements with the owner or owners of real estate which is
expected or anticipated to be annexed into the village.
   (B)   The pre-annexation agreements may include the following terms:
      (1)   Waivers or modifications of water and sewer tap-on fees and
requirements as established by the village code or ordinance at the time the
agreements are executed; provided that the agreements may not waive or modify
any water or sewer user rates/fees in effect from time to time;
      (2)   Waivers or modifications of any other fees, taxes, restrictions,
licenses, requirements or other matters which are established solely by village
codes or ordinances and/or solely under the control of the village authorities
and which are in effect at the time of execution of the agreements and/or in
the future;
      (3)   Be made contingent upon certain zoning changes and other zoning
requirements or conditions;
      (4)   Special provisions regarding parking areas or lots, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks or traffic control; and
      (5)   Special provisions regarding other village-supplied services,
except that user fees or rates may not be reduced from those imposed upon other
property owners of the same classification within the village.
(1994 Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 32.02 BINDING ON VILLAGE.
   All the pre-annexation agreements, upon approval of the Village Board, shall
be binding upon any subsequent village administration.
(1994 Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 32.03 PROHIBITIVE WAIVERS.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such pre-annexation agreement shall
include any waivers modification or relaxation of any statute, ordinance or
regulation of any federal, state, county, village or other governmental body or
agency dealing with building or health codes or otherwise designed to protect
and promote the public health, safety or welfare.
(1994 Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. 87-8, passed 6-11-1987)
CHAPTER 33: PLAN COMMISSION
Section
   
33.01   Established
   
33.02   Membership
   
33.03   Term of office
   
33.04   Procedure
   
33.05   Powers and duties
   
33.06   Land subdivision; re-subdivision; official map
   
33.07   Improvements
   
33.08   Further purposes
   
33.09   Expenditures
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHED.
   A Plan Commission is hereby created under authority of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§§ 11-12-4 through 11-12-12.
(1994 Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 33.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Plan Commission shall consist of seven members; those members to be
residents of the village, appointed by the Mayor on the basis of their
particular fitness for their duty on the Plan Commission and subject to the
approval of the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 5-1-2)
§ 33.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The members shall serve for a period of four years. Vacancies shall be
filled by appointment for the unexpired term only.
   (B)   All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except
that if the Village Board deems it advisable, they may receive compensation as
provided by the Village Board by appropriation.
(1994 Code, § 5-1-3)
§ 33.04 PROCEDURE.
   The Plan Commission shall elect such officers as it may deem necessary and
adopt rules and regulations of organization and procedure consistent with the
village code and state law. The Commission shall keep written records of its
proceedings. It shall be open at all times for and to the inspection of the
public, and the Commission shall file an annual report with the Mayor and
Village Board, setting forth its transactions and recommendations.
(1994 Code, § 5-1-4)
§ 33.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Plan Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board a comprehensive plan for
the present and future development or redevelopment of the village and
contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half miles beyond
the corporate limits of the village and not included in any other municipality.
The plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional
parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan or
part thereof of the village. The plan shall be advisory except as to such part
thereof as has been implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the Village
Board. All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption with
the County Recorder of Deeds, and filing of the plan and ordinances with the
Village Clerk shall be complied with as provided for by law. To provide for the
health, safety, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants of the village and
contiguous territory, the plan or plans shall establish reasonable standards of
design for subdivisions and for resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas
subject to redevelopment in respect to public improvements as herein defined
and shall establish reasonable requirements governing the location, width,
course and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public
service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage
collection and treatment. The requirements specified herein shall become
regulatory only when adopted by law;
   (B)   To designate land suitable for annexation to the village and the
recommended zoning classification for the land upon annexation;
   (C)   To recommend to the Village Board, from time to time, such changes in
the comprehensive plan or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary;
   (D)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board, from time to time,
plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance to the
official comprehensive plan;
   (E)   To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan or parts
thereof, to further the making of the improvements and generally, to promote
the realization of the official comprehensive plan;
   (F)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
   (G)   To cooperate with municipal or regional plan commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local plan program and to assure harmonious
and integrated planning for the area subject to approval of the Village Board;
and
   (H)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of an act of the General Assembly of the state, as may be conferred
by the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 5-1-5)
§ 33.06 LAND SUBDIVISION; RE-SUBDIVISION; OFFICIAL MAP.
   At any time or times before or after the formal adoption of the official
comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may be
designated by ordinance, which may consist of the whole area included within
the official comprehensive plan or one or more geographical or functional parts
and may include all or any part of the contiguous unincorporated area within
one and one-half miles from the corporate limits of the village. All
requirements for public hearing, filing notice of adoption with the County
Recorder of Deeds and filing of the plan and ordinances, including the official
map with the Clerk shall be complied with as provided for by law. No map or
plat of any subdivision or re-subdivision presented for record affecting land
within the corporate limits of the village or within contiguous territory which
is not more than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits shall be
entitled to record or shall be valid unless the subdivision shown thereon
provides for standards of design and standards governing streets, alleys,
public ways, ways for public service facilities, street lights, public grounds,
size of lots to be used for residential purposes and distribution, sanitary
sewers and sewage collection and treatment in conformity with the applicable
requirements of the code, including the official map.
(1994 Code, § 5-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-12
§ 33.07 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Village Clerk shall furnish the Plan Commission for its consideration, a
copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements of any
nature. The Plan Commission may report in relation thereto, if it deems a
report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 5-1-7)
§ 33.08 FURTHER PURPOSES.
   The Commission shall recommend the boundaries of districts for land use and
shall recommend regulations to the corporate authorities for the following:
   (A)   To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter to be
erected;
   (B)   To establish, regulate and limit the building or setback lines on or
along the street, traffic way, drive, parkway or storm or flood water runoff
channel or basin;
   (C)   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces, within and surrounding the
buildings;
   (D)   To classify, regulate and restrict the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified industrial,
business, residential and other uses;
   (E)   To divide the entire municipality into districts of such number,
shape, area and of such different classes (according to use of land and
buildings, height and bulk of buildings, intensity of the use of lot area, area
of open spaces or other classification), as may be deemed best suited to carry
out the purpose of this section;
   (F)   To fix standards to which buildings or structures therein shall
conform;
   (G)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of the districts; and
   (H)   To prevent additions to and alteration or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed under this section.
(1994 Code, § 5-1-8)
§ 33.09 EXPENDITURES.
   Expenditures of the Commission shall be at the discretion of the Village
Board and if the Commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical advice
or services, it shall be done upon authority of the Village Board and
appropriations by the Village Board therefor.
(1994 Code, § 5-1-9)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Civil Emergency
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Declaration of emergency
   
34.03   Curfew
   
34.04   Authority of Mayor to issue orders
   
34.05   Effectiveness
   
34.06   Notification
Police Department
   
34.20   Established
   
34.21   Office of Chief created
   
34.22   Duties of Chief
   
34.23   Police patrol officers
   
34.24   Mutual aid contract
   
34.25   Legal process
   
34.26   Call for assistance
   
34.27   Aiding Fire Department
   
34.28   Failure to perform
   
34.29   Aiding in escape
   
34.30   Use of intoxicating liquor
   
34.31   Witness fees
   
34.32   Rules and regulations
   
34.33   Stolen property
   
34.34   Part-time police
   
34.35   Bail processing fee
Auxiliary Police
   
34.45   Appointment
   
34.46   Severable membership
   
34.47   Powers and duties
   
34.48   Firearms
   
34.49   Training
   
34.50   Compensation
   
34.51   Chain of command
   
34.52   Expenses
   
34.53   Badges and patches
   
34.54   Multiple membership
Code Enforcement Officer
   
34.60   Establishment and duties
   
34.61   Authority and compensation
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency (ESDA)
   
34.65   Establishment
   
34.66   Coordinator
   
34.67   Functions
   
34.68   Service as mobile support team
   
34.69   Agreements with other political subdivisions
   
34.70   Emergency action
   
34.71   Compensation
   
34.72   Reimbursement by state
   
34.73   Purchases and expenditures
   
34.74   Oath
   
34.75   Office; appropriation; levy of taxes
Key Lock Boxes
   
34.85   Knox Box Ordinance
CIVIL EMERGENCY
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any power to execute by three or more persons acting
together without authority of law; or
      (2)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village,
excepting officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated
to duty with reference to the civil emergency.
(1994 Code, § 30-1-1)
§ 34.02 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever an emergency as defined in §
34.01 above exists, the Mayor shall declare the existence by means of a written
declaration, setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency.
(1994 Code, § 30-1-2)
§ 34.03 CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor, he or she may order a
general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village or to the
village as a whole, as he or she deems advisable, and applicable during such
hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the
public safety and welfare.
(1994 Code, § 30-1-3)
§ 34.04 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR TO ISSUE ORDERS.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor of the village may
also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the
following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away of
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever; and
   (E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(1994 Code, § 30-1-4)
§ 34.05 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of 48
hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the Mayor indicating that
the civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor shall have the power to re-
proclaim the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each 48-hour period
during the time the civil emergency exists.
(1994 Code, § 30-1-5)
§ 34.06 NOTIFICATION.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Mayor shall notify the
news media situated within the village and shall cause three copies of the
proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the
following places:
   (A)   Village Hall;
   (B)   Post office; and
   (C)   County courthouse.
(1994 Code, § 30-1-6)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.20 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Police Department, an executive department
of the village. The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and
full-time or part-time police officers, who shall serve on the days and times
designated by the Mayor, Chief of Police or Police Committee.
   (B)   The Mayor and Village Board of Trustees shall have the right to
appoint additional part-time members from time to time. The members of the
Police Department or employees of the village and, except as hereinafter
provided, shall serve from the date of their appointment until further order of
the Mayor and Village Board of Trustees.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-1)
§ 34.21 OFFICE OF CHIEF CREATED.
   There is hereby established the office of Chief of Police. The Chief shall
be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Board for
a four-year term. The first term shall begin on the date of the first regularly
scheduled meeting in May, 2005 and shall extend through April 30, 2009.
Subsequent four-year terms shall begin on May 1 and end on April 30. Upon a
vacancy, the President may appoint a successor to complete a term.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-2) (Ord. 05-05, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 34.22 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall keep records and make reports concerning the
activities of his or her Department as may be required.
   (B)   The Chief shall be responsible for the performance of the Police
Department, of all its functions, and all persons who are members of the
Department shall serve subject to the orders of the Chief of Police.
(1994 Code § 30-2-3)
§ 34.23 POLICE PATROL OFFICERS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Probationary appointments.
         (a)   With the exception of a pro-tem appointment as hereinafter
provided, each new appointment to any position on the Police Department shall
be considered probationary.
         (b)   The probationary period shall terminate one year from the date
of any such appointment. During the probationary period, the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Village Board may discharge any probationary
appointee for any reason at any time.
         (c)   After one year from the appointment, the Mayor, with the advice
and consent of the Village Board, may discharge any such appointee for cause,
at any time upon giving the appointee two weeks notice in writing of any such
discharge.
      (2)   Pro-tem police officers. With the advice and consent of the Village
Board, the Mayor may appoint any duly qualified person as a pro-tem police
officer or Chief of Police for the purpose of filling a vacancy on an interim
basis until the vacancy can be filled by a probationary appointment.
Appointment(s) hereunder shall be for a period of 30 calendar days and may be
renewed for a like period by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the
Village Board.
      (3)   Residency. Any probationary or pro-tem appointee shall not be
required to be, at the time of his or her appointment, an elector or resident
of the village; however, if the appointee should move at any time during the
employment period, the appointee must move within the village limits.
      (4)   Bond. Each member of the Police Department, before entering upon
his or her duties shall execute a bond to the village in the penal sum of $500,
conditioned for the faithful performance of his or her duties and the payment
of all moneys that may be received by him or her.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-4)
   (B)   Duties of patrol officers.
      (1)   The police patrol officer shall devote his or her entire time to
the performance of the duties of his or her office, and is hereby charged with
the preservation of the peace, order and safety of the village, and with the
duty of protecting the rights of persons and property, and of enforcing all
laws and also all orders of the Village Board.
      (2)   Each patrol officer shall take notice of all nuisances,
obstructions and defects on the highways or other public places, and shall
cause the same to be abated or removed, or immediate notice thereof given to
the proper officer whose duty it may be to take action in relation thereto.
      (3)   When requested by the Mayor, either in person or by deputy, each
patrolman shall attend all meetings of the Village Board, execute all its
orders and close the Board Chamber upon the adjournment of that body. He or she
shall also execute all warrants or other legal process required to be executed
by him or her under any ordinance of the village or laws of the state.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-5)
   (C)   Salary. The Chief of Police and the patrol officers shall receive such
compensation as may be provided by the ordinances of the village or by
resolution of the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-6)
   (D)   Appointment of patrol officers. A sufficient number of patrol officers
shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the
Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-7)
§ 34.24 MUTUAL AID CONTRACT.
   The Police Department, with the approval of the Village Board, may enter
into an agreement to provide police protection to neighboring municipalities.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-8)
§ 34.25 LEGAL PROCESS.
   All police shall have the power and authority to execute village warrants or
other like legal process without the corporate limits of the village and within
such distance therefrom as authorized by law, in all cases when any ordinances
of the Village Board made pursuant to law shall prescribe a penalty for the
violation of any of its provisions by persons residing, acting or doing
business within the limits of the village.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-9)
§ 34.26 CALL FOR ASSISTANCE.
   Every police officer of the village may, at any time, call upon any able-
bodied person above the age of 18 years to aid him or her in the arresting or
retaking or holding in custody of any person guilty of having committed any
unlawful act or charged therewith, or to aid the officer in preventing the
commission of any unlawful act.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-10)
§ 34.27 AIDING FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Every police officer shall aid the Fire Department by giving the alarm in
case of fire, and in clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity
of any fire so that the firefighters shall not be hindered or obstructed in the
performance of their duties.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-11)
§ 34.28 FAILURE TO PERFORM.
   Any member of the Police Department who shall neglect or refuse to perform
any duty required of him or her by the code of the village or the rules and
regulations of the Department, or who shall, in the discharge of his or her
official duties, be guilty of any fraud, favoritism, extortion, oppressions or
willful wrong or injustice, shall be subject to removal from office.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-12)
§ 34.29 AIDING IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in this village to resist or obstruct
any member of the police force in the discharge of his or her duty or to
endeavor to do so, in any manner, assist any person in the custody of any
member of the police force to escape or to attempt to escape from the custody
or to attempt to rescue any such person in custody.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.30 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   No member on an active tour of duty or while wearing the official police
officer's badge of the village shall indulge in the use of intoxicating liquor
of any kind, and intoxication at any time shall be sufficient cause for
removal.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-14)
§ 34.31 WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Any member of the Police Department shall appear as witness whenever
this is necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or of any
state or federal law.
   (B)   No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as witness in
any action or suit to which the village is a party; and fees paid for those
services shall be turned over to the Chief of Police, who shall deposit the
same with the Village Treasurer.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-15)
§ 34.32 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the
conduct and guidance of the members of the Police Department as he or she shall
deem advisable, and those rules, when approved by the Mayor, shall be binding
on the members.
(1994 Code, § 30-2-16)
§ 34.33 STOLEN PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police shall be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or
stolen property in the village.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-1-1 through 11-1-7) (1994 Code, § 30-2-17)
§ 34.34 PART-TIME POLICE.
   (A)   Employment. The Village of South Roxana may employ part-time police
officers from time to time as it deems necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
General Orders of the South Roxana Police Department, but the number of hours a
part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
police officers shall be trained in accordance with the Illinois Police
Training Act, ILCS, Ch. 50, Act 205, §§ 1 et seq. and the rules and
requirements of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Fitness standards. All persons employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (5)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver's license;
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions;
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time officers serve at the discretion
of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in said
employment and may be removed by the village authorities at any time. Part-time
police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and General Orders
issued by the Police Department.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 34.35 BAIL PROCESSING FEE.
   There is hereby imposed a fee of $20 for bail processing against any person
arrested for violating a bailable municipal offense, or a state or federal law.
It shall be a duty of the Police Department to collect the bail processing fee
in addition to any bail established by statute or order of the court against
any person processed by the Police Department. All bail collected shall
remitted on a regular basis to the Village Clerk and deposited in the General
Fund of the village.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 7-17-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal bond fees, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-12.1, but ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 1-2-12.1 is is repealed effective January 1, 2023 (P.A. 102-28, Sec.
45).
AUXILIARY POLICE
§ 34.45 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to appoint auxiliary police officers as
employees, subject to the advice and consent of the Village Board.
   (B)   Prior to appointment, all proposed auxiliary police officers shall be
fingerprinted and their fingerprints shall be checked with the Federal Bureau
of Identification, Washington, D.C., for any possible criminal record.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed as an auxiliary police officer if he or
she has been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude.
The appointment of any or all auxiliary police officers may be terminated by
the Mayor, subject to the advice and consent of the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 30-3-1)
§ 34.46 SEVERABLE MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The auxiliary police officers shall not be members of the Municipal
Police Department of the village. Auxiliary police officers need not be
residents of the village.
   (B)   Identification symbols worn by the auxiliary police officers shall be
different and distinct from those used by the Municipal Police Department and
shall be selected and chosen by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   Auxiliary police officers shall, at all times during the performance
of their duties, be subject to the direction and control of the Chief of
Police.
(1994 Code, § 30-3-2) (Ord. 98-14, passed 9-15-1998)
§ 34.47 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Auxiliary police officers shall have the following powers and duties when
properly assigned and on duty:
   (A)   To aid or direct traffic in this municipality;
   (B)   To aid in control of natural or human-made disasters;
   (C)   To aid in case of civil disorder;
   (D)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace, or are found violating any municipal ordinance or
any criminal law of the state;
   (E)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
   (F)   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody overnight or
Sunday in any safe place, or until they can be brought before the proper County
Judge;
   (G)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace that the
corporate authorities may prescribe; and
   (H)   To serve and execute all warrants for the violation of municipal
ordinances or the state criminal law, within the limits of the village, and for
this purpose, to have all the common law and statutory power of sheriffs.
(1994 Code, § 30-3-3)
§ 34.48 FIREARMS.
   Auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms, except with the
permission of the Chief of Police, and then only when in uniform and in the
performance of their duties.
(1994 Code, § 30-3-4)
§ 34.49 TRAINING.
   (A)   Auxiliary police officers, prior to entering upon any of their duties,
shall be thoroughly briefed in the proper performance of those duties, either
by the Chief of Police or by a regular, full-time member of the Police
Department authorized by him or her to do so.
   (B)   On-the-job training shall be given each auxiliary police officer and
shall not be certified to act as the auxiliary police officer until certified
capable of acting on his or her own by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   The training shall be drafted and put into effect by the Chief of
Police and shall be that course of training prescribed for regular, full-time
police officers.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall file with the Village Clerk a letter
certifying each auxiliary police officer to be a successful trainee upon the
completion of the training.
(1994 Code, § 30-3-5)
§ 34.50 COMPENSATION.
   Auxiliary police officers shall receive no compensation for services
performed, but shall be carried on the liability and worker's compensation
insurance of this village as employees.
(1994 Code, § 30-3-6)
§ 34.51 CHAIN OF COMMAND.
   The same ranking system now in use by the Emergency Service and Disaster
Agency organization shall be used for the auxiliary police to determine a chain
of organization and command within the auxiliary police officer group, subject
to the direct control of the Chief of Police, as hereinbefore provided.
(1994 Code, § 30-3-7)
§ 34.52 EXPENSES.
   The expenses of the auxiliary police shall be paid from the General Fund as
heretofore appropriated.
(1994 Code, § 30-3-8)
§ 34.53 BADGES AND PATCHES.
   The village shall furnish, at its own expense, the badges and shoulder
patches and other necessary equipment for each auxiliary police officer,
properly identifying each person as an auxiliary police officer of the village.
(1994 Code, § 30-3-9)
§ 34.54 MULTIPLE MEMBERSHIP.
   In the event any auxiliary police officer is also a member of the Emergency
Services and Disaster Agency Unit and his or her services are needed by the
Chief of Police and the Director of ESDA, then the needs and the call of the
Chief of Police shall be adhered to.
(1994 Code, § 30-3-10)
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
§ 34.60 ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Establishment. There shall be a Code Enforcement Officer, who shall
perform the duties assigned and assume the authority delegated by law and the
Chief of Police.
   (B)   Primary duties. The primary duties of the Code Enforcement Officer
shall include:
      (1)   Parking and traffic control;
      (2)   Enforcement of any and all ordinances and statutes relative to
parking regulations within those areas of the city as assigned by the director
of police;
      (3)   Reporting to appropriate authorities the maintenance and repair
needs at any parking or other traffic control signs, devices or markings within
the assigned enforcement area;
      (4)   Traffic direction and/or control whenever necessary due to the
limited availability of sworn personnel, including the receipt of reports
concerning minor motor vehicle crashes.
      (5)   Administration and enforcement of certain general offense
provisions, not including criminal offenses:
   (C)   Property maintenance and management. Enforcement of any and all
ordinances and statutes pertaining to property maintenance or management, but
not to include those set forth in the building and housing code or the planning
and zoning codes, except as provided herein, or as may be assigned by the
director of police in cooperation with other officials;
      (1)   Ordinances and statutes pertaining to animals;
      (2)   Ordinances and statutes pertaining to bill posting;
      (3)   Ordinances and statutes relative to safety, sanitation and health,
snow removal and vegetation growth;
      (4)   Ordinances and statutes pertaining to littering;
      (5)   Enforcement of streets, utilities and public services ordinances.
Enforcement of certain provisions of the streets, utilities and public services
ordinances, provided the same is done with the approval of director of police
and whenever necessary, in cooperation with other officials;
      (6)   Ordinances pertaining to trees overhanging streets and sidewalks;
      (7)   House numbering as required for placement on structures;
      (8)   Ordinances prohibiting littering within parks and otherwise
regulating use of parks by permit or designated area;
      (9)   Ordinances pertaining to required containers, placement and removal
of garbage and refuse.
   (D)   Enforcement of planning and zoning code. Enforcement of certain
provisions of the planning and zoning code, provided it is done with the
approval of the director of police, and when necessary, in cooperation with
other officials:
      (1)   Vision clearance on corner lots;
      (2)   Off-street parking in front yards.
   (E)   Other duties. Any and all other duties as may be assigned by the Chief
of Police.
(Ord. 14-14, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 34.61 AUTHORITY AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Authority.
      (1)   To effect the provisions of this subchapter, any person or persons
appointed to the position hereby established are given full power and authority
to issue citations, tickets or other documentation of violation of any
ordinance or statute within the corporate limits of the village, and to file
same with the appropriate court.
      (2)   The person or persons appointed to the positions of Code
Enforcement Officer shall not at any time carry a firearm or other deadly
weapon, or effect the physical arrest of any individual, unless otherwise
directed by a police officer.
      (3)   Delegation of authority in compliance with law and appointed rank.
All delegations of authority made pursuant to the provisions of this section
shall be in compliance with the law, and such delegations of authority by the
director shall be done with relative respect for the appointed rank of the
recipient whenever reasonable and appropriate.
   (B)   Compensation. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be paid $400 a month.
(Ord. 14-14, passed 10-7-2014)
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY (ESDA)
§ 34.65 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Village ESDA to prevent, minimize, repair
and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage or other hostile action, or from natural or human-made disaster, in
accordance with Illinois Emergency Management Act, being ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305,
§§ 1 et seq., and any amendments thereto.
   (B)   This ESDA shall consist of the Coordinator and such additional members
as may be selected by the Coordinator.
(1994 Code, § 30-4-1)
§ 34.66 COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator of the Village ESDA shall be appointed by the Mayor
and shall serve until removed by the same.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the Mayor, as provided by statute. In the event of the absence,
resignation, death or inability to serve as the Coordinator, the Mayor, or any
person designated by him or her, shall be and act as Coordinator until a new
appointment is made as provided in this code.
(1994 Code, § 30-4-2)
§ 34.67 FUNCTIONS.
   The ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the village as shall be
prescribed in and by the State ESDA Plan and Program prepared by the Governor,
and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor,
and in addition, shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may
be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality, or quasi-municipality entered into as provided in
the Illinois Emergency Management Act, being ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et
seq., and any amendments thereto.
(1994 Code, § 30-4-3)
§ 34.68 SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any members of the ESDA organization may be designated as
members of a mobile support team created by the Director of the State ESDA, as
provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of the mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the ESDA organization.
   (C)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a village employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the State Director,
shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and
immunities incident to the employment or office.
   (D)   Any such member who is not a paid officer or employee of the village
while so serving shall receive from the state, reasonable compensation as
provided by law.
(1994 Code, § 30-4-4)
§ 34.69 AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Coordinator of ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other
villages or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the Mayor.
(1994 Code, § 30-4-5)
§ 34.70 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from human-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the ESDA to
cooperate fully with the State ESDA and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law.
(1994 Code, § 30-4-6)
§ 34.71 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the State Director of ESDA, shall receive for the time
spent in the training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held;
members who are not the village employees or officers shall receive for the
training compensation as may be established by the Mayor.
(1994 Code, § 30-4-7)
§ 34.72 REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the State Director of ESDA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the village in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of
ESDA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state
incident to ESDA activities as provided by law.
(1994 Code, § 30-4-8)
§ 34.73 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Mayor may, on recommendation of the Village Coordinator of ESDA,
authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the village in a
position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of the
disaster, or from human-made or natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the Village
Coordinator of ESDA is authorized on behalf of the village to procure those
services, supplies, equipment or materials as may be necessary for such
purposes, in view of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or
formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or
obligations, as authorized by Illinois Emergency Management Act, being ILCS Ch.
20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et seq., and amendments thereto, provided that if the Mayor
meets at such time, he or she shall act subject to the directions and
restrictions imposed by that body.
(1994 Code, § 30-4-9)
§ 34.74 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Village ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the
following oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator: "I,
__________________________ do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States of America, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and the
territory, institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am affiliated with the ESDA organization, I will not
advocate, nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence."
(1994 Code, § 30-4-10)
§ 34.75 OFFICE; APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in a village building, or
elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Mayor for the Village ESDA as its
office.
(1994 Code, § 30-4-11)
   (B)   The Mayor may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner
provided by law and may levy in addition for ESDA purposes only, a tax not to
exceed $.05 per $100 of the assessed value of all taxable property in addition
to all other taxes, as provided by Illinois Emergency Management Act, being
ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et seq., and amendments thereto; however, that
amount collectable under the levy shall in no event exceed $.25 per capita.
(1994 Code, § 30-4-12)
KEY LOCK BOXES
§ 34.85 KNOX BOX ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Required; exemptions.
      (1)   The following structures shall be equipped with a key lock box
within eight feet of the main entrance or other such location required by the
Fire Chief. The lock box shall be affixed in a location of not less than four
feet and not more than six feet above final grade:
         (a)   Any commercial or industrial structure or assembly area
protected by an automatic alarm system or automatic suppression system, or any
such structures which are secured in a manner which restricts access during an
emergency.
         (b)   Any educational facility.
         (c)   Any building or facility containing a quantity of hazardous
materials which would require compliance with title III of SARA (superfund
amendment reauthorization act).
      (2)   This section shall not apply to residential structures unless
requested by the owner, in which case, the provisions of this section shall
apply.
   (B)   Time for installation. All newly constructed structures subject to
this section or at the discretion of the Fire Chief shall have the key lock box
installed and operational prior to occupancy. All structures in existence on
the effective date hereof shall have six months to have a key lock box
installed and operational.
   (C)   Fire Department approved padlock. Any structure meeting the
requirements of divisions (A) and (B) of this section surrounded by a locked
fence in an area barring access to the structure shall be required to utilize a
padlock in conjunction with the lock which is utilized by the property/business
owner, which is keyed to match the approved key lock box as defined by this
section. If there are multiple locked entrances through the fence, only one
shall be required to utilize the Fire Department approved lock.
   (D)   Type of lock box. The Fire Chief shall designate the type of key lock
box system to be implemented within the village and shall have the authority to
require all structures to use the designated system.
   (E)   Keys required in box.
      (1)   The owner or operator of a structure required to have a key lock
box shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box for the following:
         (a)   The main entrance door;
         (b)   Alarm room (if one exists);
         (c)   Mechanical and/or sprinkler control rooms;
         (d)   Fire alarm control panel;
         (e)   Electrical room;
         (f)   Special keys to reset pull station;
         (g)   Elevator keys (if an elevator exists); and
         (h)   Any other room as specified by the Fire Chief.
      (2)   These keys shall be labeled for easy identification in the field.
   (F)   Rules and regulations. The Fire Chief shall be authorized to implement
rules and regulations for the use of the lock box system.
   (G)   Penalty. The penalty for violation of this section shall be as stated
in §
10.99.
(Ord. 15-17, passed --)
CHAPTER 35: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
   
35.01   Tax and finance ordinances adopted by reference
§ 35.01 TAX AND FINANCE ORDINANCES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The tax and finance ordinances are hereby adopted by reference, and set out
as fully as if set out at length herein.
(1994 Code, Ch. 36) (Ord. 98-12, passed 9-15-1998; Ord. 98-13, passed 9-15-
1998; Ord. 99-10, passed 12-21-1999; Ord. 02-07, passed 9-3-2002; Ord. 07-04,
passed 4-18-2007; Ord. 11-03, passed 2-8-2011; Ord. 11-07, passed 3-22-2011;
Ord. 11-12, passed 12-6-2011; Ord. 12-17, passed 12-17-2012; Ord. 13-08, passed
12-3-2013; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-16-2014; Ord. 15-13, passed --, Ord. 16-09,
passed --, Ord. 17-13, passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 20-16, passed 10-6-2020; Ord.
21-11, passed 11-2-2021; Ord. 22-14, passed 10-4-2022; Ord. 23-11, passed 12-5-
2023; Ord. 24-15, passed 12-29- 2024; Ord. 25-12, passed 5-6-2025)
CHAPTER 36: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
Section
   
36.01   Tax imposed; rate
   
36.02   Collection of tax by retailers
§ 36.01 TAX IMPOSED; RATE.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 130, §§1 et seq., at
retail in the village at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from these sales
made in the course of that business.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Section 8-11-23, of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §8-11-23).
(Ord. 19-13, passed 8-6-2019)
§ 36.02 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be remitted by the retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (“Department”). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any tax collected by
the retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall constitute a
debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse themselves for
their sellers’ tax liability hereunder by separately stating that tax as an
additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in a single
amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 19-13, passed 8-6-2019)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES IN GENERAL
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM
      
52.   UTILITY RATES
      
53.   SEWER SYSTEM
      
54.   UTILITY EXTENSIONS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES IN GENERAL
Section
Water and Sewer Department
   
50.01   Department established
   
50.02   Committee(s) on Water and Sewer
   
50.03   Superintendent of Water and Sewer
   
50.04   Duties of the Superintendent
Rates and Regulations
   
50.15   Contract for utility services
   
50.16   Consumer lists
   
50.17   Liability for charges
   
50.18   Estimated charge
   
50.19   No free utility service
   
50.20   Water service charge
Electricity Aggregation Program
   
50.30   Adoption of Plan of Operation and Governance
WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT
§ 50.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There shall be an executive department of the village known as the
Water and Sewer Department.
   (B)   It shall include the Committee(s) on Water and Sewer, appointed by the
Mayor, and its employees. The designated office shall be the Village Hall.
(1994 Code, § 38-1-1)
§ 50.02 COMMITTEE(S) ON WATER AND SEWER.
   (A)   The Committee(s) on Water and Sewer shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the waterworks system and sewerage system.
   (B)   They shall ascertain the condition and needs thereof; and shall, from
time to time, report the same to the Mayor and Village Board so that a full
understanding thereof shall be had; and generally, shall do all acts necessary
to promote the efficiency of the Water and Sewer Department.
(1994 Code, § 38-1-2)
§ 50.03 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND SEWER.
   The Superintendent of Water and Sewer shall be subject to the supervision of
the Committee(s) on Water and Sewer. He or she shall be appointed by the Mayor,
by and with the consent of the Village Board and shall hold his or her office
until his or her successor shall be appointed and qualified. He or she shall
receive such salary as may be provided by the annual appropriation ordinance of
the village.
(1994 Code, § 38-1-3)
§ 50.04 DUTIES OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.
   The duties of the Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department shall be
as follows:
   (A)   He or she shall, subject to the direction of the Village Board, have
the general direction and control of the Water and Sewer Department, and shall
see that the object and purpose thereof are carried out, and that the
waterworks system and sewerage system is conducted on an economical, business-
like basis;
   (B)   He or she shall set up and maintain a proper system of accounts
showing the amount of revenue received from both the waterworks and sewerage
system and the application of this revenue. At least once each year, his or her
accounts shall be properly audited by a certified public accountant and a
report of this audit shall be open to the public for inspection at all
reasonable times;
   (C)   He or she shall prepare each month a report of all claims and expenses
incurred by the Department in the discharge of its duties and submit the same
to the Village Board. The claims and expenses shall be paid only upon vouchers
drawn against the "Waterworks and Sewerage Fund" in accordance with the order
of the Village Board;
   (D)   He or she shall inspect all connections to the waterworks and sewerage
systems at the time they are made and report to the comptroller the date when
the sewerage connection is completed or the water is turned on;
   (E)   He or she shall shut off the water supply of any delinquent user or
violator of the provisions of this title;
   (F)   He or she shall issue permits for connections to the waterworks and
sewerage systems whenever an application for the same has been made as provided
herein, and to tap the mains of the water and sewer systems wherever
connections are to be made;
   (G)   He or she shall determine the size of each connection to be made;
   (H)   He or she shall supervise the setting, taking off and repairing of all
water meters;
   (I)   He or she shall make all repairs occasioned by leaks or breaks in the
mains of the waterworks and sewerage systems, and shall shut off the water from
all premises where leaks are permitted to go unrepaired; and
   (J)   He or she shall examine and test, at least annually, all fire hydrants
and street valves and if they are found to be in an unsatisfactory condition,
he or she is to repair the same.
(1994 Code, § 38-1-4)
RATES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 CONTRACT FOR UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   Customer accepts service. The rates, rules and regulations contained
in this chapter shall constitute and be considered a part of the contract with
every person, company or corporation who is supplied with water and sewer
services from the water and sewer systems and every person, company or
corporation, hereinafter called a “customer” who accepts and uses village water
and sewer services shall be held to have consented to be bound thereby.
   (B)   Not liable for interrupted service. The Department shall endeavor at
all times to provide a regular and uninterrupted supply of service, but in case
the supply of service shall be interrupted or irregular, or defective, or fail
from causes beyond its control or through ordinary negligence of employees,
servants or agents, the Departments shall not be liable therefor.
   (C)   Using services without paying. Any person using utility services from
the village without paying therefor, or who shall be found guilty of breaking
the seal of any meter or appurtenances, or bypass any meter, shall be guilty of
violating this code, and upon conviction, shall be fined a sum as provided in §
10.99.
   (D)   Destroying property.
      (1)   Any person found guilty of defacing, tampering, injuring or
destroying, or in any manner, limiting the use or availability of any meter or
any property of the water and sewer system, or erecting signs on the property
of the Department without permission shall, upon conviction of the act, be
fined as provided in §
10.99.
      (2)   Any residence where a water meter has been defaced, tampered,
injured, destroyed, or in any manner, limiting the use or availability of any
meter or any property of the water and sewer system, or the property owner will
be charged an additional fee of $250.
   (E)   Service obtained by fraud.
      (1)   All contracts for water and sewer services shall be made in the
name of the head of the household, firm or corporation using the established
spelling of that person’s or firm’s name.
      (2)   Attempts to obtain service by the use of other names, different
spellings or by substituting other persons or firms shall be considered a
subterfuge and service shall be denied.
      (3)   If service has been discontinued because of nonpayment of bills, or
any unpaid obligation and service has again been obtained through subterfuge,
misrepresentation or fraud, that service shall be promptly disconnected and the
whole or the part of the advanced payment as may be necessary to satisfy the
unpaid obligation shall be retained by the village and credited to the
appropriate account.
      (4)   All water accounts for rental property shall be in the name of the
owner, landlord, manager, and not the tenant of the rental property. Existing
deposits may be returned or applied to the new account in the name of owner,
landlord, or manager.
   (F)   Failure to receive bill. Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse a
customer from his or her obligation to pay within the time specified. Should
the Department be unable to bill a customer for services used during any month,
the following billing shall include the charges for services used during the
unbilled month. A month shall be considered as that period of approximately 30
days.
   (G)   Request to discontinue service. Services shall have been deemed to
have been supplied to any property connected to the water and sewer systems
during a month unless the customer notifies the village prior to the first day
of the new billing month in which the services are to be discontinued.
   (H)   Billing; utility shut-off; hearing.
      (1)   There shall be a monthly administration fee of $4.75 on each
monthly utility bill.
      (2)   All bills for utility services shall be due and payable upon
presentation. If a bill is not paid by the fifteenth day of the month, the bill
payment shall be considered delinquent and a penalty equal to 10% of the amount
due on the bill shall be added thereto. This penalty shall be in addition to
the charges heretofore established for the utility services.
         (a)   Water bills are delinquent if not paid in full by the fifteenth
of each month’s billing cycle. The service will be disconnected by the village
with a 10% late fee assessed to the account, along with a $35 reconnection fee.
         (b)   1.   Every resident may request a re-reading of their water
meter once each calendar year for no additional charge. Any requested re-
reading of the meter more than once each calendar year shall be charged as
follows:
            2.   Fifteen dollars ($15) for the second reading in one calendar
year and $25 for any additional readings beyond the second reading in one
calendar year. The village retains its right to read any and all meters as
needed and deemed appropriate.
      (3)   Once the village has disconnected utility services, if the village
determines that the utility has been reconnected without the authorization of
the village, the utility shall immediately be disconnected by the village and
the customer charged an additional fee of $250.
      (4)   A $35 reprocessing fee shall be charged for any check for which the
village is advised of charges by the bank due to insufficient funds in the
customer’s checking account at the time of initial processing. All further
payments must be made by cash, credit/debit card or money order.
      (5)   Whenever the current balance on a water bill exceeds the amount of
the deposit held by the village on the account, the Village Water Clerk is
authorized to take the deposit as payment toward the balance owed and the
balance of the delinquent bill is to paid by the user.
   (I)   Lien notice.
      (1)   Whenever a bill for utility services becomes delinquent, the owner
shall be promptly notified and advised that the delinquency may result in a
lien on the real estate in accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-139-8. When
a delinquent bill remains unpaid for 90 days, the Treasurer shall advise the
Chairperson of the Public Works Committee.
      (2)   The Chairperson shall, at the discretion of the mayor or Village
Administrator, direct the Village Attorney to file with the County Recorder of
Deeds, a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal
description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill and a notice
that the municipality claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges
for utility services served subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   (J)   Foreclosure of lien.
      (1)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid utility charges may be sold
for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to
pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. The foreclosure shall be by bill-in equity in the name of the
village.
      (2)   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized to institute the
proceedings in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction over
such matters, against any property for which the bill for utility services has
remained unpaid 45 days after it has been rendered.
   (K)   Bad debt write-off. If an outstanding balance has not been paid, and
lien proceedings have not been filed by the Village Attorney within 12 months
subsequent to the date that service was disconnected at a given property, the
unpaid balance shall be written-off and accounted for as a bad debt.
   (L)   Disconnection.
      (1)   The village may shut off your service for any of the following
reasons:
         (a)   Failure to pay your bill by the due date.
         (b)   Failure to pay an entire past due bill or security deposit.
         (c)   The residence is unsafe.
         (d)   Occupant usage without a valid customer of record.
         (e)   Theft of service and/or tampering.
         (f)   Non-compliance with village code.
         (g)   Failure to allow village access to the meter.
         (h)   Water/sewer leak.
      (2)   Disconnection due to failure to pay your bill. This written
notification must be on red paper and separate from any bills. The notice must
be mailed by US mail or hand delivered and posted upon the property. The shut
off may not happen until at least five days from the sending or delivery of the
notice to the customer.
      (3)   The purpose of this section is to provide adequate notice and
reason for disconnection, allow for the customer to remedy the problem and
avoid disconnection, create an expectation to act upon notice by a utility when
a customer does not remedy the problem, and set prohibitions and limits on
disconnection under certain circumstances.
      (4)   Non-business hours prohibition. A utility shall not disconnect a
customer within one hour before or at any time during which it does not have
its customer service personnel available to handle the customer’s contact.
      (5)   Weekday afternoon limits. A utility shall not disconnect a customer
after 4:00 p.m. on Monday through Thursday unless the utility is prepared to
take the customer’s payment and reconnect the customer that same day if the
customer remedies the reason for the disconnection.
      (6)   Friday limits. A utility shall not disconnect a residential
customer after noon on Friday or a non-residential customer after 4:00 p.m. on
Friday, unless it is prepared to take the customer’s payment and reconnect the
customer that same day if the customer remedies the reason for the
disconnection.
      (7)   Weekend limits. A utility shall not disconnect a customer on
Saturday or Sunday unless it is prepared to take the customer’s payment and
reconnect the customer that same day if the customer remedies the reason for
the disconnection.
      (8)   Holiday limits. A utility shall not disconnect a customer on a
state or utility holiday, or after noon on any day preceding a state or utility
holiday, unless the utility is prepared to take the customer’s payment and
reconnect the customer that same day if the customer remedies the reason for
the disconnection.
(1994 Code, § 38-2-1) (Ord. 01-10, passed 12-18-2001; Ord. 04-12, passed 12-7-
2004; Ord. 05-16, passed 11-1-2005; Ord. 06-03, passed 1-17-2006; Ord. 09-06,
passed 5-5-2009; Ord. 09-07, passed 5-19-2009; Ord. 12-06, passed 6-5-2012;
Ord. 12-14, passed 11-8-2012; Ord. 13-09, passed 12-3-2013; Ord. 17-03, passed
6-6-2017; Ord. 19-07, passed 6-18-2019; Ord. 20-01, passed 1-7-2020; Ord. 20-
09, passed 2-4-2020; Ord. 21-12, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 22-09, passed 9-6-2022)
§ 50.16 CONSUMER LISTS.
   (A)   It is hereby made the duty of the Water Clerk to prepare or cause to
be prepared a complete and accurate list of all premises and properties
receiving utility services, showing the name and address of the occupant and
the owner of the same.
   (B)   The list shall be kept up-to-date, and shall be corrected from time to
time to allow changes in the occupancy or ownership of any such property or
premises. It shall be presented to the Board if requested.
(1994 Code, § 38-2-2) (Ord. 95-06, passed 10-12-1995; Ord. 01-10, passed 12-18-
2001)
§ 50.17 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   The user of the services shall be liable for the payment of the services to
the lot, parcel of land or premises and all services that are rendered to the
premises by the village only on the condition that the user shall be liable
therefor to the village. Further, in accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-
139-8, the charges are liens upon the real estate upon which service is
supplied. Whenever the charges become delinquent, §
50.15(I) and (J) above shall be in full force and effect.
(1994 Code, § 38-2-3) (Ord. 01-10, passed 12-18-2001)
§ 50.18 ESTIMATED CHARGE.
   Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair or from any cause,
fails to properly register the utilities passing through the same, the consumer
shall be charged the average charge of the previous three-months' usage. If no
record to the previous three months exists, then it shall be the duty of the
Clerk to estimate the amount of utilities consumed during the time the meter
fails to operate, and the consumer shall be charged with the estimated amount.
Bills may be estimated whenever it is impossible to read the meters during
inclement weather.
(1994 Code, § 38-2-4) (Ord. 01-10, passed 12-18-2001)
§ 50.19 NO FREE UTILITY SERVICE.
   No free utility service shall be furnished to any person, public or private,
and all rates and charges shall be non-discriminatory.
(1994 Code, § 38-2-5) (Ord. 01-10, passed 12-18-2001)
§ 50.20 WATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   (1)   Each applicant for water service shall pay a refundable service
deposit at the time of making application of the following:
         (a)   Seventy-five dollars for owner occupied residential service;
         (b)   Two hundred dollars for non-owner occupied residential service;
and $75 for owner occupied; and
         (c)   One hundred fifty dollars for commercial or industrial service.
      (2)   No water service shall be provided until the refundable service
deposit is paid.
         (a)   Keep-on.
            1.   The owner of a premises may request that service be continuing
pending reletting of the premises. The owner shall agree to be responsible for
a $100 fee to read and leave the meter on for a period of time no longer than
two weeks.
            2.   After a two-week period, the meter shall be read and turned
off.
            3.   If the owner of the premises wishes to keep the water in their
name in the absence of a renter, the owner must pay the full water bill along
with required deposit.
         (b)   Upaid bill outstanding. Water service shall not be furnished to
any premises on which there is an unpaid water bill outstanding.
         (c)   Turn off/on fee. There shall be a $50 fee for a turn-off/turn-on
of any water service performed at times other than during normal working hours.
The normal working hours are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday
(except holidays).
   (B)   Monies collected pursuant hereto shall be deposited by the Village
Treasurer in the water, sewer and refuse operating accounts.
   (C)   Upon permanent discontinuance of service by a customer, a final meter
reading shall be taken, the gross final account balance shall be determined,
the refundable deposit applied and the net balance due determined. When a net
balance is due the village, the customer shall be billed and the owner
concurrently notified of the outstanding balance due. If the balance due is not
paid within 90 days of the initial billing, the account shall be declared
delinquent and handled accordingly. When the net balance is a credit due the
customer, a deposit refund check shall be written against the Water Fund and
forwarded to the customer.
(1994 Code, § 38-2-6) (Ord. 01-10, passed 12-18-2001; Ord. 09-06, passed 5-5-
2009; Ord. 09-11, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 17-04, passed 6-6-2017; Ord. 19-11,
passed 6-18-2019)
ELECTRICITY AGGREGATION PROGRAM
§ 50.30 ADOPTION OF PLAN OF OPERATION AND GOVERNANCE.
   (A)   The village's Electricity Aggregation Program Plan of Operation and
Governance, in substantially the form of the copy of said Plan attached to
Ordinance 12-16 and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein, is
hereby authorized and approved.
   (B)   The village's Electricity Aggregation Program shall be operated and
governed in accordance with the Electricity Aggregation Program Plan of
Operation and Governance, the applicable provisions of the Illinois Power
Agency Act, ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3855, §§ 1 et seq., and any applicable rules and
regulations that are now or in the future adopted pursuant to the Act.
(Ord. 12-16, passed 11-27-2012)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SYSTEM
Section
Generally
   
51.01   Application for taps and service connections to the waterworks system
   
51.02   All service to be by meter
   
51.03   Inspection
   
51.04   Meter damaged
   
51.05   Village not liable for damage done by interruption
   
51.06   Resale
   
51.07   Dangerous usage
   
51.08   Electric ground wires
   
51.09   Water for building or construction purposes
   
51.10   Fire hydrants
   
51.11   Lawn watering
   
51.12   Shortage and purity of supply
   
51.13   Non-compliance with rules
   
51.14   Rules to become part of contract
   
51.15   Use of ground water as a potable supply
Cross-Connections
   
51.25   Notice to customer
   
51.26   Cross-connection approval required
   
51.27   Investigations by Superintendent
   
51.28   Right to enter premises
   
51.29   Annual inspection
   
51.30   Notice to customer; reconnect fee
   
51.31   Contaminations cost and expense
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sewer system, see
Chapter 53
   Utility rates, see
Chapter 52
GENERALLY
§ 51.01 APPLICATION FOR TAPS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS TO THE WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   (A)   An applicant desiring a water tap or service connection with the
waterworks system of the village shall file a written application at the
Village Hall, signed by the owner of the property for which the tap or service
connection is desired, or by the duly authorized agent of the owner.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by payment of the fee hereinafter
prescribed to cover the cost of the service connection.
   (C)   In the event the application is made by an agent for the owner, then
the application shall also be accompanied by the written authority of the owner
to the agent for the making of the application.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-1)
§ 51.02 ALL SERVICE TO BE BY METER.
   (A)   All water service, whether for domestic, commercial or industrial use
shall be metered.
   (B)   There shall be a separate meter for each individual(s) and/or family
residing together in multiple-family dwellings.
   (C)   Only the Mayor and Board of Trustees by majority vote may grant a
variance, in writing, to this requirement.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-2) (Ord. 89-3, passed 5-11-1989)
§ 51.03 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Access to premises. The village shall have access to all portions of
the premises of the consumer at any reasonable time for inspection of the use
of water, and the consumer's pipe, fixtures, plumbing and any other apparatus,
in any manner connected to the water system of the village. The village shall
have the right and option to demand change or stopping of use or to require any
repair, change, removal or improvement of any pipe, fixture, plumbing or other
apparatus that would, in any manner affect the water supply or system of the
village or the supply or fixtures of other consumers.
   (B)   Meters to be open to inspection. All water meters and water fixtures,
connections and appurtenances on private property connected with the waterworks
system of the village shall be open to the inspection of the proper officers
and employees of the village at all reasonable hours.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-3)
§ 51.04 METER DAMAGED.
   Whenever a meter is found to have been damaged by hot water being forced
back into it from the consumer's hot water or heating apparatus, or for any
other cause within control of the consumer, the consumer shall pay the village
for the actual cost of the removal, repair and replacement of the damaged meter
and all previous water bills shall be corrected on an estimated basis to cover
such period as it appears that the meter was out of order for the damage.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-4)
§ 51.05 VILLAGE NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGE DONE BY INTERRUPTION.
   All connections for the water services applied for hereunder, and all
connections now attached to the present waterworks system of the village, and
all use or service of the system shall be upon the express condition that the
village will not be liable for, nor shall any claim be made against it for
damages or injury caused by reason of the breaking of any main, service pipe,
apparatus or appurtenance connected with the waterworks system or for any
interruption of the supply of water by reason of the breaking of machinery or
by reason of stoppages, alterations or renewals.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-5)
§ 51.06 RESALE.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient or consumer thereof
from the village supply to any premises other than that for which application
has been made and the meter installed, except in cases of emergency.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-6)
§ 51.07 DANGEROUS USAGE.
   (A)   The village shall have the right to refuse water service or to
discontinue water service without notice at any time to any consumer if the
village finds any apparatus or appliances, the operation of which will be
detrimental to the water system of the village or to any or all of its
consumers.
   (B)   Stand pipes, hydrants, gate valves and any other apparatus that cause
water hammer or any danger to the water system or other customer's plumbing
shall be immediately repaired or removed upon notice from the village, or at
its option, the village may immediately discontinue service without notice and
without any liability for direct or resulting damages therefrom.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-8)
§ 51.08 ELECTRIC GROUND WIRES.
   (A)   All persons are strictly forbidden to attach any electric ground wire
to any plumbing or water piping which is or may be connected to any water
service pipe, water meter or water main belonging to the village.
   (B)   The village shall hold the owner of the premises responsible and
liable for any damage to the property or injury to the employees of the village
caused by the ground wire. All owners and consumers shall remove any existing
ground wires immediately upon written notice from the village.
   (C)   If not so disconnected after five-days' written notice, the village,
through its officials, may enter the property and remove the ground wires and
the consumer shall pay all costs.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-9)
§ 51.09 WATER FOR BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES.
   (A)   Persons or corporations desiring to use water from the municipal
system for building or construction purposes shall make application therefor to
the Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department on a form provided by the
Water and Sewer Department for that purpose.
   (B)   Upon a permit being granted, the service pipe shall be carried at the
expense of the applicant to the inside of the curb line, where a service cock
and meter shall be placed with pipe leading to the surface, and a faucet placed
at the end thereof above the surface. When the building or construction is
completed, the faucet and meter shall be removed and the water shut off, unless
permanent connection is made in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Charge for the use and connection of the meter shall be prescribed by the
Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-10)
§ 51.10 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All hydrants shall be owned, maintained and used only by the village.
Use of water from fire hydrants by contractors and others shall be only upon
permission by the village after approved application.
   (B)   The village shall not be liable and will not assume any responsibility
for the condition of any fire hydrant inside or outside of the village limits,
or the pressure or amount of water obtainable therefrom, or any damages, either
direct or resultant because of the condition, pressure or amount of water
available from any fire hydrant.
   (C)   All public fire hydrants outside of any village limits owned by the
village will be maintained in as good order as reasonably possible, but the
village will not undertake or assume any responsibility or liability for their
condition, use or abuse.
   (D)   The public fire hydrants shall be used only for the purpose of
extinguishing fire, except when the village may issue a special permit for
their use to contractors who shall then be responsible for the hydrants and the
use of water from them.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-11)
§ 51.11 LAWN WATERING.
   The right is reserved to suspend the use of lawn fountains and hose for
sprinkling lawns and gardens whenever, in the opinion of the village, public
exigencies require it.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-12)
§ 51.12 SHORTAGE AND PURITY OF SUPPLY.
   The village shall not be held responsible for or in any manner liable to any
person, company, consumer or public body, for any claim or damage, either
direct or resultant because of any shortage of water supply, any shutoff of
water supply for any reason, any bursting or leakage of either the consumer's
or village's mains, pipes and fixtures, any pollution or impurity in water
supply, or any fire or water damage.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-13)
§ 51.13 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH RULES.
   (A)   If any consumer fails to fully comply with any of the rules and
regulations in force, the village shall notify the consumer of the failure.
   (B)   If the consumer does not remedy the same, as the rules provide, and
within a reasonable time, the village shall have the right to discontinue
service.
   (C)   Except in case of non-payment, emergency, necessity or as otherwise
provided, the village will not discontinue service for violation of any rule
until five days after notice has been given and the violation has not been
remedied.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-14)
§ 51.14 RULES TO BECOME PART OF CONTRACT.
   All of the rules and regulations concerning the use of the facilities of the
water system and the consumption of water shall be adopted and the same shall
become part of the contract with every water consumer and every water consumer
shall be considered to take water from the village, subject thereto and bound
thereby.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-15)
§ 51.15 USE OF GROUND WATER AS A POTABLE SUPPLY.
   (A)   Use of ground water as a potable water supply prohibited. Except for
the methods in existence before the effective date of this section, the use or
attempt to use as a potable water supply ground water from within the
"restricted areas" (a map of which is available in the Village Clerk's office)
of the village by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other method
is hereby prohibited, including points of withdraw by the village.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes or preparing foods.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 7-20-2004)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.25 NOTICE TO CUSTOMER.
   (A)   If in accordance with the State Plumbing Code or in the judgment of
the Director of Public Works, an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the Director of
Public Works or his or her authorized agent shall give notice to the water
customer to install such an approved device immediately.
   (B)   The water customer shall, at his or her own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890, and all applicable local regulations, and
shall have inspections and tests made of the approved devices as required by
the State Plumbing Code and local regulations.
   (C)   The installation thereof, being of a complex nature, shall be made by
a licensed plumber licensed under the state requirements therefor, who has
additionally been certified by the State Environmental Protection Agency as
qualified as a cross-connection control inspector.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-18) (Ord. 88-18, passed 9-8-1988)
§ 51.26 CROSS-CONNECTION APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No person shall establish, or permit to be established, or maintain or
permit to be maintained, any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
village may enter the supply or distribution system of the village, unless the
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of the supply shall have been approved by the Director of Public Works and
the State Environmental Protection Agency.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-19) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.27 INVESTIGATIONS BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to cause surveys
and investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist.
   (B)   The surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of public record
and shall be repeated at least every two years, or as often as the Director of
Public Works shall deem necessary. Records of the surveys shall be maintained
and available for review for a period of at least five years.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-20)
§ 51.28 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   (A)   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system or Water Department for the
purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the
Director of Public Works or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of Water Department for the purpose of
verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-
connection control inspection.
   (B)   On demand, the owner, lessee or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the Director of Public Works any information which he or she
may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on the
property. The refusal of that information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the Director of Public Works, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this subchapter.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-21)
§ 51.29 ANNUAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   The device shall be inspected annually and the inspection shall
include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
   (B)   Customers shall notify the Water Department by mail no later than ten
days after the inspection.
   (C)   The notification shall include the date of the inspection, the firm
that conducted the inspection, along with their license number, and the
inspector's cross-connection control certification identification number.
   (D)   The results and recommendations of the inspection shall also be
included in the notification.
   (E)   The customer who possesses the device shall maintain detailed records
for examination by the Director of Public Works or his or her authorized agent.
   (F)   Included in those records will be the manufacturer's instructions, and
records regarding installation, inspection, testing, repairs and alteration.
   (G)   Failure to conduct inspections, or notify the Water Department of the
inspections shall be deemed as negligent on the customer's part and
disconnection of the customer's service will take place on the Director of
Public Work's order.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-22)
§ 51.30 NOTICE TO CUSTOMER; RECONNECT FEE.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
chapter is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he
or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply distribution mains.
   (B)   Water service to the property shall not be restored until such
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, and until a reconnection fee of $150 is paid to the village.
   (C)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Director of Public Works is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. That action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-23)
§ 51.31 CONTAMINATIONS COST AND EXPENSE.
   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device or a device which has been bypassed, shall bear the cost of clean-up of
the potable water supply system.
(1994 Code, § 38-3-24) (Ord. 88-18, passed 9-8-1988)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
51.15 shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 for each violation.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 7-20-2004)
CHAPTER 52: UTILITY RATES
Section
Water Rates
   
52.01   Building unit defined
   
52.02   Charge for discontinuing service
   
52.03   Cost of water connection
   
52.04   Water rates
   
52.05   Appeals
Wastewater Service Charges
   
52.20   Basis for wastewater service charges
   
52.21   Measurement of flow
   
52.22   Rates
   
52.23   Revenues
   
52.24   Accounts
   
52.25   Access to records
   
52.26   Water Clerk to arrange payment plans
Cross-reference:
   Sewer system, see
Chapter 53
   Utilities in general, see
Chapter 50
   Water system, see
Chapter 51
WATER RATES
§ 52.01 BUILDING UNIT DEFINED.
   All persons or families residing in a building under one roof, be it an
apartment or homes converted into more than one dwelling place, each family or
individual resident residing therein shall be deemed an individual customer or
the homes or apartments or dwellings shall be billed for at least one minimum
water and/or sewer account according to the number of families or individual
residents residing therein.
(1994 Code, § 38-4-1)
§ 52.02 CHARGE FOR DISCONTINUING SERVICE.
   If water is temporarily shut off at the request of the user, a charge of $5
shall be made for that service.
(1994 Code, § 38-4-2)
§ 52.03 COST OF WATER CONNECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring a water connection as provided for in §
51.01 above shall pay a fee of $1,000 to the village prior to the installation
of the tap-in. A meter shall be furnished by the village. In tapping the water
main, the contractor shall use a brass corporation cock with threads on both
ends.
      (2)   The fee for any tap on any line larger than two-inch shall increase
by $250 per half inch.
   (B)   It shall be tapped into the main, not less than 14 inches from any
joint in the main. The contractor shall install the service in compliance with
the Plumbing Code contained in the B.O.C.A. Code, as adopted in Chapter 6 or
the State Plumbing Code, whichever is more strict.
   (C)   All water tap and service connections made to the mains of the
waterworks system of the village shall conform to the regulations of this
chapter and of the State Plumbing Code.
(1994 Code, § 38-4-3) (Ord. 98-03, passed 5-5-1998; Ord. 19-10, passed 6-18-
2019)
§ 52.04 WATER RATES.
   The following rates for the use and service supplied by the waterworks
system shall be based upon the amount of water consumed per month as follows:
   (A)   Sixteen dollars, sixty cents for the billing month’s first 2,000
gallons delivered to the residence, office, establishment, building or
connection; and
   (B)   After the delivery thereafter of 2,000 gallons during any billing
month: $5.22 for each 1,000 gallons so delivered.
   (C)   Residential pool filling credit.
      (1)   Residential sewer service customers are eligible once per calendar
year to receive a credit for metered water used to fill an outdoor swimming
pool. Sewer users must inform Water Clerk within 14 days of filling the
swimming pool to be eligible for a pool credit.
      (2)   The Water Clerk will provide a $25 credit to the resident water
account.
(1994 Code, § 38-4-4) (Ord. 94-05, passed 7-28-1994; Ord. 98-03, passed 5-5-
1998; Ord. 04-12, passed 12-7-2004; Ord. 06-06, passed 4-4-2006; Ord. 16-03,
passed 5-3-2016; Ord. 17-05, passed 6-6-2017; Ord. 20-07, passed 2-4-2020; Ord.
21-07, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 52.05 APPEALS.
   (A)   If a customer’s water and sewer bill is greater than 500% of the
previous month’s bill because of a leak of the customer’s water line(s), the
customer may apply to the Water Department in writing, within 30 days from the
date of the bill, requesting an adjustment on the sewage portion of the bill as
to the increase in usage that exceeds 500% of the previous month’s bill. There
shall be no abatement on the water bill as this water is purchased by the
village.
   (B)   In order for the appeal of the sewer bill over 500% of the previous
month’s bill to be approved, the customer must prove to the satisfaction of the
Village Board that the excessive usage is due to a leak, and that the customer,
immediately upon becoming aware of the leak, took all necessary steps to stop
the leak.
   (C)   No adjustment will be made for seasonal water usage, not caused by a
leak, that exceeds 500% of the previous month’s bill.
   (D)   The Village Board shall have the authority to review and process any
request for a reduction in sewer bill due to a leak, and may authorize an
adjustment pursuant to the criteria set out above. Each case will be reviewed
on an individual basis.
   (E)   The customer must pay the entire water and sewer bill when due, even
if a request for an abatement is made, whether or not granted. Failure to
timely pay the protested water and sewer bill shall act as an automatic denial
of the request for adjustment.
   (G)   An appeal for a leak credit on the sewer portion of the water bill
shall not occur more than twice in a 12-month period.
(1994 Code, § 38-4-5) (Ord. 89-13, passed 12-14-1989; Ord. 15-02, passed 3-17-
2015)
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 52.20 BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied
by the wastewater facilities of the village shall consist of a basic user
charge for operation and maintenance, plus replacement, a debt service charge
and a surcharge, if applicable.
   (B)   The "debt service charge" shall be computed by dividing the annual
debt service of all outstanding loans and bonds by the number of users. Through
further divisions, the monthly and quarterly debt service charges can be
computed.
   (C)   The "basic user charge" shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
concentrations.
      (1)   A five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 200 mg/l; and
      (2)   A suspended solids (SS) content of 240 mg/l.
   (D)   It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs, plus replacement
and shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories;
      (2)   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories by
volume, suspended solids and BOD, if possible;
      (3)   Estimate wastewater volume pounds of SS and BOD to be treated;
      (4)   Proportion the estimated costs to residential and non-residential
users by volume, suspended solids and BOD; and
      (5)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons per mg/l in excess of normal sewage
strength for BOD and SS.
   (E)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the normal
concentrations for BOD (200 mg/l) and SS (240 mg/l). The surcharge will be
based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for all
wastes which exceed the 200 mg/l and 240 mg/l concentration for BOD and SS
respectively. See the Water Clerk for current applicable rates.
   (F)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed
annually by certified public accountants for the village in their annual audit
report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs
including replacement costs.
(1994 Code, § 38-4-10)
§ 52.21 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
ten gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part or all of his or her water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the Superintendent for the purpose of determining the volume of
water obtained from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the Superintendent if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
   (C)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, the meters may not be removed unless service is cancelled,
without the consent of the Superintendent.
(1994 Code, § 38-4-11)
§ 52.22 RATES.
   (A)   There shall be and there is hereby established a minimum charge and a
basic user rate for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater
facilities of the village. The following charges shall be the minimum charges
to all users whose water consumption does not exceed 2,000 gallons per month
for the time periods so indicated:
 
$20.20 For the year beginning July 1, 2020
 
   (B)   The following shall be the basic user rate 1,000 gallons or portion
thereof for water consumption in excess of 2,000 gallons per month for the
period so indicated:
 
$7.20 For the year beginning July 1, 2020
 
(1994 Code, § 38-4-12) (Ord. 88-14, passed 8-11-1988; Ord. 89-8, passed 11-9-
1989; Ord. 98-03, passed 5-5-1998; Ord. 14-08, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 16-05,
passed 6-7-2016; Ord. 20-06, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 52.23 REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the sewerage fund. All
those revenues and moneys shall be held by the Village Treasurer separate and
apart from his or her private funds and separate and apart from all other funds
of the village and all of the sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be
delivered to the Village Treasurer not more than ten days after receipt of the
same, or at more frequent intervals as may, from time to time, be directed by
the Mayor and Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Village Treasurer shall receive all the revenues from the sewerage
system and all other funds and moneys incident to the operation of the system
as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in the account
of the fund designated as the "Sewerage Fund of the Village". The Treasurer
shall administer the fund in every respect in the power provided by statute of
the Revised Cities and Villages Act, being ILCS Ch. 65, Act 20, §§ 0.01 et
seq., effective January, 1942.
(1994 Code, § 38-4-13)
§ 52.24 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and
at regular annual intervals, he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost to indicate that sewer service charges
under the waste cost recovery system do, in fact, meet these regulations.
   (C)   In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow date showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing date to show total number of gallons billed;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of non-metered users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging non-domestic wastes (commercial-
industrial users) and volume of waste discharged.
(1994 Code, § 38-4-14)
§ 52.25 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The State Environmental Protection Agency, or its authorized representative,
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the village
which are applicable to the village system of user charges for the purpose of
making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to insure
compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any federal/
state grant.
(1994 Code, § 38-4-15)
§ 52.26 WATER CLERK TO ARRANGE PAYMENT PLANS.
   The Water Clerk for the village is hereby authorized to enter into payment
plans on behalf of the village with those residents so desiring upon
presentation to and approval by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 01-08, passed 9-4-2001)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
53.020   Deposits of objectionable waste
   
53.021   Treatment required
   
53.022   Privy; septic tank; cesspool
   
53.023   On-site waste disposal system required
Private Sewage Disposal
   
53.035   Private sewage disposal system
   
53.036   Construction permit and inspection fee
   
53.037   Construction inspection
   
53.038   Code requirements
   
53.039   Sewer connection
   
53.040   Operation and maintenance
   
53.041   Health Officer requirements
Building Sewers and Connections
   
53.055   Permit required for sewer connection
   
53.056   Standards for discharge
   
53.057   Classes of permits and fees
   
53.058   Permit subject to system capacity
   
53.059   Installation costs
   
53.060   Separate connection required
   
53.061   Existing building sewers
   
53.062   Design and specifications
   
53.063   Elevations
   
53.064   Illegal connections of roof, down spouts and the like
   
53.065   Code requirements for connection to public sewer
   
53.066   Inspection by Superintendent
   
53.067   Barricades required
   
53.068   Surety bond required
Use of the Public Sewers
   
53.080   Prohibited discharges
   
53.081   Storm water
   
53.082   Prohibited waters and wastes
   
53.083   Prohibited substances
   
53.084   Alternatives for prohibited substances
   
53.085   Grease and oil interceptors
   
53.086   Pre-treatment and flow equalizing facilities
   
53.087   Control manhole for industry
   
53.088   Requirements of laboratory tests for industrial wastes
   
53.089   Methods of laboratory tests and sampling
   
53.090   Special consideration
Protection of Sewage Works from Damage
   
53.105   Protection
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
53.115   Authority for inspection
   
53.116   Safety rules and liability
   
53.117   Permit to enter easements
 
   
53.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Utilities in general, see
Chapter 50
   Utility rates, see
Chapter 52
   Water system, see
Chapter 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions enumerated. Unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the meaning of terms used in this chapter shall be as ascribed in
the following sections.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-1)
   (B)   Government.
      (1)   Federal government.
         ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
         FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.) as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of
Amendment of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-500) and (Pub. L. 93-243).
         FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. government participation in the financing of
the construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II-Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
      (2)   State government.
         DIRECTOR. The Director of Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
         STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970, being ILCS
Ch. 30, Act 405, §§ 1 et seq.
         STATE GRANT. The State of Illinois participation in the financing of
the construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-
Pollution Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of
State of the State of Illinois.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-2)
   (C)   Local government.
      APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Superintendent of the Department of Public
Works.
      CHAPTER. This chapter.
      NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirement issued by
the Administrator or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the
discharge of pollutants pursuant to § 402 of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1342.
      PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-3)
   (D)   Wastewater and its characteristics.
      BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
      EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable "NPDES permit".
      FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pre-treatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pre-treated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
      GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
      MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
         (a)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
         (b)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
         (c)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined
in standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317
(a) or
         (d)   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with
the issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works
receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries on that treatment works or upon
the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
      MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used
commonly, parts per million, to which it is approximately equivalent in
reporting the results of water and wastewater analysis.
      pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in Standard Methods.
      ppm. Parts per million by weight.
      POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial
or other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent to 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20 pounds of
suspended solids.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
      SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
      SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
      STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, of
course, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
      WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the water pollution regulations of
Illinois.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-4)
   (E)   Sewer types and appurtenances.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the
inner face of the building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and ground water drainage.
      EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sanitary (or combined sewer system), even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with village funds.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
      SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
      STORMWATER RUNOFF. That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-5)
   (F)   Treatment.
      PRE-TREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
      WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required
to collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL
PLANT.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-6)
   (G)   Watercourse and connections.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-7)
   (H)   User types.
      CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial
wastes are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop.
The purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
      INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   Any non-governmental user of publicly owned treatment works
identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of
Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions.
            1.   Division A: Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing.
            2.   Division B: Mining.
            3.   Division D: Manufacturing.
            4.   Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services.
            5.   Division I: Services.
         (b)   A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is
determined by the Superintendent that it will introduce primarily segregated
domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL or NON-INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user of the
treatment works not classified as an industrial user as provided for in this
section.
      USER CLASS. The type of user, either "residential or commercial" (non-
industrial) or "industrial" as defined herein.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-8)
   (I)   Types of charges.
      BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
      DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for
payment of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond and the like)
outstanding and shall be computed by dividing the annual debt service by the
number of users connected to the wastewater facilities.
      REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which those works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT.
      SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
      SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established elsewhere in this chapter.
      USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/
or treatment works will be operated and shall be 50/20 years from the date of
start-up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a state grant.
      USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance.
      WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in
Chapter 52 (see §
52.20) and shall consist of the total or the basic user charge, the debt
service charge and a surcharge, if applicable.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-9)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 53.020 DEPOSITS OF OBJECTIONABLE WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-11) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.021 TREATMENT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the village,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-12) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.022 PRIVY; SEPTIC TANK; CESSPOOL.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used
for the disposal of sewage.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-13) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.023 ON-SITE WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the village and
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located any public sanitary sewer of the village, is
hereby required, at his or her expense, to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after the date
of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 200 feet
(61 meters) of the property line.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-14)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 53.035 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
53.023 above, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-16)
§ 53.036 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent of Public Works.
   (B)   The application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the village, (reference
Chapter 54, Appendix C) which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $150 shall be paid to the
village at the time the application is filed.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-17)
§ 53.037 CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION.
   (A)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent.
   (B)   He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered.
   (C)   The inspection shall be made within 72 hours of the receipt of written
notice by the Superintendent.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-18)
§ 53.038 CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act, being ILCS Ch. 225, Act 225, §§ 1 et seq., and Code and
with the State Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for
any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption
facilities where the area of the lot is less than 20,000 square feet (1,858
square meters). No septic tank shall be permitted to discharge to any natural
outlet.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-19)
§ 53.039 SEWER CONNECTION.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
53.023 above, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-20)
§ 53.040 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, and not at expense to the village.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-21)
§ 53.041 HEALTH OFFICER REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Local Health Officer.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-22)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.055 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SEWER CONNECTION.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into; use; alter; or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-24)
§ 53.056 STANDARDS FOR DISCHARGE.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-25)
§ 53.057 CLASSES OF PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   (1)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the village. There shall be a permit
and inspection and application fee of $1,000 for residential, commercial or
industrial business users. The sewer permit and inspection and application fee
shall be paid to the village at the time the application is filed. Any
industrial user, as a condition of obtaining a permit, must provide information
describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of activity.
All persons desiring a sewer connection must be connected to the village water
system.
      (2)   The fee for any tap on for any line larger than two-inch shall
increase by $250 per half inch.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-26) (Ord. 98-03, passed 5-5-1998; Ord. 19-09, passed 6-18-
2019)
§ 53.058 PERMIT SUBJECT TO SYSTEM CAPACITY.
   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment facilities
have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently handle the
additional anticipated waste load.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-27)
§ 53.059 INSTALLATION COSTS.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer and septic tank shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly
be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-28)
§ 53.060 SEPARATE CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer and septic tank shall be provided
for every building, except that where one building stands at the rear of
another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer and septic tank.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-29)
§ 53.061 EXISTING BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-30)
§ 53.062 DESIGN AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer
and septic tank, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling in the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the village. In the absence of code provisions or in
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution
Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois shall apply.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-31)
§ 53.063 ELEVATIONS.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by the building drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in
accordance with §
53.056 above and discharged to the building sewer.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-32)
§ 53.064 ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS OF ROOF, DOWN SPOUTS AND THE LIKE.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof down spouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain, which, in turn, is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-33) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.065 CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.
   (B)   All the connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any such
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-34)
§ 53.066 INSPECTION BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his or her representative. (See
Chapter 54, Appendix D).
(1994 Code, § 38-5-35)
§ 53.067 BARRICADES REQUIRED.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-36)
§ 53.068 SURETY BOND REQUIRED.
   Any person making an authorized connection from a building sewer to the
sanitary sewer line shall be licensed by the village to engage in the work and
shall be required to deposit with the Village Clerk a surety bond in the amount
of $5,000 to indemnify the village against any loss or damage resulting from
the work of the license holder.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-37)
USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 53.080 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-38) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.081 STORM WATER.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to the
storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the
Superintendent to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-39)
§ 53.082 PROHIBITED WATERS AND WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-40) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.083 PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that the wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance.
   (B)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes,
the Superintendent will give consideration to factors such as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°
and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works, exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for those materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste-or-odor-
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time, except as permitted by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations;
      (10)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time, except as
permitted by the Superintendent in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations;
      (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      (12)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters. See
Chapter 54, Appendix B.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-41) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.084 ALTERNATIVES FOR PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
53.083 above; and/or which are in violation of the standards for pre-treatment
provided in the EPA's most current applicable regulations, and which, in the
judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pre-treatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
53.089 below.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pre-treatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-42)
§ 53.085 GREASE AND OIL INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-43)
§ 53.086 PRE-TREATMENT AND FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner, at his or her expense.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-44)
§ 53.087 CONTROL MANHOLE FOR INDUSTRY.
   (A)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with the necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes.
   (B)   The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-45)
§ 53.088 REQUIREMENTS OF LABORATORY TESTS FOR INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   The owner of any property services by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of water and
wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special conditions
for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type and frequency of laboratory
analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village,
but no less than once per year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of
the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the
federal, state and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the
results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the village at such times
and in such manner as prescribed by the village. The owner shall bear the
expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by the village. At
such times as deemed necessary, the village reserves the right to take
measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-46)
§ 53.089 METHODS OF LABORATORY TESTS AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole.
   (B)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property. That particular analyses involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premise is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD
and suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all
outfalls, whereas pH's are determined from periodic grab samples.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-47)
§ 53.090 SPECIAL CONSIDERATION.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance with §§
53.020 through
53.023 above by the industrial concern, provided the payments are in accordance
with federal and state guidelines for user charge system.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-48)
PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE
§ 53.105 PROTECTION.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is a part of the sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-50) Penalty, see §
53.999
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 53.115 AUTHORITY FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village,
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing at all reasonable times in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or his or her representative shall not have
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or
facilities for waste treatment.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-52)
§ 53.116 SAFETY RULES AND LIABILITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
53.115 above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the village,
the State Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
village employees and the village shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by village employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
53.088 above.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-53)
§ 53.117 PERMIT TO ENTER EASEMENTS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-54)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Notice. Any person found to be violating any provision of this
chapter, except §
53.105, shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations. The village may revoke any permit for
sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-56)
   (B)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $200 for each
violation.
      (2)   Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-57)
   (C)   Liabilities. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall become liable to the village by reason of the violation.
(1994 Code, § 38-5-58)
CHAPTER 54: UTILITY EXTENSIONS
Section
   
54.01   Application
   
54.02   Plat of proposed extension
   
54.03   Engineer to prepare plans
   
54.04   Sealed bids; larger pipe required
   
54.05   Contract
   
Appendix A:    Utilities extension contract
   
Appendix B:    Objectionable material
   
Appendix C:    Private waste disposal application
   
Appendix D:    Industrial sewer connection application
   
Appendix E:    Residential or commercial building sewer application
§ 54.01 APPLICATION.
   Any person within the service areas of the utility systems and desiring the
extension of the mains to the premises shall make application therefor to the
Water and Sewer Department, and in making the application, shall present a plat
showing the area to be served by the main extension.
(1994 Code, § 38-6-1)
§ 54.02 PLAT OF PROPOSED EXTENSION.
   The plat shall be submitted by the Village Clerk to the Engineer and the
Superintendent of Water and Sewer of the village for determination of the size
and lengths of the utilities installations, location of fire hydrants, water
service valves and other appurtenances to be installed based upon the following
provisions.
   (A)   Mains shall be sized so that fire protection service may be rendered
to all lots or premises to be served by the main and any possible extension
thereof.
   (B)   Fire hydrants shall be so located that no premises will be more than
600 feet from a fire hydrant.
   (C)   In determining the length of pipe lines to be installed to serve a
main extension, the main shall be extended to fully cover the front of the
property, and if the last lot to be served is a corner lot or a lot immediately
adjacent to a corner lot, the terminal point of the extension made hereunder
shall be located so that the main laid hereunder ties with the existing main
located in the intersecting street; and further provided that if there is no
main located on the intersecting street, or no intersecting street, the
terminal point of the extension made hereunder shall be located at the nearest
street line of the intersecting street, or extend to the furthest end of the
development.
   (D)   (1)   The village may require the proposed main to be connected to its
distribution system at a point which, in its judgment, is necessary to
adequately furnish water to premises to be served and nothing herein shall
require the village to allow connection to the closest point of existing
service if the service is inadequate for the extension proposed.
      (2)   Main trunk lines may be installed by the village at no cost to the
developer, however, lots or properties fronting directly thereon which may be
served by a service connection to the main will be charged the average amount
per connection as found in subdivisions currently being constructed.
   (E)   The village reserves the right to further extend its water mains from
and beyond the terminus of each water main extension made under this chapter.
The applicant or applicant's agent paying for an extension shall not be
entitled to any refund for the attaching of customers to any further extension
or branch mains so involved.
   (F)   Extensions made under this rule shall be and remain the property of
the village.
   (G)   Before the village mains will be laid hereunder in any new
subdivision, it is understood and agreed that the road surface will be brought
to the extended sub-grade and the applicant, developer of the new subdivision
shall furnish the village with a right-of-way agreement in suitable form to the
village, unless the streets of the new subdivision have been dedicated to
public use.
   (H)   When a pipe line is to be installed in a paved or unpaved street, a
service line of three-fourths-inch Type "K" Copper is to be provided to the
center line of each lot for a one-family dwelling. The service line is to
terminate at a point three feet to five feet inside the property line in a
meter box. When a business or an apartment house is to be serviced, contact the
Utilities Department to obtain the proper size for the service.
(1994 Code, § 38-6-2)
§ 54.03 ENGINEER TO PREPARE PLANS.
   (A)   After approval of the design, plans and specifications shall be
prepared in accordance with the foregoing and with specifications for utility
main extensions from time to time adopted by the village Board.
   (B)   The plans and specifications shall be prepared by the Village
Engineer, or a civil engineer acceptable to the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 38-6-3)
§ 54.04 SEALED BIDS; LARGER PIPE REQUIRED.
   Sealed bids shall be received by the Village Board after advertisement not
less than ten days prior to the date of the receiving of the bids and after
receipt thereof, the applicant shall deposit with the Village Clerk the entire
cost, based upon the lowest responsible bid; the cost to include the entire
cost of the proposed extension, including pipes, valves, fittings, fire
hydrants, all other material and all costs of engineering and inspection.
Excepting that if the village should require the installation of a size of pipe
larger than is found by the village engineering standard to be necessary for
the subdivision, then the deposit shall be based upon the cost of installing
the size determined to be necessary for the subdivision, with the village
stating the additional cost for a larger line.
(1994 Code, § 38-6-4)
§ 54.05 CONTRACT.
   Upon a deposit of the moneys by the applicant as hereinbefore required, a
contract shall be entered into between the applicant and the village, as
follows in
Appendix A. See "Subdivision Code" for provisions applicable to new
subdivisions.
(1994 Code, § 38-6-5)
APPENDIX A: UTILITIES EXTENSION CONTRACT
UTILITIES EXTENSION CONTRACT
   AGREEMENT made and entered into this ________ day of
_________________________ by and between the Utility System of the Village of
South Roxana, Illinois, hereinafter called the Utility Department and
_______________________________, hereinafter called the Depositor.
FIRST: That the Utility Department contracts and agrees to have installed by
contract in accordance with its rules, utility mains as shown on the plat
thereof, and the specifications are attached hereto and made a part hereof.
SECOND: Bids having been taken and the lowest responsible bid having been in
the amount of $_______, the Depositor agrees to deposit and does deposit here
with the cost thereof.
   (A)   The lowest responsible bid: $______________
   (B)   Engineering and Inspection Charge: $______________
   (C)   Total: $______________
THIRD: Final costs to be adjusted up or down according to completed job cost.
FOURTH: The ownership of the utility mains laid herein shall be at all times in
the Utility Department, its successors and assigns.
FIFTH: This Agreement shall be valid and binding on the Utility Department only
when signed by the Mayor and Clerk of the Village of South Roxana, Illinois.
SIXTH: This Agreement shall be binding upon the heirs, executors,
administrators, successors or assigns of the respective parties.
   EXECUTED in duplicate by the parties hereto on the date first above written.
UTILITY DEPARTMENT
VILLAGE OF SOUTH ROXANA, ILLINOIS
BY:    _______________________________________
   MAYOR
   ________________________________________
   DEPOSITOR
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
CITY CLERK
WITNESSES:
___________________________________________
___________________________________________
APPENDIX B: OBJECTIONABLE MATERIAL
Parameter Concentration mg/l
          Daily Maximum Monthly Average
Parameter                   Concentration mg/l
                            Daily Maximum Monthly Average
Arsenic (total)             0.25
Barium (total               2.0
Cadmium (total)             0.15
Chromium (total Hexavalent) 0.3
Chromium (total Trivalent)  1.0
Copper (total)              1.0
Cyanide                                   0.10
Fluoride (total)            15.0
Iron (total)                2.0
Iron (dissolved)            0.5
Lead (total)                0.1
Manganese (total)           1.0
Mercury (total)             0.0005
Nickel (total)              1.0
Oil (fats and greases)                    15.0
pH                          range 5-10
Phenols                     0.3
Selenium                    1.0
Silver                      0.1
Zinc (total)                1.0
 
APPENDIX C: PRIVATE WASTE DISPOSAL APPLICATION
PERMIT APPLICATION FORMS
PRIVATE WASTE DISPOSAL APPLICATION
TO THE VILLAGE OF ____________________________:
   The undersigned, being the ___________________________ of the property
located at
               (owner; owner's agent)
______________________________________, does hereby request a permit to install
sanitary sewage
   (Number)      (Street)
disposal facilities to serve the ______________________________________________
at the location.
               (residence, commercial building, etc.)
1.   The proposed facilities include:
______________________________________________________, to be constructed in
complete accordance with the plans and specifications attached hereunto as
Exhibit "A".
2.   The area of the property is _____________ square feet (or square meters).
3.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work is
_____________________
__________________________________________.
4.   The maximum number of persons to be served by the proposed facilities is
_____________.
5.   The locations and nature of all sources of private or public water supply
within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of any boundary of said property are shown on the
plat attached hereunto as Exhibit "B".
In consideration of the granting of this permit, the undersigned agrees:
1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the proposed work that
shall be requested by the Superintendent.
2.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the Revised Code of the Village,
and of all other pertinent codes or regulations that may be adopted in the
future.
3.   To operate and maintain the wastewater disposal facilities covered by this
application in a sanitary manner at all times in compliance with all
requirements of the Superintendent and at no expense to the Village.
4.   To notify the Superintendent at least 24 hours prior to commencement of
the work proposed, and again at least 24 hours prior to the covering of any
underground portions of the installation.
DATE: _____________________________       SIGNED: ___________________________
                     (Applicant)
$ ____________   (inspection fee
paid)      _______________________________________
                     (Address of Applicant)
Application approved and permit issued:
DATE: _________________________
____________________________________________
(Certification)
by
(Superintendent)
APPENDIX D: INDUSTRIAL SEWER CONNECTION APPLICATION
INDUSTRIAL SEWER CONNECTION APPLICATION
TO THE VILLAGE OF _______________________________:
   The undersigned, being the ________________________________ of the property
located at
               (owner, lessee, tenant, etc.)
______________________________________, does hereby request a permit to install
an industrial
(residence, commercial building, etc.)
sewer connection serving the
___________________________________________________________,
               (Name of company)
which company is engaged in ______________________________ at said location.
1.   A plan of the property showing accurately all sewers and drains now
existing is attached hereunto as Exhibit "A".
2.   Plans and specifications covering any work proposed to be performed under
this permit is attached hereunto as Exhibit "B".
3.   A complete schedule of all process waters and industrial wastes produced
or expected to be produced at said property, including a description of the
character of each waste, the daily volume and maximum rates of discharge, and
representative analyses, is attached hereunto as Exhibit "C".
4.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work
covered by this permit is
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________.
In consideration of the granting of this permit, the undersigned agrees:
1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the installation or use
of the industrial sewer for which this permit is sought as may be requested by
the Superintendent.
2.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the Revised Code of the village
and of all other pertinent codes or regulations that may be adopted in the
future.
3.   To operate and maintain any waste pre-treatment facilities, as may be
required as a condition of the acceptance into the public sewer industrial
wastes involved, in an efficient manner at all times, and expense to the
Village.
4.   To cooperate at all times with the Superintendent and his representatives
in their inspecting, sampling, and study of the industrial wastes, and any
facilities provided for pre-treatment.
5.   To notify the Superintendent immediately in the event of any accident,
negligence or other occurrence that occasions discharge to the public sewers of
any wastes or process waters not covered by this permit.
DATE: ____________________   SIGNED:    ____________________________________
                     (Applicant)
$ _________________________ (inspection fee
paid)   ____________________________________
                        (Address of applicant)
Application approved and permit issued:
DATE: ___________________________   ___________________________________
                  (Certification)
                  by
                  (Superintendent)
APPENDIX E: RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL BUILDING SEWER APPLICATION
RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL BUILDING SEWER APPLICATION
TO THE VILLAGE OF ___________________________________________:
   The undersigned, being the ___________________________________ of the
property located at
               (owner; owner's agent)
______________________________________, does hereby request a permit to install
sanitary sewage
   (Number)   (Street)
disposal facilities to serve the ______________________________________________
at said location.
                (residence, commercial building, etc.)
1.   The following indicated fixtures will be connected to the proposed
building sewer:
NUMBER   FIXTURE      NUMBER      FIXTURE
_______   Kitchen Sinks      _______      Water closets
_______   Lavatories      _______      Bathtubs
_______   Laundry Tubs      _______      Showers
_______   Urinals         _______      Garbage Grinders
Specify other fixtures:
___________________________________________________________
2.   The maximum number of persons who will use the above fixture(s) is
_________.
3.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the proposed
work is __________
___________________________________________________________________________________.
4.   Plans and specifications for the proposed building sewer are attached
hereunder as Exhibit "A".
In consideration of the granting of this permit, the undersigned agrees:
1.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the Revised Code of the Village
and of all other pertinent codes or regulations that may be adopted in the
future.
2.   To maintain the building sewer at no expense to the Village.
3.   To notify the Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer, but before any portion of the
work is covered.
DATE: ______________________      SIGNED:    __________________________________
                        (Applicant)
$ ____________ (inspection fee
paid)         ___________________________________________
                        (Address of Applicant)
Application approved an permit issued:
DATE: __________________________________      (Certification)
                        by
                        (Superintendent)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   VEHICLE LICENSES
      
71.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
73.   IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: VEHICLE LICENSES
Section
   
70.01   (Reserved)
   
70.02   (Reserved)
   
70.03   Issuance of license
   
70.04   (Reserved)
   
70.05   Replacement license
   
70.06   (Reserved)
   
70.07   Supplying license
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 (RESERVED).
§ 70.02 (RESERVED).
§ 70.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon payment by applicant of the license fee hereafter set forth to the
Village Treasurer, the Village Clerk shall issue or cause to be issued a
license duly signed by the Village Clerk authorizing the operation of the
automobile, truck or motorcycle, over, upon and along the streets, avenues,
alleys and public places within the village until the expiration of the
license.
(1994 Code, § 39-1-3)
§ 70.04 (RESERVED).
§ 70.05 REPLACEMENT LICENSE.
   (A)   When a person operating a motor-driven unit of any kind for which a
license fee has been paid, sells or transfers the motor-driven unit for which a
license fee has been paid, as required under this code, the decal shall be
mutilated by the operator and upon proper application to the Village Clerk by
exhibiting the initial receipt received by the operator for the transferred
motor-driven unit, an additional license decal shall be issued.
   (B)   Should the purchaser of any such automobile, truck or motorcycle,
lose, misplace or have stolen or destroyed his or her license decal, the
purchaser may, upon application to the Village Clerk, and upon advising him or
her that the license decal had been lost, misplaced, stolen or destroyed, and
upon giving the Clerk, in writing, under oath, with his or her name signed
thereto, all information known to him or her concerning the place and
conditions under which the license decal was lost, misplaced, stolen or
destroyed may receive a new license decal which shall be issued to the
purchaser by the Village Clerk.
(1994 Code, § 39-1-5)
§ 70.06 (RESERVED).
§ 70.07 SUPPLYING LICENSE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall supply to the owner of the automobile, motor
truck or motorcycle, registered in his or her office, as herein provided, one
number decal for each automobile, motor truck or motorcycle, which shall be
conspicuously displayed thereon and shall be firmly attached to the windshield
of the automobile, auto truck and firmly attached to some part of the
motorcycle, and shall, at all times, be kept clean and free from all grease and
dirt.
   (B)   The type of number decals to be used shall be designated by the
Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 39-1-7)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of this code who shall drive or operate any motor-
driven unit as described above, or permit the same to stand upon or travel over
and along the public streets, avenues, boulevards, alleys or public premises
within the village shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided in §
10.99.
(1994 Code, § 39-1-8)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.001   Definitions
   
71.002   Obedience to police
   
71.003   Scene of fire
   
71.004   Signs and signals
   
71.005   Unauthorized signs
   
71.006   Interference with signs or signals
   
71.007   Advertising signs
   
71.008   Animals or bicycles
   
71.009   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
Stop and Through Streets
   
71.020   Through streets
   
71.021   One-way streets or alleys
   
71.022   Stop streets
   
71.023   Yield right-of-way streets
   
71.024   Posting signs
Driving Rules
   
71.035   Illinois Vehicle Code; rules of the road adopted
   
71.036   Driving rules
   
71.037   Duty to report accident
   
71.038   Dirt-bikes, go-karts and ATVs
Equipment of Vehicles
   
71.050   Illinois Vehicle Code; equipment of vehicles adopted
   
71.051   Excessive noise; stopped vehicle
   
71.052   Noise; wheels
   
71.053   Squealing tires
   
71.054   Muffler
   
71.055   Reckless, negligent or careless driving
   
71.056   Excessive noise while driving
Parking Rules
   
71.070   Time limit parking
   
71.071   Parking for sale or repair
   
71.072   Stopping, standing or parking in specified places
   
71.073   Load limits
   
71.074   Exceptions
   
71.075   Towing cars away
   
71.076   Prima facie proof
Golf Carts
   
71.080   Definitions
   
71.081   Requirements
   
71.082   Permits
 
   
71.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.001 DEFINITIONS.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-100, entitled, "Title
and Definitions," as passed, approved and amended by the Illinois General
Assembly is hereby adopted by the village, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the corporate limits of the village.
(1994 Code, § 24-1-1)
§ 71.002 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department, special police, auxiliary police and
marshals assigned to traffic duty are hereby authorized to direct all traffic
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, or in emergencies as
public safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction
of a police officer.
   (B)   Except in cases of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(1994 Code, § 24-2-1) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command or any firefighter designated by him
or her may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as the Fire Department equipment is on the scene
in the absence of or in assisting the Police Department.
(1994 Code, § 24-2-2)
§ 71.004 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
corporate authorities or in accordance with the laws of the state, excepting on
direction of a police officer.
   (B)   All signs and signals established by direction of the governing body
shall conform to the Illinois State Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
for Streets and Highways.
(1994 Code, § 24-2-3) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.005 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street, any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, light, reflector or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-
control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic, nor shall any person place, maintain or display upon or in
view of any street, any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the
movement of traffic or effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising.
   (B)   No tree, bush or foliage of any kind shall be so placed, maintained,
allowed to remain, or be displayed upon either public or private property in
such a manner as to hide from view or interfere with the movement of traffic or
the effectiveness of any traffic-control device, sign or signal.
(1994 Code, § 24-2-4) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.006 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(1994 Code, § 24-2-5) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.007 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain anywhere in the village, any sign,
signal, marking or device, other than a traffic sign or signal authorized by
the Village Board or the State Department of Public Works and Buildings, which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal, in view of any street or highway, and it
shall be unlawful to place or maintain any sign which hides from view any
lawful traffic-control device.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate in view of any street or
highway, any flashing or rotating beacon of light.
(1994 Code, § 24-2-6) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.008 ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Any person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this code
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal.
(1994 Code, § 24-2-7) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.009 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front, which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
approved by the Department, which shall be visible from a distance from 100
feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of
head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use any
siren upon a bicycle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold the bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector or conforming to specifications
prescribed by the state on each pedal, visible from the front and rear of the
bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. The reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle provided. The requirements of
this division (E) may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least
three-sixteenths of an inch wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate
as clearly as possible the continuous circular shape and size of the tires or
rims of the bicycle and which reflective materials may be of the same color on
both the front and rear tire or rim. The reflectors shall conform to
specifications prescribed by the state.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(1994 Code, § 24-2-8) Penalty, see §
71.999
STOP AND THROUGH STREETS
§ 71.020 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The streets and parts of streets of the village designated by
ordinance as "through streets" are hereby declared to be through streets.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street
and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard unless directed otherwise by the traffic
officer. See the schedule available in the office of the Village Clerk.
(1994 Code, § 24-3-1) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.021 ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys
designated as one-way streets or alleys by ordinance in any direction other
than that so designated. See the schedule available in the office of the
Village Clerk.
(1994 Code, § 24-3-2) (Ord. 10-11, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.022 STOP STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to ordinance at one or more
entrances thereto and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the vehicles not so
obliged to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at the intersection is
controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event, the directions of the
police officer shall be complied with. See the schedule available in the office
of the Village Clerk.
(1994 Code, § 24-3-3)
§ 71.023 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and if
required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or if
none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
   (B)   After slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as
to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across
or within the intersection. See the schedule available in the office of the
Village Clerk.
(1994 Code, § 24-3-4)
§ 71.024 POSTING SIGNS.
   Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through, stop and yield right-
of-way streets; all one-way streets and alleys; and all stop intersections.
(1994 Code, § 24-3-5)
DRIVING RULES
§ 71.035 ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE; RULES OF THE ROAD ADOPTED.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-100, entitled "Rules of
the Road," as passed, approved and amended by the Illinois General Assembly is
hereby adopted by the village and the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the village, except for the following changes,
deletions and omissions:
   (A)   Omissions. Omit §§ 11-202, 11-204, 11-207, 11-208, 11-208.1, 11-208.2,
11-209, 11-209.1, 11-211, 11-302, 11-303, 11-310(f), 11-313, 11-401 to and
including 11-416, 11-500(i), 11-501(c), 11-501.1, the last paragraph beginning
with "notwithstanding" and ending with "appropriate;" 11-502, the last sentence
beginning with "a" and ending with "offense;" 11-503, 11-504, first paragraph
beginning with "any" and ending with "amended;" 11-602, 11-603, 11-604, 11-606
(b), 11-608 and 11-1422.
   (B)   Changes and additions.
      (1)   Change 11-904(a) to read: "Preferential right-of-way at an
intersection may be indicated by stop or yield signs as authorized by this
Code."
      (2)   Change 11-1204(a) to read: "Preferential right-of-way at an
intersection may be indicated by stop signs or yield signs as authorized by
this Code."
      (3)   Change 11-1416(a) to read: "Any person who shall willfully and
unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other person in lawfully
driving and traveling upon or along any highway within this state or who shall
offer for barter or sale, merchandise on said highway so as to interfere with
the effective movement of traffic shall upon conviction, be guilty of a
violation of this Code."
(1994 Code, § 24-4-1)
§ 71.036 DRIVING RULES.
   (A)   Careless driving. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in the
village in a careless manner so as to interfere with the safe or lawful
operation of any other vehicle or so as to interfere with or to injure, damage
or endanger persons or property engaged in the lawful use of the street.
   (B)   Drag racing unlawful. No person shall be a participant in drag racing
as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-504 of the statutes of the state.
   (C)   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer. Any driver or operator
of a motor vehicle who, having been given a visual or audible signal by a
police officer, directing the driver or operator to bring his or her vehicle to
a stop, willfully fails to or refuses to obey the direction, increases his or
her speed, extinguishes his or her lights or otherwise flees or attempts to
elude the officer is guilty of a violation of this chapter. The signal given by
the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren, red or blue light. Provided,
the officer giving the signal shall be in police uniform and if driving a
vehicle, the vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official police
vehicle.
   (D)   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker. The Department of Local
Authorities, with reference to traffic-control signals, signs or markers owned
by the Department of Local Authorities, are authorized to indicate the
ownership of the signs, signals or markers on the back of the devices in
letters not less than three-eighths-inch or more than three-quarter-inch in
height, by use of a metal stamp, etching or other permanent means and, except
for employees of the Department of Local Authorities, police officers,
contractors and their employees engaged in highway construction contract or
work on the highway approved by the Department of Local Authorities, it is a
violation of this chapter for any person to possess the sign, signal or marker
so identified.
   (E)   Special speed limitations on elevated structures. No person shall
drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part
of a highway at a speed which is greater than the maximum speed which can be
maintained with safety to the bridge or structure when the structure is sign-
posted. Upon the trial of any person charged with the violation of this
section, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the village and the
existence of the signs is conclusive evidence of the maximum speed which can be
maintained with safety to the bridge or structure.
   (F)   General speed restrictions. The speed limits on various streets shall
be approved by the Village Board, but shall not exceed 20 mph in a school zone
and not to exceed 25 mph in a residential street; otherwise, 30 mph on an
arterial street, unless otherwise posted. See the schedule available in the
office of the Village Clerk.
   (G)   Special speed limit while passing schools. No person shall drive a
motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 mph while passing a school zone or
while traveling upon any public thoroughfare on or across which children pass
going to and from school during school days when school children are present.
This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are posted upon
streets and maintained by the village or state wherein the school zone is
located. See the schedule available in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (H)   Failure to reduce speed. A vehicle shall be driven upon the streets
and alleys of this village at a speed which is reasonable and proper with
regard to traffic conditions and the use of the street or alley. The fact that
the vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve
the driver of the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection or when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrian or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased
as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
   (I)   Traffic lane usage. Whenever any roadway within the village has been
divided into two or more clearly marked lanes for traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a single lane and shall not be
moved from the lane until the driver has first ascertained that the movement
can be made with safety.
(1994 Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.037 DUTY TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
within the village shall, without unnecessary delay, notify the Police
Department and shall make a report of that action.
   (B)   Failure to report an accident within the village within 24 hours shall
result in arrests of the person or persons involved.
(1994 Code, § 24-4-3)
§ 71.038 DIRT-BIKES, GO-KARTS AND ATVS.
   (A)   Purpose. To protect the health, safety and welfare of village
residential neighborhoods from excessive and unnecessary noise, dust and fumes.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ATV. Any motorized off-highway vehicle designed to travel on three or
more low-pressure tires powered by one or more internal combustion engine(s).
      DIRT-BIKE. Any two-wheeled bicycle, minibike, trail bike and/or
motorcycle powered by one or more internal combustion engine(s).
      DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed and used exclusively
for residential purposes, within an area zoned for residential use or legally
nonconforming for such use under the South Roxana Zoning Code.
      GO-KART. Any vehicle with three or more wheels powered by one or more
internal combustion engine(s), excluding tractors, agricultural machinery and
vehicles used for the care and maintenance of property.
   (C)   Operation on village streets. ATVs, dirt bikes, and go karts may not
operate on village streets, property, alleys, or easements.
   (D)   Prohibition.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit the
operation of a dirt-bike, ATV or go-kart on private property within the
corporate limits of the village, if said operation is within 300 feet of a
dwelling, as defined herein.
      (2)   Dust limitation. No person shall operate any ATV or dirt bike in
any manner which creates dust which crosses on to any adjoining or adjacent
property. Visible dust, mud or debris shall not leave the property boundaries
of the parcel where vehicles governed by this chapter are operated.
      (3)   Noise limitation. No person shall operate an ATV or dirt bike
without an effective and suitable muffling device on its engine which
efficiently deadens or muffles the noise of the exhaust. Operation of an ATV or
dirt bike shall be subject to and compliant with the noise limitations,
restrictions, and requirements.
      (4)   Setback requirements. A person operating an ATV or dirt bike on
private property must remain at least 100 feet from any adjoining or adjacent
property line and must remain at least 300 feet from an off-site residential
dwelling.
   (E)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the operation of
tractors, agricultural or construction machinery and vehicles used during the
care and maintenance of property.
      (2)   All-terrain vehicles owned and operated by a governmental entity
for official use.
   (F)   Presumption of accountability. The occupant of the property or
residential unit on which the prohibited activity takes place shall be presumed
to have permitted the activity to occur and shall be deemed responsible for the
illegal activity and shall be subject to the same punishment.
   (G)   Administration and enforcement. It shall be the duty of the Chief of
Police or his or her designee, to administer and enforce the regulations
contained herein.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 5-4-2021)
EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES
§ 71.050 ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE; EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES ADOPTED.
   The ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-100, entitled, "Equipment of Vehicles," as
passed, approved and amended by the Illinois General Assembly is hereby adopted
by the village and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
corporate limits of the village, except for the following omissions: the last
sentence of § 12-205, beginning with "the" and ending with "act," §§ 12-605,
12-605.1.
(1994 Code, § 24-5-1) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.051 EXCESSIVE NOISE; STOPPED VEHICLE.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor vehicle is stopped,
unreasonably accelerate the engine thereof with the gears of the vehicle in
neutral, thereby causing an unreasonably loud or excessive noise.
(1994 Code, § 24-5-2) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.052 NOISE; WHEELS.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor vehicle is stopped,
accelerate the engine with the gears of the vehicle in neutral and while so
accelerating the engine, shift the gears of the vehicle into a forward or
reverse movement, thereby causing an unreasonably loud noise with the rear
wheels of the vehicle.
(1994 Code, § 24-5-3) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.053 SQUEALING TIRES.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall accelerate the engine thereof when
shifting the gears of the vehicle in such a manner as to cause the rear wheels
of the vehicle to spin violently, thereby causing an unreasonably loud or
excessive noise.
(1994 Code, § 24-5-4) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.054 MUFFLER.
   (A)   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless the vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition; and the use of a
cut-out is prohibited.
   (B)   No muffler shall cause an unreasonably loud or excessive noise.
(1994 Code, § 24-5-5) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.055 RECKLESS, NEGLIGENT OR CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the village in a careless,
reckless, negligent or wanton manner, or carelessly so as to endanger life or
property.
(1994 Code, § 24-5-6) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.056 EXCESSIVE NOISE WHILE DRIVING.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when operating the vehicle, accelerate
the vehicle or rapidly stop the vehicle causing an unreasonably loud noise.
(1994 Code, § 24-5-7) Penalty, see §
71.999
PARKING RULES
§ 71.070 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a period of time in excess of
the amount of time designated by law and so posted. See the schedule available
in the office of the Village Clerk.
(1994 Code, § 24-6-1) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.071 PARKING FOR SALE OR REPAIR.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except when emergency
repairs are necessary.
(1994 Code, § 24-6-2) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.072 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control devices, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers;
         (l)   In any alley or village easement; or
         (m)   Upon or near any water meter which could obstruct access.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly sign-posted); or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Parking a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as is unlawful.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for motor vehicles of the second division to be
parked on any street within the corporate limits of the village except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers, or loading or unloading of a
delivery service.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 5-4-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.073 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   There is hereby established "gross load limits" on certain village
streets. The term GROSS LOAD LIMIT shall mean the total weight of a vehicle and
the load it is carrying.
   (B)   The specified streets and the load limits are hereby listed in the
schedule available in the office of the Village Clerk.
(1994 Code, § 24-6-4) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.074 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not include a vehicle making actual deliveries to
customers or pickup trucks, trucks operated by the village maintenance and
repairs on the above described street or the operation of a vehicle owned by
the U.S. government or the state, while on lawful business of these agencies.
(1994 Code, § 24-6-5)
§ 71.075 TOWING CARS AWAY.
   (A)   The Police Department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty
are hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service, any car, boat, trailer or other vehicle illegally
parked in any place where the parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic
hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the
movement of any emergency vehicle; or any vehicle which has been parked in any
public street or other public place for a period of 24 hours.
   (B)   Vehicles towed away shall be stored on any village property or in a
public garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator
thereof after payment of the expense incurred by the village in removing and
storing the vehicle(s).
(1994 Code, § 24-6-6)
§ 71.076 PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   The fact that a vehicle which is illegally parked or operated is registered
in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that the person
was in control of the vehicle at the time of the violation.
(1994 Code, § 24-6-8) Penalty, see §
71.999
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purpose of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private course.
(Ord. 12-13, passed 10-15-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Golf cart, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-123.9
§ 71.081 REQUIREMENTS.
   All persons operating a golf cart on the designated streets of the village
must comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Proof of liability insurance on said vehicle;
   (B)   Must display Village of South Roxana decal on front and rear of
vehicle;
   (C)   Must be inspected by Chief of Police;
   (D)   Must have valid driver's license;
   (E)   Must be equipped with a full windshield, tires, horn, breaks, turn
signals, a steering wheel, a rearview mirror, red reflective warning devices in
the front and the rear, a slow moving vehicle emblem (as required of other
vehicles in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-709 on the rear of the vehicle, a
headlight that emits a white light that is visible from a distance of 500 feet
in front of the vehicle, a tail lamp that emits a red light that is visible
from a distance of 100 feet from the rear of a vehicle, and brake lights. When
operated on a roadway, a golf cart shall have its headlights and taillights
lighted;
   (F)   Must obey all traffic laws of the State of Illinois and Village of
South Roxana;
   (G)   Must be at least 18 years of age;
   (H)   Can be driven on any street within the village, except Madison Avenue
and Route 111;
   (I)   No modifications allowed to the suspension or motor of the golf cart;
   (J)   Must not exceed 25 mile per hour;
   (K)   Crossing of state highway when authorized by State of Illinois
Department of Transportation;
   (L)   May only be operated between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.;
   (M)   Golf carts shall not be operated in inclement weather nor when
visibility it impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or other conditions; or at any
time when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on
the roadway at a distance of 500 feet. The village Police shall determine when
conditions are not appropriate for the safe operation of golf cart;
   (N)   A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a golf cart on
a roadway while under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs is subject to ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-500 through 11-502;
   (O)   Golf carts may not be operated on sidewalks or other public property
not accessible to or authorized to vehicular traffic;
   (P)   Golf carts may not be operated on streets or highways and roads under
the jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of Transportation (Madison Avenue
and Route 111) or the County Highway Department;
   (Q)   Golf carts may not be operated on state or county or township roads
except to cross at designated streets when authorized by State of Illinois
Department of Transportation, County Highway Department or Township Highway
Department as applicable;
   (R)   All drivers of a golf cart shall comply and be responsible for
following and obeying ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §12-603.1 in regard to the Illinois
Child Protection Act with the proper us of seat belts and/or child safety
seats.
(Ord. 12-13, passed 10-15-2012; Ord. 13-01, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 71.082 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart without obtaining a permit from
the Village Clerk as provided herein. Permits shall be granted for a period of
one year and may be renewed annually. The cost of a permit is $50. Insurance
coverage is to be verified to be in effect by the Village Clerk when obtaining
and renewing permit.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
Village Clerk and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      (2)   Name and phone number of liability insurance carrier;
      (3)   The serial number, make, model and description with photo of the
golf cart;
      (4)   Signed waiver of liability by applicant releasing the village from
any and all future claims resulting from the operation of their golf cart
pursuant to this subchapter or any other ordinance of the Village of South
Roxana;
      (5)   Photocopy of applicable liability coverage card specifically for
the golf cart to be operated on village streets;
      (6)   Such other information as the village may require.
   (C)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The golf cart must be inspected by the Police Chief to insure that
the vehicle is safe to operate on village streets and is in compliance with the
requirements of this subchapter;
      (2)   Any handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed by a
physician that he/she is handicapped and is able to safely operate a motorized
golf cart;
      (3)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of Illinois Statutes regarding minimum liability insurance for
passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads in the State of Illinois.
   (D)   A golf cart will be allowed to be driven to the Police Department to
have vehicle permitted and inspected.
   (E)   The Village Board of Trustees may suspend or revoke a permit granted
hereunder upon a finding that the holder thereof has violated any of the
provisions of this subchater or if there is evidence that the permittee cannot
safely operate the golf cart. Also, the Village Board of Trustees may revoke
the permit if permitee violates any traffic laws as defined in the Vehicle Code
of the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   (F)   Every person operating a golf cart pursuant to the permit hereunder on
designated village streets has all the rights and duties applicable to a driver
of any other vehicle pursuant to the State of Illinois highway traffic laws and
regulations except when those provisions cannot reasonably be applied to golf
cart.
   (G)   Any person who violates any provision of this subchapter shall upon
conviction be subject to a fine not less than $150, nor more than $750, and the
costs of prosecution. Also, any person who violates the provisions of this
subchapter, if he/she is a permit holder, will be subject to revocation of the
permit.
(Ord. 12-13, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance prohibiting parking
a vehicle in a designated area, or restricting the length of time a vehicle may
be there parked, may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for the
illegal parking by paying to the village $5 for each such offense. The payment
may be made at the Village Hall and a receipt shall be issued for all money so
received and the money shall be promptly turned over to the Treasurer to be
credited to the General Fund. The members of the Police Department are hereby
authorized to refrain from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense
involved for at least 48 hours.
   (B)   Provided that this section shall not apply to persons parking a
vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where Police
Department or Fire Department apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or
housed or so as to block an emergency entrance in a hospital. Nor shall this
section apply to any person charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely
obstruct traffic in any street or alley or parking in such a way as to reduce
traffic on an arterial street to one-way traffic only; nor to any person who
refuses to remove a vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of
the Police Department.
(1994 Code, § 24-6-7)
CHAPTER 72: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Abandonment
   
72.03   Possession of vehicle by other party; towing
   
72.04   Removal of vehicles; towing or hauling away
   
72.05   Police responsibilities
   
72.06   Unknown owner
   
72.07   State police information
   
72.08   Notification; new car; mail
   
72.09   Public sale; reclamation
   
72.10   Notifications "for sale"
   
72.11   Police record for disposed vehicle
   
72.12   Public sale proceeds
   
72.13   Liability of village
Cross-reference:
   Inoperable motor vehicle, see §§
93.60 through
93.65
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair, rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   COMPONENT PART. Any part of a vehicle, other than a tire, having a
manufacturer's identification number or an identification number issued by the
Secretary of State.
   DERELICT VEHICLE. Any inoperable, unregistered, discarded motor vehicle,
regardless of title, having lost its character as a substantial property and
left unattended without justification on the owner's land contrary to the
public policy expressed in this code.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley or public way within this municipality.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven days
the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power.
      (2)   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include a motor vehicle which
has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor
power in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations.
   REMOVE. To remove, deface, cover or destroy.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, whether subject to or exempt
from registration, excepting, however, bicycles, snowmobiles and devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-201) (1994 Code, § 24-7-1)
§ 72.02 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Highway. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or part
thereof on any highway in this municipality is unlawful and subject to
penalties as set forth herein.
   (B)   Private property. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicles
or any part thereof on private or public property, other than a highway, in
view of the general public anywhere in this municipality is unlawful, except on
property of the owner or bailee of the abandoned vehicle.
   (C)   Owner's property. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part,
thereof so abandoned on private property shall be authorized for removal by or
upon the order of the Police Department of the municipality after waiting a
period of seven days or more.
   (D)   Inoperable motor vehicles.
      (1)   Inoperable motor vehicles, whether on public or private property
are declared to be a nuisance and subjects the owners for fines to be levied
for a failure to obey a notice received from the village, stating that the
owner is to dispose of the inoperable motor vehicle.
      (2)   The Village Police Department is authorized to remove, after seven
days from the above referred to notice, any inoperable motor vehicle or parts
thereof.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall apply to any motor vehicle that is
kept within a building when not in use, to operate historic vehicles over 25
years of age or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business
lawfully engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-201) (1994 Code, § 24-7-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 POSSESSION OF VEHICLE BY OTHER PARTY; TOWING.
   (A)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this
municipality, not the owner of the vehicle, the person shall immediately notify
the Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the
municipality.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the notification, the Police Department or designated
representative shall authorize a towing service to remove and take possession
of the abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle.
   (C)   The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its
contents, maintain a record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the
owner or any other person legally entitled to possession thereof or until it is
disposed of as provided in this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 24-7-3)
§ 72.04 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; TOWING OR HAULING AWAY.
   (A)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a toll highway,
interstate highway or expressway for two hours or more, its removal by a towing
service may be authorized by the Police Department.
   (B)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway in an
urban district ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by the Police Department of the municipality.
   (C)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway other than
a toll highway, interstate highway or expressway outside of an urban district
for 24 hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by the
Police Department of the municipality.
   (D)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the
highway or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of traffic, its
immediate removal from the highway or private property adjacent to the highway
by a towing service may be authorized by the Police Department of the
municipality.
   (E)   When a vehicle removal from either public or private property is
authorized by the Police Department, the owner of the vehicle will be
responsible for all towing and storage costs.
(1994 Code, § 24-7-4)
§ 72.05 POLICE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away
as provided herein, the Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of
the vehicle towed, listing by color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade
name, manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle.
   (B)   The record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed
from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the officer
authorizing the tow.
(1994 Code, § 24-7-5)
§ 72.06 UNKNOWN OWNER.
   (A)   When the Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
   (B)   The Police Department authorizing the impoundment will cause the
stolen motor vehicle files of the state police to be searched by a directed
communication to the state police for stolen or wanted information of the
vehicle.
   (C)   The information determined from these record searches will be used by
the Police Department in sending notification by certified mail to the owner or
legally entitled person, advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a
disposition to be made and setting forth public sale information.
(1994 Code, § 24-7-6)
§ 72.07 STATE POLICE INFORMATION.
   (A)   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of this state or from the registration files of a foreign
state, if applicable, the Police Department shall notify the state police for
the purpose of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   The information obtained by the state police will be immediately
forwarded to the Police Department having custody of the vehicle for
notification of owner.
(1994 Code, § 24-7-7)
§ 72.08 NOTIFICATION; NEW CAR; MAIL.
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle four years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of 30
days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a
conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises where
the vehicle has been impounded.
   (C)   At least ten days prior to the sale, the Police Department shall cause
a notice of the time and place to be sent by certified mail to the registered
owner or other person known by the Police Department or towing service to be
legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The notice shall contain a
complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by
any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
   (D)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
(1994 Code, § 24-7-8)
§ 72.09 PUBLIC SALE; RECLAMATION.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided in §
72.08 above, the owner or other person legally entitled to its possession may
reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department proof of ownership,
or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle shall be
released to the owner or other person under this section until all towing and
storage charges have been paid.
(1994 Code, § 24-7-9)
§ 72.10 NOTIFICATIONS "FOR SALE". 
   (A)   New car. When the identity of the registered owner or other person
legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle
of seven years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for
in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein, or disposed of in
the manner authorized by this chapter without notice to the registered owner or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   Old car. When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of
the registered owner by the U.S. Mail, public service, or in person for a
determination of disposition; and an examination of the state police stolen
motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the
ten-day period, without the benefit of disposition information being received
from the registered owner, the Sheriff will authorize the disposal of the
vehicle as junk. An exception to the above is provided for if, in the opinion
of the police officer processing the vehicle, it has a value of $200 or more
and can be restored to safe operating condition. In this event, the agency may
authorize its purchase as salvage and the Secretary of State may issue a
salvage certificate if the vehicle is bonded in the manner as provided for
certificates of title under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-100.
   (C)   Antique vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an
antique vehicle may, however, be sold to a person desiring to restore the
vehicle.
(1994 Code, § 24-7-10)
§ 72.11 POLICE RECORD FOR DISPOSED VEHICLE.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled
person or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the
Police Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or
disposal.
(1994 Code, § 24-7-11)
§ 72.12 PUBLIC SALE PROCEEDS.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of this municipality is
authorized to be towed away by the Police Department and disposed of as set
forth in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition, after
the deduction of towing, storage and processing charges shall be deposited in
the municipal treasury.
(1994 Code, § 24-7-12)
§ 72.13 LIABILITY OF VILLAGE.
   Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or his or her legal representative, or any
other person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other
vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-3 and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 4-201 et seq.) (1994
Code, § 24-7-13)
CHAPTER 73: IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Violations authorizing impoundment
   
73.03   Seizure and notice of impoundment
   
73.04   Administrative hearing
   
73.05   Disposition of impounded motor vehicle
   
73.06   Posting of bond
   
73.07   Motor vehicle possession
   
73.08   Towing agency
   
73.09   Refund of administrative fee
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning:
   BUSINESS DAY. Any day in which the offices of Village Hall are open to the
public for a minimum of seven hours.
   LEVEL 1 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE. Shall be $500.
   LEVEL 2 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE. Shall be $250.
   LEVEL 3 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE. Shall be $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including but not
limited to automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles and motor scooters.
   OWNER OF RECORD. The record title holder(s) of the motor vehicle as
registered with the Secretary of State, State of Illinois; or if not registered
in Illinois, the particular state where the motor vehicle is registered.
(Ord. 13-10, passed 12-17-2013)
§ 73.02 VIOLATIONS AUTHORIZING IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied permission of
the owner of record, that is subsequently used in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, violations of any of the following statutes, as now or as
hereafter amended, shall be subject to seizure and impoundment by the village,
and the owner of record of said motor vehicle shall be liable to the village
for a Level 1 Administrative Fee as provided for in this chapter, in addition
to any towing and storage fees as hereinafter provided. Vehicles used in
connection with any of the following violations are deemed similarly situated,
in that they typically involve a suspect present, and or evidence, which calls
for significantly greater time by police officers and staff:
State Statute Similarly Situated Violations
State Statute       Similarly Situated Violations
625 ILCS 5/6-303    Driving while license revoked
625 ILCS 5/11-204   Fleeing or attempting to elude a peace officer
625 ILCS 5/11-501   Driving under the influence of alcohol/drugs
625 ILCS 5/11-503   Reckless driving or aggravated reckless driving
625 ILCS 5/11-504   Drag racing
625 ILCS 5/11-601.5 Speeding in excess of 40 mph Class A misdemeanor
625 ILCS 5/11-6     Indecent solicitation of a child
720 ILCS 5/12-4     Aggravated battery
720 ILCS 5/12-4.2   Aggravated battery with a firearm
720 ILCS 5/12-4.3   Aggravated battery of a child
720 ILCS 5/12-4.6   Aggravated battery of a senior citizen
720 ILCS 5/16A-3    Felony retail theft
720 ILCS 5/18-1     Robbery
720 ILCS 5/18-2     Armed robbery
720 ILCS 5/19-1     Burglary
720 ILCS 5/19-3     Residential burglary
720 ILCS 5/20-1.1   Aggravated arson
720 ILCS 5/20-2     Possession of explosives or incendiary devices
720 ILCS 5/21-1     Felony criminal damage to property
720 ILCS 5/25-1     Mob action
720 ILCS 570/401    Manufacture or delivery unauthorized
720 ILCS 570/401.1  Controlled substance tracking
720 ILCS 570/402    Unauthorized possession under the Controlled Substances Act
720 ILCS 550/4      Possession of more than ten grams of any substances
                    containing cannabis
720 ILCS 550/5      Manufacture or delivery of cannabis
720 ILCS 550/5.1    Cannabis trafficking
720 ILCS 550/5.2    Delivery of cannabis on school grounds
720 ILCS 550/8      Unauthorized production or possession of cannabis sativa
                    plant
720 ILCS 5/24-1     Felony unlawful use of weapons
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1   Felony unlawful possession of firearms and firearm
                    ammunition
720 ILCS 5/24-3.3   Unlawful sale or delivery of firearms on the premises of a
                    school
                    Any other felony charge not mentioned above under Illinois
                    state statute, as now or hereafter amended.
 
   (B)   For any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied permission
of the owner of record, that is subsequently used in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, any violations not listed in division (A) above, but in
any of the following violations, shall be subject to seizure and impoundment by
the village, and the owner of record of said motor vehicle shall be liable to
the village for a Level 2 Administrative Fee, as provided in this chapter, in
addition to any towing and storage fees as herein after provided:
      (1)   Similarly situated violations.
         (a)   Violations of Illinois statutes constituting misdemeanors or
village ordinance violations, as now or as hereafter amended;
         (b)   Traffic violations;
         (c)   Drug paraphernalia or drug equipment arrests;
         (d)   Hit and run vehicles with accompanying traffic arrests; and
         (e)   Outstanding warrants, whether for failure to appear in court or
original arrest warrants.
      (2)   Vehicles used in connection with these offenses are deemed
similarly situated, in that they typically involve a suspect present, and
little or no evidence is located and dealt with in the tow process. Such
offenses therefore require time of the officers in transporting, booking,
processing, and either releasing on bail or lodging, the arrestee.
   (C)   Any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied permission of
the owner of record, that is subsequently used in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, violations of any of the following, as now or as hereafter
amended, shall be subject to seizure and impoundment by the village, and the
owner of record of said motor vehicle shall be liable to the village, for a
Level 3 Administrative Fee, as provided for in this chapter, in addition to any
towing and storage fees as herein after provided:
      (1)   Similarly situated violations.
         (a)   Non-custodial tows;
         (b)   Parking violations; and
         (c)   Abandoned or junk vehicles.
      (2)   Vehicles used in connection with these offenses are deemed
similarly situated, in that no suspect is typically present, and typically no
evidence to be processed or handled independently of the vehicle itself.
(Ord. 13-10, passed 12-17-2013)
§ 73.03 SEIZURE AND NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer has reason to believe that a motor vehicle
is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police
officer may provide for the towing of the motor vehicle to a facility approved
by the Chief of Police. This chapter shall not apply if the motor vehicle used
in the violation was stolen at that time.
   (B)   The police officer shall notify any person identifying himself as the
owner of the motor vehicle or any person who is found to be in control of the
motor vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, if there is such a person,
of the fact of the seizure and of the motor vehicle owner’s right to request an
administrative hearing to be conducted under this section.
   (C)   At the time the vehicle is towed under this section, the municipality
shall notify or make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee, or
person identifying himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or
any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged offense, of the fact of the seizure, and of the vehicle owner’s or
lessee's right to an administrative hearing. The municipality shall also
provide notice that the motor vehicle will remain impounded pending the
completion of an administrative hearing, unless the owner or lessee of the
vehicle or a lien holder posts with the municipality a bond equal to the
administrative fee as provided by this chapter and pays for all towing and
storage charges. The registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and any lien
holder of record shall be provided with a notice of hearing. The notice shall:
      (1)   Be served upon the owner, lessee, and any lien holder of record
either by personal service or by first class mail to the interested party's
address as registered with the Secretary of State;
      (2)   Be served upon interested parties within ten days after a vehicle
is impounded by the municipality; and
      (3)   Contain the date, time, and location of the administrative hearing.
An initial hearing shall be scheduled and convened no later than 45 days after
the date of the mailing of the notice of hearing.
(Ord. 13-10, passed 12-17-2013)
§ 73.04 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   (A)   All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the hearing, and to ask reasonable questions of other witnesses, in
the discretion of the hearing officer. The formal rules of evidence shall not
apply at the hearing and hearsay evidence shall be admissible.
   (B)   If after the hearing, the hearing officer determines by a
preponderance of evidence that the motor vehicle was used in the commission of,
or in the attempt to commit, any violation of this chapter, or any violation of
any statute or ordinance referenced in this chapter, then the hearing officer
shall enter an order finding the owner of record of the motor vehicle civilly
liable to the village for the applicable administrative fee.
   (C)   If after a hearing, the hearing officer determines by a preponderance
of the evidence that the motor vehicle was not used in connection with such a
violation, the hearing officer shall enter an order finding for the owner and
for the return of the motor vehicle.
   (D)   If the owner of record requests a hearing but fails to appear at the
hearing or fails to request a hearing in a timely manner, the owner of record
shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to a hearing and hearing
officer shall enter a default order in favor of the village in the amount of
the administrative fee. However, if the owner of record pays such
administrative fee and the motor vehicle is returned to the owner, no default
order need be entered where the owner is informed of his or her right to a
hearing and signs a written waiver. An order and finding of liability to the
village for the administrative fee shall be deemed to have been made when the
village receives the signed written waiver.
   (E)   All of the following four requirements shall apply to any
administrative hearing conducted under this section:
      (1)   Administrative hearings shall be conducted by a hearing officer who
is an attorney licensed to practice law in this state for a minimum of three
years;
      (2)   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing
officer shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the
vehicle impoundment;
      (3)   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the
administrative hearing officer, any administrative fee posted to secure the
release of the vehicle shall be forfeited to the municipality; and
      (4)   All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be
subject to review under the provisions of the Illinois Administrative Review
Law, ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.
(Ord. 13-10, passed 12-17-2013)
§ 73.05 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   An administrative fee imposed pursuant to this chapter shall
constitute a debt due and owing the village. A motor vehicle impounded pursuant
to this chapter shall remain impounded until:
      (1)   The administrative fee is paid to the village and all applicable
storage and towing fees are paid to the towing agent in which case the owner of
record shall be given possession of the motor vehicle;
      (2)   A bond in an amount equal to the applicable administrative fee is
posted with the Police Department and all applicable towing fees are paid to
the towing agent, at which time the motor vehicle will be released to the owner
of record; or
      (3)   The motor vehicle is deemed abandoned, in which case the motor
vehicle shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition
of abandoned motor vehicles.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, before any
impounded motor vehicle is returned or released under this chapter, any person
seeking said return or release of the impounded motor vehicle, or the person
purporting to be the registered owner, must present proof of ownership of the
vehicle.
(Ord. 13-10, passed 12-17-2013)
§ 73.06 POSTING OF BOND.
   If a bond in the amount equal to the applicable administrative fee is posted
with the Police Department, the impounded motor vehicle shall be released to
the owner of record. The owner of the motor vehicle shall still be liable to
the towing agent for any applicable towing and storage fees.
(Ord. 13-10, passed 12-17-2013)
§ 73.07 MOTOR VEHICLE POSSESSION.
   Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed within 35 days after the
administrative hearing officer issues a written decision, or upon the
expiration of the time during which the owner of record may seek judicial
review of the village's action under this chapter, may be disposed of as an
abandoned or unclaimed motor vehicle as provided by law, provided, however,
that where proceedings have been instituted under state or federal drug asset
forfeiture laws, the subject motor vehicle may not be disposed of by the
village except as consistent with those proceedings.
(Ord. 13-10, passed 12-17-2013)
§ 73.08 TOWING AGENCY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the towing or storage company in possession of
the motor vehicle to obtain documentation confirming compliance with all the
foregoing requirements of this chapter and to retain photocopies of that
documentation in their files for a period of not less than six months following
release of the motor vehicle. The foregoing information shall be made available
to the authorities of the village for inspection and copying, upon their
request, made to the towing or storage company. The towing or storage company
is prohibited from releasing any motor vehicle they may tow within the village
until and unless they obtain the documentation as aforesaid.
   (B)   The towing or storage company shall be entitled to receive a
reasonable fee from the owner or person entitled to possession of any such
motor vehicle prior to the release of the motor vehicle. The fee shall be to
cover the cost of removing said motor vehicle, and, in addition thereto, the
cost of storage of said motor vehicle for each day or fraction thereof that
said motor vehicle shall have remained stored.
   (C)   The fees in this section shall be in addition to any administrative
fee, fine, penalty, or fee, levied or assessed against the owner or operator of
said motor vehicle by reason of violation of any ordinance or statute, and any
arrest which may have resulted from such violation.
(Ord. 13-10, passed 12-17-2013)
§ 73.09 REFUND OF ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   In the event a judgment of not guilty is entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction on all underlying charges that could have resulted in the
impoundment of a motor vehicle, then within 30 days of presentation of a
certified copy of said judgment to the Village Police Department, any
administrative fees or posted bond obtained by the village under this chapter
shall be refunded to the paying party. The administrative fee shall be waived
by the municipality upon verifiable proof that the vehicle was stolen at the
time the vehicle was impounded.
(Ord. 13-10, passed 12-17-2013)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
93.   GENERAL NUISANCES
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
96.   NOISE CONTROL
      
97.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
98.   SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Domesticated Animals
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Domesticated animals to be inoculated; name tags affixed to collars
   
90.03   Inoculation performed by licensed veterinarian; issuance of certificate
   
90.04   Duration of inoculation
   
90.05   Specifications for tag
   
90.06   Exhibition of certificate upon request
   
90.07   Restraint of domesticated animals
   
90.08   Impoundment of domesticated animals running at large or unlicensed
domesticated animals; citation
   
90.09   Notice and citation to owner or keeper of impoundment
   
90.10   Obstructing poundmaster
   
90.11   Impoundment of domesticated animals which have bitten persons
   
90.12   Impoundment
   
90.13   Village pound designated
   
90.14   Disposition of domesticated animals deemed nuisances
   
90.15   Dangerous domesticated animal; female domesticated animal at large
   
90.16   Female domesticated animal with other domesticated animals
Animals in General
   
90.30   Injury to property
   
90.31   Manner of keeping
   
90.32   Domesticated animals and cats in public places
   
90.33   Keeping barking domesticated animals and crying cats
   
90.34   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
90.35   Wild or vicious animals defined
   
90.36   Keeping wild or vicious animals
   
90.37   Animals in village
   
90.38   Total number of pets per household
   
90.39   Threshold for breeding designation
Animal Breeding; Permit Requirements; Permit Costs and Renewal
   
90.40   Eligibility and conditions for breeding permit
   
90.41   Inspection and approval
   
90.42   Authority to seize animals
   
90.43   Permit costs
Licenses and Fees
   
90.50   Domesticated animal license required
   
90.51   Fee; date
   
90.52   Kennel license
 
   
90.99   Penalty
DOMESTICATED ANIMALS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Any domesticated animal shall be deemed to be at large when it is
off the property of his or her owner and not under the control of a responsible
person.
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The Department of Agriculture of the state.
   DOMESTICATED ANIMAL. Includes a female as well as a male domesticated
animal.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection subcutaneously or otherwise as
approved by the Department of Agriculture of the state of canine anti-rabies
vaccine, approved by the Department of Agriculture.
   OWNER. A person having a right of property in a domesticated animal or who
keeps or harbors a domesticated animal, or who has a domesticated animal in his
or her care or who acts as its custodian, or who knowingly permits a
domesticated animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by him or her.
   RESTRAINT. A domesticated animal if he or she is controlled by a leash; at
“heel” beside a responsible person or obedient to that person’s commands;
within a vehicle being driven or parked on the streets, or within the property
limits of his or her owner or keeper.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 90.02 DOMESTICATED ANIMALS TO BE INOCULATED; NAME TAGS AFFIXED TO COLLARS.
   (A)   (1)   Each calendar year or at intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture, every owner or keeper of a
domesticated animal four months or more of age shall cause the domesticated
animal to be inoculated against rabies.
      (2)   The owner or keeper of the domesticated animal shall cause a
serially numbered tag evidencing the inoculation to be attached to a collar or
harness worn by the domesticated animal.
   (B)   Every owner or keeper of a domesticated animal, regardless of age,
shall cause the domesticated animal to wear a collar or harness and shall affix
thereto a metallic or other suitable tag inscribed with the name, address and
phone number, if any, of the owner or keeper of the domesticated animal.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-2) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 90.03 INOCULATION PERFORMED BY LICENSED VETERINARIAN; ISSUANCE OF
CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The inoculation of domesticated animals required by §
90.02(A) above shall be performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice
his or her profession in this state.
   (B)   Upon performing the inoculation, the veterinarian shall issue to the
owner or keeper a certificate showing that fact and shall also deliver to the
owner or keeper a metallic or other suitable tag to be attached to the collar
or harness of the domesticated animal, which tag shall also certify to the fact
of the inoculation against rabies.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-3) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 90.04 DURATION OF INOCULATION.
   The inoculation performed under the provisions of §
90.03 above shall be effective until the expiration of the calendar year in
which the vaccination was performed or the expiration of the period of time as
may be promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 90.05 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TAG.
   The tag issued under the provisions of §
90.03 above shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Department of
Agriculture.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 90.06 EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE UPON REQUEST.
   At any reasonable time upon request of any member of the Police Department
or village employee, the owner or keeper of any unmuzzled domesticated animal
shall exhibit his or her certificate issued under the provisions of §
90.03 above, showing the inoculation against rabies of any domesticated animal
owned or controlled by him or her.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-6) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 90.07 RESTRAINT OF DOMESTICATED ANIMALS.
   (A)   When a domesticated animal is on the property of its owner or keeper
and is not within a secure enclosure, it shall be under the direct control of
and obedient to the owner or keeper.
   (B)   At all other times, when a domesticated animal is on the property of
its owner or keeper, it shall be kept within a secure enclosure, including a
fenced in area or electronic fence, house or other building, of sufficient
strength and height to prevent the domesticated animal from escaping therefrom;
provided the owner or keeper may, for a period not to exceed 12 hours every 24
hours, allow the domesticated animal to be tethered or chained to a stationary
object or pole so long as the domesticated animal is inside a fenced area and
is provided with sufficient water and nourishment. A domesticated animal cannot
be tethered in an open area unless the owner or other responsible adult is
present.
   (C)   Tethers must be at least three times the domesticated animal’s length
and allow the domesticated animal to easily stand, sit, lie and turn about.
Tethers must be attached to a proper collar, halter or harness and cannot
become entangled or extend over an object that may cause the domesticated
animal to be strangled or injured.
   (D)   No domesticated animals shall be tethered in the front yard of the
owner or keeper’s property.
   (E)   All tethered domesticated animals shall be tethered in a way that
allows them to reach food, water, shelter and shade.
   (F)   All domesticated animals off of the property of the owner or keeper
shall be controlled by means of a leash and under the direct control of and
obedient of the owner or keeper’s command.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-7) (Ord. 05-19, passed 12-6-2005; Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-
2014)
§ 90.08 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOMESTICATED ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE OR UNLICENSED
DOMESTICATED ANIMALS; CITATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the employees and officers of the Police
Department as shall be designated for that purpose by the Mayor to take up and
impound in such place as may be designated and set apart for that purpose, any
domesticated animal found running at large or unlicensed in the village,
contrary to any of the provisions of this chapter or other codes of the
village.
   (B)   When domesticated animals are found running at large or unlicensed and
their ownership is known to the designated employee(s), the domesticated
animals may be impounded at the discretion of the employee(s), but the employee
(s) may cite the owner of the domesticated animal to answer charges of
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Any domesticated animal permitted to run at large within the village
is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (D)   A person who knowingly obstructs the performance of any authorized act
within the official capacity of one known to the person to be an Animal Control
Officer commits an ordinance violation.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-8) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 90.09 NOTICE AND CITATION TO OWNER OR KEEPER OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   In case of impounding and where the owner or keeper of the domesticated
animal is disclosed by any tax or license tag worn by it, or is otherwise known
to the officers impounding the same, the designated official shall make
reasonable attempts to contact the owner, informing him or her of the
impounding of his or her domesticated animal, and shall cite the owner or
keeper of the domesticated animal to answer charges of violation of this
chapter.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-9) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 90.10 OBSTRUCTING POUNDMASTER.
   It is a violation of the ordinances of the village for any individual other
than a police officer or the Animal Control Officer to release or transport
animals apprehended, trapped, captured or caged by or at the direction of the
Animal Control Officer.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-10) (Ord. 07-11, passed 9-4-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOMESTICATED ANIMALS WHICH HAVE BITTEN PERSONS.
   (A)   Any domesticated animal, which shall have bitten or otherwise injured
any person so as to cause an abrasion of the skin, shall be immediately taken,
impounded and kept separated from other domesticated animals for 14 days. If,
during that period, the domesticated animal develops symptoms of illness, a
veterinarian shall be called to diagnose its condition. If the symptoms
disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of rabies, the domesticated
animal shall be destroyed in such a manner, however, as to preserve intact the
head, which shall thereupon be detached and immediately sent to the diagnostic
laboratory of the Department of Agriculture. In case the domesticated animal
cannot be safely taken up and impounded, it may be shot, care being taken to
preserve the head intact, which shall thereupon be immediately detached and be
delivered to the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture.
   (B)   If, at the expiration of the 14 days, no symptoms of rabies have
developed in the domesticated animal so impounded, the same may be redeemed by
the owner upon payment of the redemption fees and charges specified by this
chapter; provided, however, that in case any domesticated animal so impounded
for biting a person shall have previously bitten any person, the domesticated
animal shall be humanely destroyed by the poundkeeper. After having been
notified that his or her domesticated animal has bitten or otherwise injured
any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall not, under any circumstances,
permit the animal to be at large unless securely muzzled.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-11) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 90.12 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Those persons charged with the duty of enforcing this chapter may
employ any method found practical and humane in capturing and impounding any
domesticated animal found running at large.
   (B)   The pound fee shall be $15 per day per animal.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-12) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 90.13 VILLAGE POUND DESIGNATED.
   The County Animal Control Center is hereby designated as the village pound.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-13)
§ 90.14 DISPOSITION OF DOMESTICATED ANIMALS DEEMED NUISANCES.
   Any domesticated animal which may, in any manner, continually disturb the
quiet of any person or neighborhood or shall destroy or in any manner injure
any animal, plant, shrub or other property not on the premises of its owner or
keeper is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and the domesticated animal shall
be taken up and impounded and may be redeemed or disposed of in the manner
provided for under this code.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-14) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 90.15 DANGEROUS DOMESTICATED ANIMAL; FEMALE DOMESTICATED ANIMAL AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any fierce or dangerous
domesticated animal or of any female domesticated animal, while in heat, to run
at large within the limits of this village.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-15) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 FEMALE DOMESTICATED ANIMAL WITH OTHER DOMESTICATED ANIMALS.
   No person in control or possession of a female domesticated animal or
permitting the same to remain upon his or her premises, shall permit any such
female domesticated animal, while in heat, to consort with any other
domesticated animal or animals in an indecent manner in any place of public
view, whether upon his or her own or any other premises.
(1994 Code, § 3-1-16) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
ANIMALS IN GENERAL
§ 90.30 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing a
domesticated animal or cat to permit the domesticated animal or cat to go upon
any sidewalk, parkway or private lands or premises without the permission of
the owner of the premises and break, bruise, tear up, crush or injure any lawn,
flower bed, plant, shrub, tree or garden in any manner whatsoever, or to
defecate thereon; or to injure or harm any household pet or domestic animal on
the property.
   (B)   Waste products accumulations. It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause or permit a domesticated animal or cat to be on property, public or
private, not owned or possessed by the person unless the person has in his or
her immediate possession an appropriate device for scooping excrement and an
appropriate depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle
located upon property owned or possessed by the person. This section shall not
apply to a person who is visually or physically disabled.
(1994 Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 11-02, passed 1-4-2011; Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31 MANNER OF KEEPING.
   (A)   Pens, yards or runs. All pens, yards or runs or other structures
wherein any animal is kept shall be of a construction so as to be easily
cleaned and kept in good repair.
   (B)   Fences. Fences which are intended as enclosures for any animal shall
be securely constructed, shall be adequate for the purpose, kept in good repair
and shall not be allowed to become unsightly.
(1994 Code, § 3-2-2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 DOMESTICATED ANIMALS AND CATS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No domesticated animal or cat shall be permitted in any cemetery. No
domesticated animal or cat shall be allowed in any parks, beaches or any
swimming areas open to the public in the village.
(1994 Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 KEEPING BARKING DOMESTICATED ANIMALS AND CRYING CATS.
   (A)   Harboring. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly keep or
harbor any domesticated animal which habitually barks, howls or yelps, or any
cat which habitually cries or howls to the great discomfort of the peace and
quiet of the neighborhood, or in such manner as to materially disturb or annoy
persons in the neighborhood who are of ordinary sensibilities. The domesticated
animals and cats are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Petitions complaining of vicious or barking domesticated animals or
crying cats. Whenever any person shall complain to the Police Department that a
domesticated animal which habitually barks, howls or yelps or a cat which
habitually cries or howls is being kept by any person in the village, the
Police Department shall notify the owner of the domesticated animal or cat that
a complaint has been received and that the person should take whatever steps
are necessary to alleviate the howling, yelping or crying.
(1994 Code, § 3-2-4) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.34 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously
inflict unnecessary or needless cruelty, torture, abuse or cruelly beat, strike
or abuse any animal, or by an act, omission or neglect cause or inflict any
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, injury or death to any animal
whether the animal belongs to that person or to another, except that reasonable
force may be employed to drive away vicious or trespassing animals.
      (2)   Any unwanted animals should be delivered to the County Animal
Control Facility for proper disposal.
   (B)   Food and shelter. It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any
animal to fail, refuse or neglect to provide the animal with food, potable
water, shade or shelter, or to cruelly or unnecessarily expose any such animal
in hot, stormy, cold or inclement weather, or to carry any animal in or upon
any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SHADE. Protection from the direct rays of the sun during the months of
June through September.
      SHELTER. As it applies to domesticated animals, a moisture-proof
structure of suitable size to accommodate the domesticated animal and allow
retention of body heat, made of durable material with a solid floor raised at
least two inches from the ground and with the entrance covered by a flexible,
wind-proof material. The structure shall be provided with a sufficient quantity
of suitable bedding to provide insulation and protection against cold and
dampness.
(1994 Code, § 3-2-5) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.35 WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has previously attacked or bitten any
person or which has behaved in such a manner that the person who harbors the
animal knows or should reasonably know that the animal is possessed of
tendencies to attack or bite persons.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live monkey or ape, raccoon, skunk, fox, snake or other
reptile, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other animal or any bird of
prey which can normally be found in the wild state.
(1994 Code, § 3-2-6)
§ 90.36 KEEPING WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept on
his or her premises any wild or vicious animal for display or for exhibition
purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee. This section shall not be
construed to apply to zoological parks, performing animal exhibitions or
circuses.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any
wild animal as a pet, unless a permit is granted by the Department of Natural
Resources of the state.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious animal
within the village. Any animal which is found off the premises of its owner may
be seized by any police officer or humane officer and upon establishment to the
satisfaction of any court of competent jurisdiction of the vicious character of
the animal, it may be killed by a police officer or humane officer; provided,
however, that this section shall not apply to animals under the control of a
law enforcement or military agency nor to animals which are kept for the
protection of property, provided that the animals are restrained by a leash or
chain, cage, fence or other adequate means from contact with the general public
or with persons who enter the premises with the actual or implied permission of
the owner or occupant.
   (D)   The licensing authority may issue a temporary permit for the keeping,
care and protection of any infant animal native to this area which has been
deemed to be homeless.
(1994 Code, § 3-2-7) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 ANIMALS IN VILLAGE.
   (A)   Certain prohibitions. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
person shall keep within the village, any cattle, cows, horses, sheep, swine,
goats, chickens, ducks, turkeys, geese or other livestock.
   (B)   Exceptions.   This chapter shall not apply to areas of the village
that are agricultural in nature, nor shall this chapter apply to livestock
brought into the village for the purpose of being shipped out of the village.
   (C)   Powers of Health Commissioner. The Mayor shall have the power to issue
an order prohibiting the keeping of any animal, fowl or bird which is deemed to
pose a health hazard to the general public.
(1994 Code, § 3-2-8)
§ 90.38 TOTAL NUMBER OF PETS PER HOUSEHOLD.
   (A)   Pet limit. Households in the Village of South Roxana may own up to six
adult domesticated pets, defined as dogs, cats, or other commonly kept
household animals as long as the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The conditions of the property remain sanitary and do not
compromise the health and safety of the animals, property owners, or residents.
      (2)   The animals are kept in such a manner that they do not disturb the
peace or safety of the community, including but not limited to preventing
animals from running at large.
   (B)   Vaccination and health requirements. Upon request by a village
official, pet owners must provide proof of current vaccinations for all pets to
ensure public health and safety.
   (C)   Temporary allowance for litters. Puppies or kittens resulting from a
household pet will not count toward the total pet limit for a period of up to
16 weeks from birth to allow for weaning and rehoming.
   (D)   Post-litter adjustment. After the 16-week period, any puppies or
kittens remaining in the household will be counted toward the six-pet limit.
Households must reduce their pet count accordingly to comply with this section.
(1994 Code, § 3-2-9) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014; Ord. 25-04, passed 2-4-2025)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.39 THRESHOLD FOR BREEDING DESIGNATION.
   Breeding activity defined: Households that own more than six adult pets or
produce more than one litter per year will be considered to engage in breeding
activity and will be required to obtain a breeding permit.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 2-4-2025)
ANIMAL BREEDING; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; PERMIT COSTS AND RENEWAL
§ 90.40 ELIGIBILITY AND CONDITIONS FOR BREEDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any resident wishing to breed dogs for sale or distribution must apply
for a breeding permit through the Village Clerk's office.
   (B)   Applicants must demonstrate that their breeding facilities comply with
the following conditions:
      (1)   Adequate shelter and living space for each animal.
      (2)   Regular veterinary care, including vaccinations and health
screenings.
      (3)   Proper nutrition and water for all animals.
      (4)   Sanitary and safe living conditions to prevent disease and injury.
      (5)   Ensuring that the animals do not create a nuisance in the
community, such as excessive noise, odors, or unsanitary conditions that could
affect the animals, homeowners, or neighbors.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 90.41 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   A village employee or designated official will inspect the breeding
facility to ensure compliance with the above standards before issuing a permit.
   (B)   Breeding facilities will be subject to periodic inspections to
maintain permit eligibility.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 90.42 AUTHORITY TO SEIZE ANIMALS.
   (A)   In cases where animals are found in unsanitary or unsafe conditions,
or if conditions pose a danger to animal health and safety, the village's
police or designated officials are authorized to seize the animals.
   (B)   Seized animals will be cared for in a designated facility until the
issue is resolved.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 90.43 PERMIT COSTS.
   (A)   Initial application fee. The initial application fee for a breeding
permit is $250.
   (B)   Annual renewal fee. An annual renewal fee of $150 is required, along
with proof of continued compliance.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 2-4-2025)
LICENSES AND FEES
§ 90.50 DOMESTICATED ANIMAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor within the village, any domesticated
animal over the age of five months unless the domesticated animal is registered
with the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk shall keep a record of all licenses
issued and shall file the report with the Chief of Police and Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.51 FEE; DATE.
   (A)   Every person owning, keeping or harboring any domesticated animal over
the age of five months shall pay to the Village Clerk an annual license fee of
$6 per domesticated animal.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall record the name of the person and shall
furnish to the applicant a metal tag, upon which will be stamped the words,
“South Roxana Domesticated Animal Tax,” together with whatever information the
Village Board requires.
   (C)   Provided, however, if a person purchases the domesticated animal tag
on or before May 1 of each year, he or she shall receive a 50% discount in the
license fee.
(1994 Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 90.52 KENNEL LICENSE.
   Any person keeping or harboring more than three domesticated animals and/or
cats on any premises within the village shall be deemed to be operating a
kennel, and they shall be located in commercial districts only.
   (A)   Every person operating a kennel as aforesaid shall clean same daily
and use a standard qualified disinfectant daily and shall maintain the kennel
in a sanitary condition at all times. The person shall further see that the
domesticated animals and/or cats harbored therein are kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (B)   Upon complaint to the Police Department, they shall immediately make
an inspection of any kennel or pen and report their findings thereof to the
Village Board.
   (C)   Every person keeping, harboring or maintaining more than three
domesticated animals and/or cats as aforesaid shall pay an annual license fee
of $20, but will not be liable for any domesticated animal license fee.
(1994 Code, § 3-3-3) (Ord. 14-09, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violators of §
90.10 shall be subject to a fine of no less than $150 and no more than $500.
   (C)   (1)   Violations of §§
90.38 through
90.43 incur fines ranging from $250 to $1,000, depending on the severity and
nature of the non-compliance.
      (2)   Repeated violations or severe non-compliance may lead to revocation
of permits and additional legal actions.
(Ord. 07-11, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 25-04, passed 2-4-2025)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Declaration of policy
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Unlawful practices
   
91.04   Exemptions
   
91.05   Procedure
   
91.06   Other remedies
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the Village Board in the exercise
of its police power for the public safety, public health and general welfare to
assure equal opportunity to all persons to live in decent housing facilities
regardless of race, color, religion, sex, HIV positive status or national
origin and, to that end, prohibit discrimination in housing by any persons.
(1994 Code, § 11-1-1)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATION or DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. Any difference in
treatment based upon race, color, religion, sex, HIV positive status or
national origin; or any act that is unlawful under this code.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Includes any person, as defined herein, engaged in
the business of lending money or guaranteeing losses.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION or DWELLING. Any building, mobile home or trailer,
structure or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed, or intended for
occupancy, as, a residence by one or more families, and any vacant land which
is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any
such building, mobile home or trailer, structure or portion thereof or any real
property, as defined herein, used or intended to be used for any of the
purposes set forth in this definition.
   MORTGAGE BROKER. An individual who is engaged in or who performs the
business or services of a mortgage broker as the same are defined by the
Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   OPEN MARKET. The market which is informed of the availability for sale,
purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation whether informed through
a real estate broker or advertising by publication, signs or by any other
advertising methods directed to the public or any portion thereof, indicating
that the property is available for sale, purchase, rental or lease.
   OWNER. Includes a lessee, sublessee, co-tenant, assignee, managing agent or
other person having the right of ownership or possession, or the right to sell,
rent or lease any housing accommodation.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, children, firms, associations, joint
adventures, partnerships, estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates,
fiduciaries, corporations and all other groups or combinations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER or REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON. Includes any individual,
qualified by law, who, for a fee, commission, salary or for other valuable
consideration, or who with the intention or expectation of receiving or
collecting the same, lists, sells, purchases, rents or leases any housing
accommodations, including options thereupon, or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate the activities; or who advertises or holds himself or herself out as
engaged in such activities; or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate a loan,
secured by a mortgage or other encumbrance, upon transfer of any housing
accommodation; or who is engaged in the business of charging an advance fee or
contracting for collection of a fee in connection with a contract whereby he or
she undertakes to promote the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing
accommodation through its listing in a publication issued primarily for that
purpose; or an individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes buildings, structures, lands, tenements, leaseholds,
cooperatives and condominiums.
(1994 Code, § 11-1-2)
§ 91.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   In connection with any of the transactions set forth in this section which
affect any housing accommodation on the open market, or in connection with any
public sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, it shall
be unlawful with the village for a person, owner, financial institution, real
estate broker or real estate salesperson, or any representative of the above,
to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell, purchase, rent or lease, or deny to or withhold any
housing accommodation from a person because of his or her race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, HIV positive status or place of
birth;
   (B)   To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation,
or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith;
   (C)   To refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to sell, purchase,
rent or lease any housing accommodation from or to a person because of his or
her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, HIV positive status
or place of birth;
   (D)   To refuse to negotiate for the sale, purchase, rental or is of any
housing accommodation to a person because of his or her race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex, HIV positive status or place of birth;
   (E)   To represent to a person that any housing accommodation is not
available for inspection, sale, purchase, rental or lease when in fact it is so
available, or to refuse to permit a person to inspect any housing
accommodation, because of his race, color, religion or national origin, sex,
HIV positive status or place of birth;
   (F)   To make, publish, print, circulate, post or mail, or cause to be made,
published, printed, circulated, posted or mailed, any notice, statement or
advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to sign or to use a form of
application for the sale, purchase, rental lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, or to make a record or inquiry in connection with the
prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, which indicates any discrimination or any intent to make a
discrimination;
   (G)   To offer, solicit, accept or use a listing of any housing
accommodation for sale, purchase, rental or lease with the understanding that a
person may be subjected to discrimination in connection with the sale,
purchase, rental or lease or in the furnishing of facilities or services in
connection therewith;
   (H)   To induce directly or indirectly, or attempt to induce directly or
indirectly, the sale, purchase, rental or lease, or the listing for any of the
above, of any housing accommodation by representing that the presence or
anticipated presence of persons of any particular race, color, religion, sex,
HIV positive status or national origin or place of birth in the area to be
affected by the sale, purchase, rental or lease will or may result in either:
      (1)   The lowering of property values in the area;
      (2)   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; or
      (3)   A decline in the quality of schools serving the area.
   (I)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale,
purchase, rental or lease, or the anticipated listing for any of the above, or
the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation in the area in
the village for the purpose of including or attempting to induce any such
listing or any of the above transactions;
   (J)   To engage in, or hire to be done, or to conspire with others to commit
acts or activities of any nature, the purpose of which is to coerce, cause
panic, incite unrest or create or play upon fear, with the purpose of either
discouraging or inducing, or attempting to induce, the sale, purchase, rental
or lease, or the listing for any of the above, of any housing accommodation;
   (K)   To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because he
or she has opposed a practice declared unlawful by this chapter, or because he
or she has filed a complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any manner
in any investigation, proceeding, hearing or conference under this chapter;
   (L)   To aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce any person to engage in any of
the practices prohibited by this chapter; or to obstruct or prevent any person
from complying with the provisions of this chapter; or any order issued
thereunder;
   (M)   By canvassing, to commit any unlawful practices prohibited by this
chapter;
   (N)   Otherwise to deny to, or withhold any housing accommodation from a
person because of his or her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin,
sex, HIV positive status or place of birth;
   (O)   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or
other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in
whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan
or other financial assistance to a person applying therefore for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to
discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount, interest rate,
duration or other terms or conditions of the loans or other financial
assistance, because of the race, color, religion, sex, HIV positive status or
national origin of the person or of any person associated within him or her in
connection with the loan or other financial assistance or of the present or
prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings
in relation to which the loan or other financial assistance is to be made or
given; or
   (P)   To deny any qualified person access to or membership or participation
in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers' organization or other
service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in other terms or
conditions of the access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, sex, HIV positive status or national origin.
(1994 Code, § 11-1-3)
§ 91.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A religious organization, association or society or any non-profit
institution or organization operating, supervised or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association or society, which limits
the sale, rental or occupancy, of dwellings which it owns or operates for other
than commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or which gives
preference to those persons, unless membership in such a religion is restricted
on account of race, color, sex, HIV positive status or national origin;
   (B)   A private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to
its primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose, and which limits the rental or occupancy
of the lodgings to its members or gives preference to its members;
   (C)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that the
private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses at
any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale of any single-
family house by a private individual owner not residing in the house at the
time of the sale or who was not the most recent resident of the house prior to
the sale, the exemption granted by this division (C) shall apply only with
respect to one such sale within any 24-month period. Provided further, that the
bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest in, nor is there
owned or served on his or her behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement,
title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or
rental of, more than three single-family houses at any one time: Provided
further, the sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted
from the application of this code only if the house is sold or rented:
      (1)   Without the use in any manner of the sale or rental facilities or
the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson,
or of the facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any broker, agent,
salesperson or person; and
      (2)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of the provisions of 42 U.S.C. §
3604(C) or of §
91.03 above; but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
   (D)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his or her residence.
(1994 Code, § 11-1-4)
§ 91.05 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an unlawful practice prohibited by this
chapter may file a complaint with the Village Attorney within 30 days after the
aggrieved person becomes aware of the alleged unlawful practice, and in no
event more than 60 days after the alleged unlawful practice occurred.
   (B)   The Village Attorney or his or her duly authorized representative
shall investigate each complaint and attempt to resolve each complaint.
   (C)   Failure to achieve a resolution acceptable to both parties and
compliance with this chapter shall cause the Village Attorney to forward the
complaint and his or her findings to appropriate state and federal officials.
(1994 Code, § 11-1-5)
§ 91.06 OTHER REMEDIES.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent any person from exercising any right
or seeking any remedy to which he or she might otherwise be entitled or from
filing his or her complaint with any appropriate governmental agency.
(1994 Code, § 11-1-6)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as provided by §
10.99.
(1994 Code, § 11-1-7) (Ord. 91-03, passed 3-4-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-1 through 11-1-1
CHAPTER 92: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Removal
   
92.03   Container specifications
   
92.04   Container location
   
92.05   Loose garbage or rubbish
   
92.06   Container enclosures
   
92.07   Interference with containers
   
92.08   Nuisance abatement notice
   
92.09   Fees
   
92.10   Scavengers
   
92.11   Accumulation of garbage and rubbish
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL GARBAGE. The discarded or spoiled foodstuffs produced for human
consumption that comes from hotels, motels, trailer parks, restaurants and
other places which sell and dispense foodstuffs.
   COMMERCIAL RUBBISH. Miscellaneous waste and materials resulting from the
operation of mercantile enterprises and includes boxes, cartons, packing
material, paper and rubbish from offices and stores, but does not include
building materials, dirt, tree stumps, tree trunks or discarded furniture.
   REFUSE. All garbage and refuse generated within the village, and shall be
divided into the following classes:
      (1)   Residential garbage;
      (2)   Residential rubbish;
      (3)   Commercial garbage; and
      (4)   Commercial rubbish.
   RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE. Discarded or spoiled food stuffs, kitchen and table
refuse, all of which was intended for human consumption. It does not include
dead animals and offal.
   RESIDENTIAL RUBBISH. Miscellaneous waste materials such as cans, bottles,
glassware, crotchety, bones, rags, paper, ashes and the like. Until such time
as state law prohibits it, lawn wastes will be picked up, along with tree
branches up to four inches in diameter and four feet or less in length, tied in
bundles not to exceed 50 pounds in weight. RESIDENTIAL RUBBISH does not include
building material, dirt, tree stumps or trunks.
(1994 Code, § 15-1-1)
§ 92.02 REMOVAL.
   (A)   All garbage and rubbish, whether residential or commercial, shall be
removed and hauled away from the premises of the household, occupant and/or
property owner, as the case may be, by a person, entity or garbage collector in
the business of receiving, hauling, transporting and properly disposing of
garbage, rubbish and refuse. The removal of the garbage and refuse shall take
place with a frequency of no less than three times each calendar month. The
occupant or property owner shall have the right to contract with any person,
entity or garbage collector in the business of receiving, hauling, transporting
and properly disposing of garbage and refuse to comply with the requirements
herein.
   (B)   From time to time, the village may enter into an agreement or
agreements with independent contractors, collectors, to gather garbage and
refuse at maximum rates from owners or occupants who desire the services of the
collectors. Those agreement(s) between the village and collectors may grant the
village the right to bill those customers of the collectors who desire to pay
through the Village Water Department rather than to the collectors. The Water
Department Clerk shall require any person desiring to pay through the Village
Water Department rather than to the collectors to sign security agreement form
authorizing the deposit referred to in §
50.20 to cover refuse and garbage as well as water and sewer service.
(1994 Code, § 15-1-2) (Ord. 94-01, passed 3-24-1994)
§ 92.03 CONTAINER SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Garbage shall be wrapped and placed in containers of not more than 30-
gallon capacity, except as otherwise provided. The combined weight of the
container and contents shall not exceed 50 pounds. The container shall be a
watertight receptacle of a solid and durable grade of metal or plastic and
shall be provided with a suitable handle or handles and with a tightly fitting
metal or plastic cover equipped with a handle. The container must not have any
inside bands and reinforcing angles, or anything to prevent the free discharge
of the contents. Open-end barrels are not approved containers, and will not be
emptied by the collector.
   (B)   Business establishments which have garbage and/or rubbish sufficient
to make impractical its storage in 30-gallon containers shall provide other
suitable means of containing this garbage and rubbish. No garbage shall be
placed in any container unless it is of fly-tight construction. Containers
shall be situated in such a manner as to be readily accessible to the
collection crews. All containers that have deteriorated to the extent of having
jagged or sharp edges capable of causing injury to the collectors, or to the
extent that the lids will not fit tightly, or which do not fit the general
specifications of this section will be condemned. Submerged or underground
containers shall not be used.
(1994 Code, § 15-1-3)
§ 92.04 CONTAINER LOCATION.
   If the residence is located on a street where there is no alley way
accessible, or if the alley way is closed or inaccessible, the person shall
place the garbage or rubbish container at, but not on the street in front of
his or her residence. Containers shall not be placed at the pick up point
earlier than 6:00 p.m. on the day preceding trash pick up day nor shall they
remain at the pick up point later than 12:00 midnight of the day of pick up.
Containers are to be kept in an inconspicuous location on the property when not
at the pick up point for servicing.
(1994 Code, § 15-1-4)
§ 92.05 LOOSE GARBAGE OR RUBBISH.
   No loose garbage or rubbish or debris of any kind will be at the pick up
point at any time.
(1994 Code, § 15-1-5) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 CONTAINER ENCLOSURES.
   No container enclosures shall be allowed on the street side of the property.
(1994 Code, § 15-1-6) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 INTERFERENCE WITH CONTAINERS.
   (A)   No person shall molest, remove, handle or otherwise disturb the
containers or contents thereof which have been placed for servicing by the
collectors, except when necessary when the occupant or property owner does so
for the purpose of facilitating service by the collectors.
   (B)   No person shall cause or permit any garbage or rubbish in his or her
possession or control to be placed in a container or other garbage or refuse
receptacle, or upon property owned or utilized by any other person, occupant or
property owner without the written permission of both the authorized collector
and such other occupant or property owner.
(1994 Code, § 15-1-7) (Ord. 94-01, passed 3-24-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 NUISANCE ABATEMENT NOTICE.
   Any person or occupant found in violation of any section of this chapter
shall be served with a nuisance abatement notice.
(1994 Code, § 15-1-8) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 FEES.
   The monthly fee, issued to the owner(s) or possessor(s) of any residence or
other property who receive(s) service through the village, for collection of
garbage and recycling shall be $19.76 per month. The monthly fee for the owner
(s) or possessor(s) of the age of 65 years or older shall be $17.29 for the
service. The late penalty charge for any late trash payment under this section
shall be the same penalty now in effect for late payment of water and sewer
bills, or as it may be amended from time to time.
(1994 Code, § 15-1-9) (Ord. 91-01, passed 2-14-1991; Ord. 91-02, passed 2-14-
1991; Ord. 91-03, passed 3-14-1991; Ord. 07-02, passed 4-18-2007; Ord. 10-01,
passed 1-5-2010; Ord. 17-05, passed 6-6-2017; Ord. 20-08, passed 2-4-2020)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 SCAVENGERS.
   (A)   No person(s) shall scavenge from, molest, remove, handle or otherwise
disturb the containers or contents which have been placed for trash and/or
recycling pick-up nor shall any person(s) disturb, scavenge from, molest,
handle or remove any trash that is placed for pick-up.
   (B)   This does not apply to the person or family placing the items for
pick-up nor does it apply to the authorized trash and recycling removers and
haulers.
(1994 Code, § 15-1-10) (Ord. 90-10, passed 5-24-1990) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause garbage or rubbish to
accumulate or remain on any property occupied or owned by that person or upon
any adjoining street, alley, sidewalk or right-of-way.
   (B)   In the event that any such person shall be in violation of this
section, and shall thereafter fail or refuse to properly remove and dispose of
the garbage or rubbish within five days of having been given notice by
certified mail, the village may cause the garbage or rubbish to be removed and
the person so in violation shall be responsible for any and all charges and
expenses associated with the removal and disposal of the garbage or rubbish.
(1994 Code, § 15-1-12) (Ord. 94-01, passed 3-24-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, entity, occupant or property owner who is found to be in
violation of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided for, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor
more than $500. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1994 Code, § 15-1-11)
   (B)   Use of the dumpster without payment of the applicable fees,
verification of residency or use other than authorized in § 92.12 shall subject
the user to a citation and fine of up to $500.
(Ord. 94-01, passed 3-24-1994; Ord. 07-03, passed 4-18-2007)
CHAPTER 93: GENERAL NUISANCES
Section
Generally
   
93.01   Specific nuisances enumerated
   
93.02   Abatement of nuisance
   
93.03   Notice to abate
   
93.04   Abatement of nuisance by village; unknown owner
   
93.05   Failure to comply with notice
   
93.06   Leaf burning; bonfires
Weeds
   
93.20   Definition
   
93.21   Height
   
93.22   Notice
   
93.23   Service of notice
   
93.24   Abatement
   
93.25   Lien
   
93.26   Payment
   
93.27   Foreclosure of lien
Garbage and Debris
   
93.40   Accumulation prohibited
   
93.41   Notice to person
   
93.42   Service of notice
   
93.43   Abatement
   
93.44   Lien
   
93.45   Payment
   
93.46   Foreclosure of lien
Inoperable Motor Vehicle
   
93.60   Definition
   
93.61   Storage and removal of motor vehicles
   
93.62   Abatement of nuisance
   
93.63   Service of notice
   
93.64   Failure to abate nuisance
   
93.65   Exceptions
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 93.01 SPECIFIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be against the health,
peace and comfort of the village for any person within the limits of the
village to permit the following; but the enumeration of the following nuisances
shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Accumulation of junk, trash, or debris.
      (2)   Overgrown vegetation, including trees and shrubbery, that is
unsightly, that may harbor or attract vermin, or that creates an emergency
safety hazard.
      (3)   Unkempt yards containing junk, overgrown vegetation, or other
materials that could present a fire hazard, impede emergency services, or
otherwise endanger public safety.
      (4)   Standing or stagnant water that may become a breeding ground for
insects.
      (5)   Excessive noise that disturbs the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood.
      (6)   Illicit dumping of any material on public or private property.
      (7)   Any building, structure, or physical condition on the property that
is unsafe, structurally unsound, or entices children to trespass and is a
danger to human life.
      (8)   Abandoned, unsecured, or dilapidated properties.
      (9)   Any other activity or condition that poses a risk to public health
or safety.
   (B)   The legal owner of the property, the occupant of the property, and any
other individual responsible for maintaining the property may each be held
liable for violations of this chapter. This liability applies to any nuisance
created by the property or the condition thereof. Both the landlord and the
tenant may be held responsible for ensuring compliance with village
regulations.
(1994 Code, § 25-1-1) (Ord. 24-10, passed 9-3-2024) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 NUISANCES DETRIMENTAL TO HEALTH.
   (A)   A written notice of violation shall be issued to the property owner or
occupant, specifying the nature of the violation, the corrective action
required, and the deadline for compliance.
   (B)   If no one is available to receive the notice, it may be posted in a
conspicuous place on the property.
   (C)   The property owner or occupant shall have seven days from the date of
the notice to correct the violation.
   (D)   If the violation is not corrected within the specified timeframe, the
village may impose fines, initiate abatement procedures, or take legal action
as necessary.
(1994 Code, § 25-1-2) (Ord. 24-10, passed 9-3-2024) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or any person designated by the
Mayor, to serve notice in writing upon the owner, occupant, agent or person in
possession or control of any lot, building or premise in or upon which any
nuisance may be found, or who may be the owner or the cause of any such
nuisance, requiring him or her to abate the same within five days in such a
manner as the Chief of Police shall prescribe. It shall not be necessary in any
case for the Chief of Police to specify in the notice the manner in which any
nuisance shall be abated, unless he or she shall deem it advisable to do so.
(1994 Code, § 25-1-3)
§ 93.04 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY VILLAGE; UNKNOWN OWNER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or the designated
representative, to proceed at once upon the expiration of the time specified in
the notice to cause the nuisance to be abated, provided, however, that whenever
the owner, occupant, agent or person in possession or control of any premises
in or upon which any nuisance may be found is unknown or cannot be found, the
Chief of Police shall proceed to abate the nuisance without notice.
   (B)   In either case, the expense of the abatement shall be paid by the
person who may have created or suffered the nuisance to exist, in addition to
any penalty or fine.
(1994 Code, § 25-1-4)
§ 93.05 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   If the person notified to abate a nuisance shall neglect or refuse to comply
with the requirements of the notice by abating the nuisance within the time
specified, that person shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter. The
corporate authorities shall not be required to issue another notice where the
condition or violation is at first abated, but later resumed and/or repeated.
(1994 Code, § 25-1-5)
§ 93.06 LEAF BURNING; BONFIRES.
   (A)   Leaf burning shall be allowed within the corporate limits of the
village only during the months of September through April, during the hours
between 8:00 a.m. and dark.
   (B)   Bonfires shall be prohibited within the corporate limits of the
village, except on Fridays, Saturdays and holidays, during the hours between 6:
00 p.m. and 1:00 a.m.
   (C)   No leaf burning fire or bonfire shall be left unattended and must be
extinguished when left unattended.
   (D)   No burning shall be maintained on or in any street, alley, road,
public land or grounds, and on private lots only as provided in divisions (A)
through (C) above. This section shall not apply to the use of fire for
preparing food on a barbecue grill or the use of an open fire on private
property or other locations approved by the village for cooking fires, provided
the fire may only utilize wood or charcoal, and be of a size so as not to
endanger property or create smoke, noxious fumes or gases annoying others in
the immediate area.
   (E)   Leaf burning and bonfires during winds in excess of eight miles per
hour, or during other times of high fire danger, shall not be permitted.
   (F)   No burning of trash or brush or anything other than leaves, or
bonfires or cooking fires, as stated above, shall be permitted.
   (G)   This section shall take effect immediately upon passage.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 7-5-2005; Ord. 15-5, passed 4-21-2015) Penalty, see §
93.99
WEEDS
§ 93.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. Includes, but is not to be limited to the following: Burdock, Ragweed
(giant), Thistle, Ragweed (common), Cocklebur, Jimson, Blue Vervain, Common
Milk Weed, Wild Carrot, Poison Ivy, Wild Mustard, Rough Pigweed, Lambsquarter,
Wild Lettuce, Curled Dock, Smartweeds (all varieties), Poison Hemlock, Wild
Hemp and Johnson Grass and all other noxious weeds as defined by the statutes
of the state.
(1994 Code, § 25-2-1)
§ 93.21 HEIGHT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants,
other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to a
height exceeding eight inches anywhere in the village.
   (B)   Any plants or weeds exceeding that height are hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(1994 Code, § 25-2-2) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 NOTICE.
   (A)   The Police Department or any other person so designated by the Mayor
or Village Board may issue a written notice for removal of weeds or grass from
any location within the village.
   (B)   The notice shall direct that the weeds and/or grass shall be cut by
the owner or occupant within ten days after the notice has been duly served.
(1994 Code, § 25-2-3) (Ord. 17-12, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 93.23 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of the notice provided for herein may be effected by handing the
same to the owner, occupant or lessee of the premises, or to any member of his
or her household of the age of 15 years or older found on the premises or by
mailing the notice to the last known residence address of the owner; provided
that if the premises are unoccupied and the owner's address cannot be obtained,
then the notice may be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(1994 Code, § 25-2-4)
§ 93.24 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   If the person so served with the notice provided for in §
93.22 does not abate the nuisance by cutting the weeds or grass as directed in
the notice within ten days, the village may proceed to abate the nuisance,
keeping an account of the expense of the abatement and the expense shall be
charged to and paid by the owner or occupant.
   (B)   The village may hire or authorize a third party, in writing, to abate
the nuisance. The third party abating said nuisance may, in its own name, file
and foreclose on a lien as described in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-15.
(1994 Code, § 25-2-5) (Ord. 17-12, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 93.25 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for the weed and grass removal undertaken by the village or an
authorized third party after the failure of the owner or occupant served with
the notice to abate the nuisance shall be a lien upon the premises, perfection
and enforcement of which is authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-7 and
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-15, which are hereby implemented by reference.
   (B)   Following abatement by the village, a notice will be sent to the
property owners, as indicated by the tax bill for general taxes on the property
for the taxable year immediately preceding the removal activities, by certified
mail or personal service. If the property is abandoned, said notice will be
posted on the premises. Said notice will contain:
      (1)   The substance of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-15 and this section;
      (2)   An identification of the parcel in violation by common description;
and
      (3)   A description of the removal activity.
   (C)   Following the transmittal and/or delivery of the notice as described
in division (B) above, the village may record a lien in the Madison County
Recorder’s Office representing:
      (1)   A description of the underlying parcel;
      (2)   The amount of the removal cost; and
      (3)   The date(s) when the removal cost was incurred by the village.
   (D)   The village will have one year from the date of removal to record a
lien, and the village may record one lien for multiple removals occurring on
the same parcel of property over the course of the year.
(1994 Code, § 25-2-6) (Ord. 17-12, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 93.26 PAYMENT.
   (A)   Notice of the lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises
at his, her, or its address as indicated by the tax bill for general taxes on
the property for the taxable year immediately preceding the removal activities.
   (B)   Upon payment of the lien amount and upon payment of the village’s cost
to record said lien, the village, or the person or entity in whose name the
lien has been recorded, will provide the owner with a lien release. The release
may be filed of record by the owner at his, her, or its sole expense as in the
case of filing notice of lien.
   (C)   All lien and release filing fees shall be paid by the owner of the
property.
(1994 Code, § 25-2-7) (Ord. 17-12, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 93.27 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   A lien under this section may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in
the case of mortgages, mechanic’s liens, or other statutory liens. An action to
foreclose a lien under this section may be brought by the village within two
years after the date of filing the notice of lien. A failure to file a
foreclosure action does not, in any way, affect the validity of the lien
against the underlying parcel.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-20-6 and 11-20-7) (1994 Code, § 25-2-8) (Ord. 17-12,
passed 9-12-2017)
GARBAGE AND DEBRIS
§ 93.40 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit any garbage or trash to accumulate on his or her
premises or private property. It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it
shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of real estate to refuse or neglect
to remove the garbage or debris.
(1994 Code, § 25-3-1) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.41 NOTICE TO PERSON.
   (A)   The Mayor, Chief of Police, or the Mayor's designated representative
may issue a written notice for removal of garbage or debris.
   (B)   The garbage or debris shall be removed by the owner or occupant within
five days after the notice has been duly served.
(1994 Code, § 25-3-2)
§ 93.42 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of notice provided for herein may be effected by handing of the same
to the owner, occupant or lessee of the premises, or to any member of his or
her household of the age of 15 years or older found on the premises or by
mailing the notice to the last known residence address of the owner; provided
that if the premises are unoccupied and the owner's address cannot be obtained,
then the notice may be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(1994 Code, § 25-3-3)
§ 93.43 ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days, the
village may proceed to abate the nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of
the abatement and the expense shall be charged and paid by the owner or
occupant.
(1994 Code, § 25-3-4)
§ 93.44 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for the removal shall be a lien upon the premises.
   (B)   A bill representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the
service shall be presented to the owner.
   (C)   If this bill is not paid within 30 days of submission of the bill, a
notice of lien of the cost and expenses thereof incurred by the village shall
be recorded in the following manner:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred.
(1994 Code, § 25-3-5)
§ 93.45 PAYMENT.
   Notice of the lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his
or her address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice of
lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the village or person in
whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in
the same manner as filing notice of the lien.
(1994 Code, § 25-3-6)
§ 93.46 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for non-
payment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the
charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory
liens.
   (B)   The foreclosure shall be in the name of the village, after lien is in
effect for 60 days.
   (C)   Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within two years after
the date of filing notice of lien.
(1994 Code, § 25-3-7)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-13
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE
§ 93.60 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES. Any vehicle that:
      (1)   For a period of seven days or longer, is not in operating condition
or does not have a valid registration.
      (2)   Is missing essential parts, such as tires, engine, or transmission,
that are necessary for the vehicle to be operated legally on public roads.
      (3)   Is visibly damaged and not safe for use.
      (4)   Is covered by a tarp, car cover, or other material as an attempt to
conceal the inoperable condition. Such covering shall not be considered a
corrective action and does not satisfy the requirements of this section.
      (5)   Is parked in a location visible from public property or neighboring
properties.
(1994 Code, § 25-4-1) (Ord. 10-12, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 24-10, passed 9-3-
2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-3.1
§ 93.61 STORAGE AND REMOVAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to store any inoperable motor vehicle in view of the
public or neighboring properties unless it is within a fully enclosed
structure. Property owners or occupants shall be given notice to repair,
remove, or properly store the inoperable vehicle within seven days of
notification by the village. Covering an inoperable vehicle with a tarp, car
cover, or other similar means does not constitute compliance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   Failure to comply will result in the village taking action to remove
the vehicle at the owner's expense. The village may tow and impound the
vehicle, with all costs associated with towing and storage being charged to the
vehicle owner.
(1994 Code, § 25-4-2) (Ord. 24-10, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 93.62 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   A person is required to dispose of any inoperable motor vehicle(s) or parts
thereof under his or her control within seven days after written notice is
issued by the Chief of Police or any member of his or her Department designated
by him or her, commanding removal and disposition of the inoperable motor
vehicle(s).
(1994 Code, § 25-4-3)
§ 93.63 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Vehicle on private property. If the inoperable motor vehicle(s) is
located upon private property, service of notice provided for herein may be
effected by handing the same to the owner, occupant or lessee of the premises
upon which an inoperable motor vehicle is located, or to any member of his or
her household of the age of 15 years or older found on the premises or mailing
the notice to the last known residence address of the occupant or lessee of the
premises, provided that if the premises are unoccupied and the owner's address
cannot be obtained, then the notice may be served by posting the same upon the
premises.
   (B)   Public property. If the inoperable motor vehicle(s) is located upon
public property, service of notice provided for herein may be effected by
handing same to the owner of the inoperable motor vehicle or by sending the
notice to the last known address of the owner of the vehicle, or by posting the
notice on the vehicle.
(1994 Code, § 25-4-4)
§ 93.64 FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   If a person fails to remove and dispose of any inoperable motor vehicle(s)
or parts thereof under his or her control within seven days from the issuance
of the foregoing municipal notice, the Village Police Department may remove the
inoperable motor vehicle(s) or parts thereof from the property.
(1994 Code, § 25-4-5)
§ 93.65 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the foregoing provisions shall apply to any motor vehicle(s) which
is kept within a building when not in use, to operable historic vehicles over
25 years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a duly licensed and
legal place of business engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
(1994 Code, § 25-4-7) (Ord. 97-07, passed 9-16-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-3
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter shall be subject to fines as established by
the Village Code and enforced through the appropriate court system. Each day a
violation continues after the deadline for correction shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to fines, the village may seek injunctive relief to abate
any nuisance that poses an immediate threat to public health or safety. The
costs of abatement may be recovered from the property owner through a lien
placed on the property.
(1994 Code, § 25-4-6) (Ord. 24-10, passed 9-3-2024)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Destruction of park property
   
94.02   Littering; water pollution
   
94.03   Fires in parks
   
94.04   Picnics
   
94.05   Erection of structures
   
94.06   Signs
   
94.07   Animals
   
94.08   Motor vehicles
   
94.09   Sales; amusements for gain
   
94.10   Group activities
   
94.11   Application for permit
   
94.12   Decision on permit application
   
94.13   Issuance/denial of permit
   
94.14   Appeal
§ 94.01 DESTRUCTION OF PARK PROPERTY.
   Within the municipal parks, no person except park personnel on official
business, shall:
   (A)   Cut, break, injure, destroy, take or remove any tree, shrub, timber,
plant or natural object;
   (B)   Kill, cause to be killed, or pursue with intent to kill, any bird or
animal, except in areas where the village has authorized hunting;
   (C)   Take any fish from park waters contrary to village-promulgated fishing
regulations; or
   (D)   Willfully mutilate, injure or destroy any building, bridge, table,
bench, fireplace, guide post, notice, tablet, fence, monument or other park
property or appurtenances.
(1994 Code, § 28-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 LITTERING; WATER POLLUTION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall deposit any trash within the municipal parks
except in proper receptacles where these are provided.
      (2)   Where receptacles are not provided, all trash shall be carried away
from the parks by the person responsible for its presence, and be properly
disposed of elsewhere.
   (B)   No person shall discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in
the waters of any fountain, lake, stream or other body of water in or adjacent
to any park or in any tributary, stream, storm sewer or drain flowing into such
waters, any substance or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in
the pollution of the waters.
(1994 Code, § 28-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 FIRES IN PARKS.
   (A)   No person shall light or use any unenclosed picnic fire within the
municipal parks. Fires may be built only in fireplaces or on grills constructed
for that purpose in designated areas.
   (B)   In camping areas, no person shall leave any camp fire unattended by a
competent person.
   (C)   Every person who has lighted or used any fire in a municipal park
shall extinguish the fire before leaving the park.
(1994 Code, § 28-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 PICNICS.
   No person shall picnic in the municipal parks, except in areas designated
for that purpose. Park personnel are hereby authorized to regulate the
activities in those areas when necessary to prevent congestion or to secure the
maximum use, comfort and convenience of all. Visitors shall comply with any
directions given to achieve this end.
(1994 Code, § 28-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 ERECTION OF STRUCTURES.
   No person shall build or place any tent, building, booth, stand or other
structure in or upon any municipal park or other recreational facility unless
he or she has obtained a permit to do so from the village.
(1994 Code, § 28-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06 SIGNS.
   No person shall place within any municipal park or affix to any object
therein any sign or device designed to advertise any business, profession,
exhibition, event or thing unless he or she has obtained a permit to do so from
the village.
(1994 Code, § 28-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.07 ANIMALS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Bring any dangerous animal into any municipal park;
   (B)   Permit any dog to be in any park unless the dog is on a leash; or
   (C)   Ride or lead any horse in any municipal park or recreational area
except upon paths or other ways expressly provided and posted for that purpose.
(1994 Code, § 28-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.08 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person, other than municipal personnel on official business, shall drive
or park any motor vehicle in any municipal park except on a roadway or parking
lot.
(1994 Code, § 28-1-8)
§ 94.09 SALES; AMUSEMENTS FOR GAIN.
   Within the parks of this municipality, no person shall, without first having
obtained a permit from the village:
   (A)   Sell or offer for sale any goods or services; or
   (B)   Conduct any amusement for gain or for which a charge is made.
(1994 Code, § 28-1-9)
§ 94.10 GROUP ACTIVITIES.
   Whenever any group or organization desires to use municipal park facilities
for a particular purpose such as picnics, parties, exhibitions or performances,
a representative of the group shall first obtain a permit for the activity from
the Village Mayor.
(1994 Code, § 28-1-10)
§ 94.11 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Applications for all permits required by this chapter shall be made in
writing to the Mayor not less than seven days before the proposed date of the
activity for which the permit is sought.
   (B)   Each application shall include the following information:
      (1)   Statement briefly describing the nature of the proposed activity;
      (2)   Name, address and telephone number of the person or organization
wishing to conduct the activity;
      (3)   The date when the activity is to be conducted;
      (4)   The hour when the activity will start and terminate;
      (5)   The park or portion thereof for which the permit is desired; and
      (6)   An estimate of the anticipated attendance.
(1994 Code, § 28-1-11)
§ 94.12 DECISION ON PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   After due consideration of the information contained in the permit
application, but no later than seven days after the application has been filed,
the Mayor shall determine whether the application is satisfactory.
   (B)   An application shall be deemed satisfactory if:
      (1)   The proposed activity or use of the park will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public enjoyment of the park;
      (2)   The facilities desired have not been reserved for other use at the
day and hour requested in the application;
      (3)   The conduct of the activity will not substantially interrupt the
safe and orderly movement of traffic;
      (4)   The proper policing of the activity will not require the diversion
of so great a number of police officers as to prevent normal police protection
to the remainder of this municipality;
      (5)   The conduct of the activity is not reasonably likely to cause
injury to persons or property, or to incite violence, crime or disorderly
conduct; and
      (6)   The activity is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising
any product, goods or event, and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit.
(1994 Code, § 28-1-12)
§ 94.13 ISSUANCE/DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   By regular mail or by telephone the Mayor shall promptly notify every permit
applicant of the decision on his or her application.
   (A)   If the decision is favorable, the Mayor shall issue the permit. As a
condition of the issuance of any permit, the Mayor may require that an
indemnity bond be obtained if, in his or her opinion, the bond is necessary to
protect this municipality from liability or to protect municipal property from
damage.
   (B)   The Mayor shall inform each applicant who has been denied a permit
regarding the reasons for the denial and the procedure for appeals.
(1994 Code, § 28-1-13)
§ 94.14 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any applicant who has been denied a park permit by the Mayor shall
have the right to appeal to the Recreation Committee.
   (B)   The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Village Clerk within two
days after notice of a denial of an application for a permit, a written
statement setting forth specifically the grounds for appeal.
   (C)   The appeal shall be heard by the Recreation Committee within five days
after the filing and its decision shall be final.
(1994 Code, § 28-1-14)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
Street Department
   
95.001   Department established
   
95.002   Committee on Streets
General Regulations
   
95.015   Undermining
   
95.016   Open doors
   
95.017   Vaults
   
95.018   Stairway; railing
   
95.019   Closing street
   
95.020   Signs across street
   
95.021   Vehicles on sidewalks
   
95.022   Deposits on sidewalks
   
95.023   Obstructing street
   
95.024   Rainwater drains
   
95.025   Building materials in street
   
95.026   Merchandise on public street
   
95.027   Encroachments
   
95.028   Posting bills
   
95.029   Signs on poles
   
95.030   Injury to new pavements
   
95.031   Barbed wire fences
   
95.032   Burning on public streets
   
95.033   Unauthorized camping
Trees and Shrubs
   
95.045   Planting
   
95.046   Planting trees in right-of-way
   
95.047   Removal
   
95.048   Injury
   
95.049   Advertisements or notices
   
95.050   Dangerous trees
   
95.051   Wires
   
95.052   International Fuel and Gas Code adopted
Excavations
   
95.065   Permit required
   
95.066   Applications
   
95.067   Fees
   
95.068   Bond
   
95.069   Deposit
   
95.070   Manner of excavating
   
95.071   Sidewalks
   
95.072   Restoring surface
   
95.073   Supervision
   
95.074   Tunneling
   
95.075   Protective measures and routing of traffic
   
95.076   Clearance for vital structures
   
95.077   Protection of traffic
   
95.078   Relocation and protection of utilities
   
95.079   Abandonment of substructures
   
95.080   Protection of adjoining property
   
95.081   Placement of excavated material
   
95.082   Clean-up
   
95.083   Protection of watercourses
   
95.084   Breaking through pavement
   
95.085   Depth of structures
   
95.086   Backfilling
   
95.087   Trenches in pipe laying
   
95.088   Prompt completion of work
   
95.089   Urgent work
   
95.090   Emergency action
   
95.091   Noise, dust and debris
   
95.092   Preservation of monuments
   
95.093   Inspections
   
95.094   Location records
   
95.095   Liability of persons to village for damage
Street Improvements
   
95.110   Sidewalks
   
95.111   Curbs and gutters
   
95.112   Storm sewers
Culverts
   
95.125   Obstruction of drain or storm sewer
   
95.126   Permit for culvert
   
95.127   Type of culvert
   
95.128   Replacement cost
Driveways
   
95.140   Permits required
   
95.141   Fee
   
95.142   Grade surface
   
95.143   Specifications
   
95.144   Breaking curb; bond required
   
95.145   Repair
House Numbering
   
95.160   House numbering required
   
95.161   Assignment of numbers
   
95.162   Numbering system
   
95.163   House numbers affixed to house
Moving Buildings
   
95.175   Permit required
   
95.176   Application for permit
   
95.177   Investigation
   
95.178   Denial of permit
   
95.179   Terms and conditions of permit
   
95.180   Estimate of costs and deposit
   
95.181   Liability insurance
   
95.182   Owner's completion bond
   
95.183   Clearance of site and safety measures required
   
95.184   Inspection fee and permit fee
   
95.185   Issuance of permit
   
95.186   Suspension or revocation of permit
   
95.187   Control and supervision
   
95.188   Notice required
   
95.189   Default in performance or conditions
   
95.190   Approval of route
   
95.191   Obstructing streets
   
95.192   Lights and barricades
   
95.193   Wires and structural supports
   
95.194   Trees, plants and shrubs
   
95.195   Repairs to public property
   
95.196   Refunding of deposits
 
   
95.999   Penalty
STREET DEPARTMENT
§ 95.001 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government,
which shall be known as the Street Department.
   (B)   It shall embrace the Street Committee, the Street Superintendent and
the employees.
   (C)   The Village Engineer, if any, shall serve as ex-officio officer.
(1994 Code, § 33-1-1)
§ 95.002 COMMITTEE ON STREETS.
   (A)   The Village Board Standing Committee on Streets shall exercise a
general supervision over the affairs of the Street Department.
   (B)   It shall ascertain the needs and conditions thereof and shall, from
time to time, report the same to the Mayor and the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 33-1-2)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 95.015 UNDERMINING.
   No person shall undermine in any manner, any street or any other ground or
real estate situated in the village or belonging to any private person.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-1) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.016 OPEN DOORS.
   No person shall open or allow to remain open, any door or the grating of any
vault belonging to the premises occupied by him or her, on any street, alley or
sidewalk in the village for any purpose, except the taking in and removing
goods; and any person allowing the grating to remain open shall warn passers-by
of the danger.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-2) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.017 VAULTS.
   (A)   No person shall dig or cause to be dug in any street or sidewalk, any
vault without covering the opening thereof in such a manner as to prevent
persons, animals and vehicles from falling into the excavation.
   (B)   The vault shall be in conformance with other code provisions.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-3) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.018 STAIRWAY; RAILING.
   Steps or stairways leading into any building shall not extend from the wall
of the building onto any pavement or sidewalk, and in such case, the person
making or causing to be made the passage shall erect a railing on the side of
the stairs toward the street to prevent persons from falling into the street.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-4)
§ 95.019 CLOSING STREET.
   (A)   Whenever public safety or the improvement or repair of any street,
alley or public place requires it, the Mayor may order any street, alley or
public place temporarily closed to traffic and the placing of signs indicating
that the street, alley or public place is closed by order of the Mayor.
   (B)   Whenever the signs are so placed, no person shall ride or drive upon
or cross the street, alley or public place, or in any manner, destroy, deface
or remove any sign.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-5) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.020 SIGNS ACROSS STREET.
   No person shall place any sign, advertisement or banner over any or across
any street or alley in the village unless he or she has written approval of the
Village Board.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-80-17) (1994 Code, § 33-2-6) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.021 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate any bicycle or vehicle over any sidewalk, except in
crossing the same to go into a yard or parking lot.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-7) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.022 DEPOSITS ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk, any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property.
   (B)   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery, provided that the usable width is not thereby reduced
to less than four feet; and provided that no such article shall remain on the
walk for more than one-half hour.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-8) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.023 OBSTRUCTING STREET.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any grass
clippings, or to cause a lawn mower to blow grass clippings onto a street or
any other articles such as glass which may cause injury to any person, animal
or property.
   (B)   No person shall place or cause to be placed or erected on any public
ground, or in any public street, alley or sidewalk in the village, any debris,
materials or obstruction except as may be permitted by this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to exercise a vigilant
supervision over such places and to notify any person found making the deposit
or responsible for same to remove the offending matter at once.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-9) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.024 RAINWATER DRAINS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of any
storm water drain or any drainage pipe in either a natural or human-made ditch
without having first obtained a permit therefor.
   (B)   Applications for the permits shall be made to the Village Clerk and
shall be accompanied by a statement as to the purpose of the drainage pipe, the
premises to be served and the specification of the pipe to be installed.
   (C)   The application shall be referred to the Street Superintendent and no
such permit shall be issued unless he or she shall have found that the Village
Code would be complied with by the installation of the storm water drain or
drainage pipe and that the installation of the storm water drain or drainage
pipe would not interfere with, overload, obstruct or otherwise adversely affect
the existing storm water drainage system within the village.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of any
storm water drain which discharges water onto any sidewalk in the village and
it shall be unlawful to construct or permit the maintenance of any such drain
which discharges into any public street or alley at a height greater than 18
inches above the ground or pavement.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-10) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.025 BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET.
   (A)   The Street Superintendent may move any obstruction on any street or
sidewalk of the village, but before doing so, he or she shall notify the person
responsible therefor to remove the obstruction within a reasonable time after
being notified.
   (B)   Any person engaged in erecting a building or fence or improving any
lot on the street may deposit materials thereon and contiguous to the length of
time as may be necessary for the work.
   (C)   The obstruction shall not extend to more than one-half of the width of
the sidewalk, street or alley adjacent to the improvement and the gutter shall
always be left free and unobstructed.
   (D)   The person shall, at night, keep an illuminated warning light on the
material.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-11) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.026 MERCHANDISE ON PUBLIC STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk or other public places as space for the display of goods or
merchandise for sale; or to write or make any signs or advertisements on any
such pavements, unless permission is granted by the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-12) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.027 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-13) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.028 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any tree, lamp
post, utility pole, hydrant or upon any private wall, door or gate without the
consent, in writing, of the owner of the curbstone, flagstone, sidewalk, tree,
lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, private wall, door or gate.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-14) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.029 SIGNS ON POLES.
   No person shall nail, tack, paste, paint or fasten or cause to be nailed,
tacked, painted or fastened, any sign or any other foreign substance or
material onto any telephone, telegraph, electric light, police and/or fire
alarm pole or post, or any street or traffic sign located on any sidewalk,
street, alley or public grounds or injure or deface any such pole or post.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-15) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.030 INJURY TO NEW PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon or
destroy any newly-laid sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a warning
sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft, newly-laid pavement.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-16) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.031 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or
in part of barbed wire, or with any similar material designed to cause injury
to persons, or any wire charged with electric current, anywhere within 50 feet
of any public street, sidewalk, alley, park or other public way or place,
unless the barbs or charged wire are at least six feet above the level of the
public place.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-17) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.032 BURNING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish or
other substances upon any of the public streets, sidewalks or alleys of the
village.
(1994 Code, § 33-2-18) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.033 UNAUTHORIZED CAMPING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CAMPING. Erecting a tent or shelter or arranging bedding, or both, for
the purpose of, or in such a way as will permit, remaining overnight, or
parking a motor vehicle, motor home, or trailer for the purpose or apparent
purpose of overnight occupancy.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any property owned, leased, or controlled by the Village
of South Roxana.
      ROADWAY. Any road, street, highway, or thoroughfare within the Village of
South Roxana.
   (B)   Prohibition of unauthorized camping. No person shall camp in or upon
any public property or within [specific distance] feet of any roadway within
the Village of South Roxana, unless otherwise specifically authorized by the
Village of South Roxana.
   (C)   Enforcement. Any person found to be in violation of this section shall
be subject to removal from the public property or vicinity of the roadway and
may be subject to fines as established by the Village of South Roxana. The
Village of South Roxana Police Department shall have the authority to enforce
the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 24-02, passed 2-6-2024)
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 95.045 PLANTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public street or
parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit therefor.
   (B)   Applications for the permits shall be made to the Street
Superintendent and shall be referred by him or her to the Village Board.
   (C)   All trees and shrubs so planted shall be placed subject to the
directions and approval of the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 33-3-1) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.046 PLANTING TREES IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any bushes, trees, shrubs or other plants on
the right-of-way of any public street, including in the space on the right-of-
way between the sidewalk and the adjacent street pavement.
(1994 Code, § 33-3-2) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.047 REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub or portion
thereof in any street, parkway or other public place without having first
secured a permit therefor. Applications for the permits shall be made to the
Street Superintendent and shall be referred by him or her to the Village Board
before permission shall be granted.
(1994 Code, § 33-3-3) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.048 INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in any such public
place.
(1994 Code, § 33-3-4) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.049 ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree
or shrub in any street, parkway or other public place.
(1994 Code, § 33-3-5) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.050 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the municipality at less a height than eight feet, or in such a way as
to impede or interfere with traffic or travel on the public place shall be
trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the premises on which the
tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on
which the tree grows or stands. The Street Superintendent may, at the owner's
expense, trim or remove any tree or shrub so that the obstruction or danger to
traffic or passage shall be done away with.
(1994 Code, § 33-3-6) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.051 WIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wires or rope to any tree or shrub
in any public street, parkway or other public place without the permission of
the Village Board.
   (B)   Any person or company given the right to maintain the poles and wires
in the streets, alleys or other public places in the municipality shall, in the
absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep the wires
and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so far as
may be possible and shall keep all the trees and shrubs properly trimmed,
subject to the supervision of the Street Superintendent so that no injury shall
be done either to the poles or wires or the shrubs and trees by their conduct.
(1994 Code, § 33-3-7) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.052 INTERNATIONAL FUEL AND GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document entitled “The International Fuel and Gas Code, 2018
Edition” published by the International Code Council, 4051 West Flossmoor Road,
Country Club Hills, Illinois, one copy of which is on file at the Building
Division of the Community Development Department of the Village of Sugar Grove,
is hereby adopted as the “2018 Fuel and Gas Code” for the village for
regulating the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of every building or structure or any appurtenances
connected or attached to such buildings or structures in the village as
provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said “International Fuel and Gas Code, 2018 Edition”
are adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in the code.
(1994 Code, § 33-3-8) (Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022) Penalty, see §
95.999
EXCAVATIONS
§ 95.065 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tunnel under or
to make any excavation in any street, alley or other public place in the
village without having obtained a permit as is herein required, or without
complying with the provisions of this subchapter or in violation of or variance
from the terms of any permit.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-1) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.066 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for the permits shall be made to the Clerk, and shall describe
the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof, the
purpose therefor, and the person, firm or corporation doing the actual
excavating work and the name of the person, firm or corporation for whom or
which the work is being done, and shall contain an agreement that the applicant
will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be done.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-2)
§ 95.067 FEES.
   The fee for the permits shall be:
   (A)   Excavation in asphalt or Portland cement concrete pavement or surface:
$.25 per square foot;
   (B)   Excavation in brick pavement or surface: $.25 per square foot;
   (C)   Excavation in oil treated street surface: $.25 per square foot; and
   (D)   Excavation in untreated or unimproved street or surface: $.25 per
square foot.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-3)
§ 95.068 BOND.
   No permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has filed
with the Clerk a bond in the sum of $50,000, conditioned to indemnify the
village for any loss, liability or damage that may result or accrue from or
because of the making, existence or manner of guarding or constructing any
tunnel or excavation. The bond shall have as surety a corporation licensed to
do business in the state as a surety company.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-4)
§ 95.069 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor
has deposited with the Clerk a cash deposit in the sum of $250, if no pavement
is involved, and $1,000 if the excavation is a paved area, to ensure the proper
restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement to ensure the proper
restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement, if any.
   (B)   From this deposit shall be deducted the expense to the village of
relaying the surface of the ground or pavement and of making the refill if this
is done by the village or at its expense, and the balance shall be returned to
the applicant without interest after the tunnel or excavation is completely
refilled and the surface or pavement is restored.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-5)
§ 95.070 MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in
any way contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor.
      (2)   Proper bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of
adjoining ground; and in excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere
below the surface any portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making
of the excavations or tunnels; and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any pipes, cables or conduits or to the village department or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any excavation or tunnel before the pipes, cables or
conduits shall be disturbed.
   (C)   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or
the roots thereof.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-6) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.071 SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. The temporary sidewalk is subject to inspection by the Street
Superintendent and shall not be open for use until approved by him or her.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-7)
§ 95.072 RESTORING SURFACE.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or
under any public street, alley or other public place in the village shall
restore the surface to its original condition if there is no pavement there.
Refills shall be properly tamped down, and any bracing in the tunnel or
excavation shall be left in the ground.
   (B)   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface relaid by the applicant in compliance with the village
code(s) and under the supervision of the Street Superintendent.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-8)
§ 95.073 SUPERVISION.
   The Street Superintendent shall, from time to time, inspect or cause to be
inspected, all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public
street, alley or other place in the village to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter. Notice shall be given to him or her at least ten
hours before the work of refilling any tunnel or excavation commences.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-9)
§ 95.074 TUNNELING.
   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any portion of a street or
sidewalk in the village which is paved with a concrete or asphalt paving. Where
necessary, and where a proper permit has been secured, tunnels may be driven or
excavated under any such pavement provided that, upon completion of the work
involved, the tunnel shall be backfilled with compacted sand.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-10) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.075 PROTECTIVE MEASURES AND ROUTING OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person cutting or making an excavation
in or upon any public place to place and maintain barriers and warning devices
necessary for safety of the general public.
   (B)   Barriers, warning signs, lights and the like shall conform to the
requirements of all applicable village codes. Warning lights shall be flares,
torches, lanterns, electrical markers or flashers used to indicate a hazard to
traffic from sunset of each day to sunrise of the next day. Torches shall be
open wick or flame flares or bombs generally used in connection with roadway
repairs or construction and operating on kerosene or similar fluid.
   (C)   Lanterns shall burn kerosene or a similar fluid, and have clear red or
ruby globes. Electrical markers or flashers shall emit light at sufficient
intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for safety.
Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not replace
light sources. The Village Board may restrict the use of lanterns or open flame
devices in fire hazard areas.
   (D)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that during
the performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions as near normal as
possible shall be maintained at all times so as to minimize inconvenience to
the occupants of the adjoining property and to the general public.
   (E)   When traffic conditions permit the Street Superintendent may, by
written approval, permit the closing of streets and alleys to all traffic for a
period of time prescribed by him if, in his or her opinion, it is necessary.
The written approval may require that the permittee give notification to
various public agencies and to the general public.
   (F)   In such cases, the written approval shall not be valid until the
notice is given. Warning signs shall be placed far enough in advance of the
construction operation to alert traffic within a public street and cones or
other approved devices shall be placed to channel traffic in accordance with
the instructions of the Street Superintendent.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-11) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.076 CLEARANCE FOR VITAL STRUCTURES.
   The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere
with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, water gates,
underground vaults, valve housing structures and all other vital equipment as
designated by the Street Superintendent.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-12)
§ 95.077 PROTECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The permittee shall maintain safe crossings for two lanes of vehicle
traffic at all street intersections where possible and safe crossings for
pedestrians at intervals of not more than 300 feet. If any excavation is made
across any public street, alley or sidewalk, adequate crossings shall be
maintained for vehicles and for pedestrians.
   (B)   If the street is not wide enough to hold the excavated material
without using part of the adjacent sidewalk, a passageway at least one-half of
the sidewalk width shall be maintained along the sidewalk line.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-13)
§ 95.078 RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   The permittee shall not interfere with any existing facility without
the written consent of the Street Superintendent and the owner of the facility.
If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing facility, this shall be done by
its owner. The facility owned by the village shall be moved to accommodate the
permittee unless the cost of the work be borne by the permittee. The cost of
moving privately-owned facilities shall be similarly borne by the permittee
unless it makes other arrangements with the person owning the facility. The
permittee shall support and protect by timbers or otherwise all pipes,
conduits, poles, wires or other apparatus which may be in any way affected by
the excavation work, and do everything necessary to support, sustain and
protect them under, over, along or across the work. The permittee shall secure
approval of method of support and protection from the owner of the facility.
   (B)   In case any of the pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus should
be damaged, and for this purpose, pipe coating or other encasement or devices
are to be considered as part of a substructure, the permittee shall promptly
notify the owner thereof. All damaged facilities shall be repaired by the
agency or person owning them and the expense of the repairs shall be charged to
the permittee. It is the intent of this division that the permittee shall
assume all liability for damage to facilities and any resulting damage or
injury to anyone because of the facility damage and the assumption of liability
is a contractual obligation of the permittee. The only exception will be the
instances where damage is exclusively due to the negligence of the owning
utility. The village shall not be made a party to any action because of this
section. The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence and location of
all underground facilities and protect the same against damage.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-14)
§ 95.079 ABANDONMENT OF SUBSTRUCTURES.
   (A)   Whenever the use of a substructure is abandoned, except the
abandonment of service lines designed to serve single properties, the person
owning, using, controlling or having an interest therein, shall, within 30 days
after the abandonment, file with the Street Superintendent a statement in
writing giving in detail the location of the substructure so abandoned.
   (B)   If the abandoned substructure is in the way or subsequently becomes in
the way of an installation of the village or any other public body, which
installation is pursuant to a governmental function, the owner shall remove the
abandoned substructure or pay the cost of its removal during the course of
excavation for construction of the facility by the village or any other public
body.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-15)
§ 95.080 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   (A)   The permittee shall, at all times, and at his or its own expense,
preserve and protect from injury, any adjoining property by providing proper
foundations and taking other measures suitable for the purpose. Where, in the
protection of the property it is necessary to enter upon private property for
the purpose of taking appropriate protecting measures, the permittee shall
obtain consent from the owner of the private property for the purpose and if he
or she cannot obtain the consent, the Street Superintendent may authorize him
or her to enter the private premises solely for the purpose of making the
property safe.
   (B)   The permittee shall, at its own expense, shore up and protect all
buildings, walls, fences or other property likely to be damaged during the
progress of the excavation work and shall be responsible for all damage to
public or private property or highways resulting from its failure to properly
protect and carry out the work. Whenever it may be necessary for the permittee
to trench through any lawn area, the area shall be re-seeded or the sod shall
be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after ditches have been backfilled as
required in this subchapter.
   (C)   All construction and maintenance work shall be done in a manner
calculated to leave the lawn area clean of earth and debris and in a condition
as nearly as possible to that which existed before the work began. The
permittee shall not remove, even temporarily, any trees or shrubs which exist
in parking street areas without first obtaining the consent of the appropriate
village department or official having supervision of the property.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 95.081 PLACEMENT OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   (A)   (1)   All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the
trench or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such a manner as not
to endanger those working in the trench, pedestrians or users of the streets,
and so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using
streets and adjoining property.
      (2)   Where the confines of the area being excavated are too narrow to
permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench, such as might be the
case in a narrow alley, the Street Superintendent shall have the authority to
require that the permittee haul the excavated material to a storage site and
then re-haul it to the trench site at the time of backfilling.
   (B)   It shall be the permittee's responsibility to secure the necessary
permission and make all necessary arrangements for all required storage and
disposal sites.
   (C)   All material excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of the
trench and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as reasonably
possible to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specified by the Street
Superintendent. Whenever necessary, in order to expedite the flow of traffic or
to abate the dirt or dust nuisance, toe boards or bins may be required by the
Street Superintendent to prevent the spreading of dirt into traffic lanes.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-17)
§ 95.082 CLEAN-UP.
   (A)   As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be thoroughly
cleaned of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris resulting from the
work. All clean-up operations at the location of the excavation shall be
accomplished at the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the
satisfaction of the Street Superintendent.
   (B)   From time to time, as may be ordered by the Street Superintendent and
in any event, immediately after completion of the work, the permittee shall, at
his or her or its own expense, clean up and remove all refuse and unused
materials of any kind resulting from the work, and upon failure to do so within
24 hours after having been notified to do so by the Street Superintendent, the
work may be done by the Superintendent and the cost thereof charged to the
permittee, and the permittee shall also be liable for the cost thereof under
the surety bond provided hereunder.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-18)
§ 95.083 PROTECTION OF WATERCOURSES.
   (A)   The permittee shall maintain all gutters free and unobstructed for the
full depth of the adjacent curb and for at least one foot in width from the
face of the curb at the gutter line. Whenever a gutter crosses an intersecting
street, an adequate waterway shall be provided and at all times maintained.
   (B)   The permittee shall make provisions to take care of all surplus water,
muck, silt, slickings or other run-off pumped from excavations or resulting
from sluicing or other operations and shall be responsible for any damage
resulting from its failure to so provide.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-19)
§ 95.084 BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Heavy duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the Street
Superintendent when the use endangers existing substructures or other property.
   (B)   Saw cutting of portland cement concrete may be required when the
nature of the work or the condition of the street warrants. When required, the
depth of the cut shall not be less than one inch in depth; however, depths
greater than one inch may be required by the Street Superintendent when
circumstances warrant. Saw cutting may be required by the Superintendent
outside the limits of the excavation over cave-outs, over-breaks and small
floating sections.
   (C)   Approved cutting of bituminous pavement surface ahead of excavations
may be required by the Street Superintendent to confine pavement damage to the
limits of the trench.
   (D)   Sections of sidewalks shall be removed to the nearest score line or
joint.
   (E)   Unstable pavement shall be removed over cave-outs and over-breaks and
the subgrade shall be treated as the main trench.
   (F)   Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly aligned
with the center line of the trench.
   (G)   Cutouts outside of the trench lines must be normal or parallel to the
trench line.
   (H)   Boring or other methods to prevent cutting of new pavement may be
required by the Street Superintendent.
   (I)   The permittee shall not be required to repair pavement damage existing
prior to excavation unless his or her cut results in small floating sections
that may be unstable, in which case, the permittee shall remove and pave the
area.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-20)
§ 95.085 DEPTH OF STRUCTURES.
   No person shall, without written permission of the Street Superintendent,
install any substructure except manholes, vaults, valve casings, culverts and
catch basins at a vertical distance less than:
   (A)   Streets.   Twenty-four inches below the established flow line of the
nearest gutter. If the flow line is not established, then the depth shall be at
a minimum of 24 inches below the surface of the nearest outermost edge of the
traveled portion of the street;
   (B)   Parkway.
      (1)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 16 inches below
established gutter grade when the substructure parallels the parkway.
      (2)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 12 inches below the
top of the established sidewalk or curb when the substructure is at right
angles to the parkway.
   (C)   Other public places. The minimum depth of any substructure in any
other public place shall be 12 inches below the surface; and
   (D)   Duty. Nothing in this section shall impose a duty upon the permittee
to maintain the specifications as required herein upon subsequent changes of
grade in the surface unless the grade in the substructure interferes with the
maintenance of or travel on a public street.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-21)
§ 95.086 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   Fine material, free from lumps and stone, selected from the soil shall
be thoroughly compacted around and under the substructure to the upper level of
the substructure.
   (B)   Above the upper level of the substructure, backfill material shall be
placed to the subgrade of the pavement in lifts consistent with the type of
soil involved and the degree of consolidation specified by the Village Board.
Broken pavement, large stones, roots and other debris shall not be used in the
backfill.
   (C)   The number and size of each lift shall be dependent upon the type of
soil involved. The backfill shall be done in a manner that will permit the
restoration of the surface to a density condition not less than that existing
prior to excavation unless otherwise specified.
   (D)   The Street Superintendent may require soil tests to be furnished by a
recognized soil testing laboratory or registered professional engineer
specializing in soil mechanics when, in his or her opinion, backfill for any
excavation is not being adequately compacted.
   (E)   In order for the resurfacing to be permitted, the tests must show that
the backfill material meets the minimum requirements as prescribed by the
Village Board. All expense of the tests shall be borne by the permittee.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-22)
§ 95.087 TRENCHES IN PIPE LAYING.
   The maximum length of open trench permissible at any time shall be in
accordance with existing codes and regulations.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-23)
§ 95.088 PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK.
   After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with
diligence and expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit
and shall promptly complete the work and restore the street to its original
condition, or as near as may be so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary.
(1994 Code, § 34-4-24)
§ 95.089 URGENT WORK.
   When traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the traveling public
or the public interest require that the excavation work be performed as
emergency work, the Street Superintendent shall have full power to order, at
the time the permit is granted, that a crew of men and adequate facilities be
employed by the permittee 24 hours a day to the end that the excavation work
may be completed as soon as possible.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-25)
§ 95.090 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the making of the
excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for
the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs, provided
that the person making the excavation shall apply to the Street Superintendent
for such a permit on the first working day after the work is commenced.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-26)
§ 95.091 NOISE, DUST AND DEBRIS.
   (A)   Each permittee shall conduct and carry out excavation work in such a
manner as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general
public and occupants of neighboring property.
   (B)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to reduce to the fullest
extent practicable in the performance of the excavation work, noise, dust and
unsightly debris and between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. shall not
use except in case of emergency as herein otherwise provided, any tool,
appliance or equipment producing noise of sufficient volume to disturb the
sleep or repose of occupants of the neighboring property.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-27)
§ 95.092 PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS.
   Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision or a precise survey reference point, or a
permanent survey bench mark within the village, shall not be removed or
disturbed or caused to be removed or disturbed without first obtaining
permission in writing from the Village Board to do so. Permission to remove or
disturb the monuments, reference points or bench marks shall only be granted
upon condition that the person applying for the permission shall pay all
expenses incident to the proper replacement of this monument by the village.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-28)
§ 95.093 INSPECTIONS.
   The Street Superintendent shall make such inspections as are reasonably
necessary in the enforcement of this subchapter. The Superintendent shall have
the authority to promulgate and cause to be enforced the rules and regulations
as may be reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of this
subchapter.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-29)
§ 95.094 LOCATION RECORDS.
   (A)   Every public utility, after the enactment of this subchapter, shall
maintain records showing the location of all of its underground facilities
except relatively minor facilities which connect a particular premise or
building to a facility serving more than one premise or building, and except
oil or gas gathering or field lines.
   (B)   Every public utility shall maintain equipment which can locate the
facilities in the field.
(1994 Code, § 33-4-30)
§ 95.095 LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO VILLAGE FOR DAMAGE.
   If any person violates any provision of this chapter and any person or
property in consequence thereof is injured or damaged, the person so guilty of
the violation shall be liable to the village in relation thereto, and no
prosecution or other proceeding by the village of the person for any penalty
imposed for a violation shall constitute a bar to action by the village for the
damages.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-80-1 through 11-80-23) (1994 Code, § 33-4-31)
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 95.110 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Grade. No sidewalk shall be built above or below the established grade
of the village and in all cases where no grade is established, any person
building a sidewalk shall build the same according to the instructions of the
Street Superintendent and the Village Board.
   (B)   Permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to build, lay or construct
any sidewalk along any property in the village or along any of the streets,
alleys or public highways thereon, without first obtaining permission from the
Street Superintendent to do so.
   (C)   Cost to owner.
      (1)   If the funds are available and the Village Board approves the
request, the property owner shall pay the cost of the concrete and thereafter
the sidewalk shall be constructed by the village.
      (2)   The cost of construction shall not include any engineering fees;
these shall be paid by the village.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This is not applicable to new subdivisions.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-80-13) (1994 Code, § 33-5-1) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.111 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   Request in writing. Any person owning property within the village who
desires to have new curbs and gutters constructed along the street adjoining
his or her premises shall file a request with the Street Superintendent, giving
the location of the property and the length of the curbs and gutters requested.
   (B)   Cost to owner. If the funds are available and the Village Board
approves the request, the property owner shall pay one-half of the cost of the
construction and thereafter, the curb and gutter will be constructed by the
village. The cost of construction shall not include any engineering fees; these
shall be paid by the village.
   (C)   Approval by Village Board. The approval of the request for
construction of curbs and gutters by the Village Board shall be dependent upon
the approval of funds, priority of projects and continuity of construction for
the best benefit of the village as determined by the Village Board.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This is not applicable to new subdivisions.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-80-13) (1994 Code, § 33-5-2)
§ 95.112 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Description of storm water sewers. Storm water sewers shall be any
pipe or sewer used for the carrying of surface drains, ground waters, roof
leaders or storm waters, rain waters or other waters other than sanitary
sewage.
   (B)   Supervision. The Superintendent of Utilities shall supervise all
connections made to the public storm sewer system or excavations for the
purposes of installing or repairing the same.
   (C)   Permits. Before any connection is made to the public storm water
sewers, a permit shall be applied for and approved by the Superintendent or his
or her designated representative.
   (D)   Requirements; use of storm water sewers.
      (1)   Where a storm water sewer is accessible in a street, alley or
easement to a building or premises abutting thereon, the surface drains, ground
waters, roof leaders or storm waters shall be discharged into the storm water
sewer unless otherwise authorized by the village.
      (2)   Under no conditions shall sanitary sewage or wastes or any
substance other than surface waters, ground waters, roof waters or storm waters
be permitted to flow into or be connected to the storm water sewer, if any; and
no sanitary sewer, if any, shall be connected to the storm water sewer system.
(1994 Code, § 33-5-3)
CULVERTS
§ 95.125 OBSTRUCTION OF DRAIN OR STORM SEWER.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain or storm sewer, if any, in any
public street or property.
(1994 Code, § 33-6-1) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.126 PERMIT FOR CULVERT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to install any culvert or replace any culvert
without first obtaining a permit from the Street Committee.
   (B)   Thereafter, the village will purchase an approved culvert and install
the same. The village shall be responsible for the expense of no more than one
culvert per home or business establishment. An applicant requesting a culvert
in excess of 20 linear feet shall be at the expense of the applicant.
(1994 Code, § 33-6-2) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.127 TYPE OF CULVERT.
   (A)   Culverts shall be installed where driveways or walkways cross open
ditches.
   (B)   The material used for the construction of the culverts shall be
reinforced concrete, corrugated steel culvert pipe with a minimum wall
thickness of 16 gauge, corrugated aluminum alloy culvert pipe with a minimum
wall thickness of 16 gauge, asbestos cement storm drain pipe (Class IV), or of
such other material as determined by the Street Committee, depending on the
conditions existing.
   (C)   The culverts shall be of such size, installed at the grade and
constructed with couplings as determined by the Street Committee. The village
shall install the culvert.
(1994 Code, § 33-6-3)
§ 95.128 REPLACEMENT COST.
   The expense of replacing any culvert shall be borne by the person making
application for the permit to install the culvert.
(1994 Code, § 33-6-4)
DRIVEWAYS
§ 95.140 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles or animals across
any sidewalk in the village without having first obtained a permit therefor.
   (B)   Applications for the permits shall be made to the Village Clerk and
shall be accompanied by the fee required.
   (C)   No permit for construction of a driveway for commercial use or for the
habitual use of other than the owner or occupant of the premises served shall
be issued except upon the order of the Village Clerk.
(1994 Code, § 33-7-1) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.141 FEE.
   The fee for all the construction shall be $1.
(1994 Code, § 33-7-2)
§ 95.142 GRADE SURFACE.
   (A)   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step,
sharp depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk.
   (B)   The grade shall be as nearly as possible the same as that of the
adjoining sidewalk.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway where
the same crosses the sidewalk constructed of the materials as to render it
slippery and hazardous to pedestrians, or to have the grade of the portion vary
from the grade of the sidewalk or be other than level.
(1994 Code, § 33-7-3) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.143 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed in compliance with the
specifications required by the Street Superintendent.
(1994 Code, § 33-7-4)
§ 95.144 BREAKING CURB; BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a permit can be issued to break a curb in the village for the
installation of a driveway or any other purpose, a bond or cash in the amount
of $100 is required to be posted with the Village Clerk.
(1994 Code, § 33-7-5)
§ 95.145 REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining the driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free from obstruction and
openings.
(1994 Code, § 33-7-6)
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 95.160 HOUSE NUMBERING REQUIRED.
   All houses constructed or to be constructed within the village shall, at the
expense of the owner thereof, be provided with a number in the manner as
hereinafter provided.
(1994 Code, § 33-8-1)
§ 95.161 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   In numbering houses, each lot shall be assigned a number, regardless of size
and shape of lot on all streets through the village.
(1994 Code, § 33-8-2)
§ 95.162 NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   The plan or system for numbering houses in the village shall be as follows:
   (A)   The base line for all streets running north and south shall be Madison
Avenue and for all streets running west and east, shall be Route No. 111. Even
numbers shall be on the left and odd numbers on the right starting from the
base line (Madison Avenue);
   (B)   Odd numbers shall be on the left and even on the right starting from
the base line (Route No. 111): on all streets, the numbering shall commence
with the number "one" at each side of the respective bases and shall increase
at the rate of 100 numbers for each block; and
   (C)   The Clerk shall keep a chart showing the proper street number of every
lot of the village, which shall be open to inspection by anyone interested.
(1994 Code, § 33-8-3)
§ 95.163 HOUSE NUMBERS AFFIXED TO HOUSE.
   The owners and occupants of every house in the village shall have placed
thereon, in a place visible from the streets, figures at least two and one-half
inches high, showing the number of the house.
(1994 Code, § 33-8-4)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 95.175 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or cause to be moved any
building in, into, through or from the village without first obtaining a permit
therefor from the Clerk of the village and abiding by all other requirements of
this subchapter as hereinafter stated. The permit shall be known as a "house
moving permit".
(1994 Code, § 33-9-1) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.176 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring such a permit shall file with the Village Clerk an
application therefor in writing on a form to be furnished by the village for
that purpose.
   (B)   The application shall specify the following:
      (1)   The character and size of the building to be moved;
      (2)   The reason for the moving;
      (3)   The use, purpose and occupancy which the building or structure is
to be used;
      (4)   The location from which and to which the building is to be moved;
      (5)   A plot plan showing the proposed location of the building upon the
property and to which the building is to be moved, provided the location is in
the village;
      (6)   The streets on, over or through which it is desired to move the
building; and
      (7)   Whether the building conforms to the zoning laws in the location to
which it is to be moved.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-2)
§ 95.177 INVESTIGATION.
   Upon the filing of the application, the Building Inspector will cause the
investigation of the building and a report on such will be prepared.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-3)
§ 95.178 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to move any building or structure which, in
the opinion of the Building Inspector:
      (1)   Is so constructed or in such condition as to be dangerous;
      (2)   Is infested with pests or unsanitary conditions;
      (3)   If it is a dwelling or habitation, is unfit for human habitation;
      (4)   Is so dilapidated, defective, unsightly or in such a condition of
deterioration or disrepair that its relocation at the proposed site would cause
appreciable harm to or be materially detrimental to the property or
improvements in the district within a radius of 1,000 feet from the proposed
site;
      (5)   If the proposed use is prohibited by the zoning laws of the
village;
      (6)   If the structure is of a type prohibited at the proposed location
by any ordinance of the village; or
      (7)   If the moving of the building or structure causes unreasonable
damage to the trees, plants and/or shrubs on and along the public streets.
   (B)   Provided, however, that if the condition of the building or structure,
in the judgment of the Building Inspector, admits of a practicable and
effective repair, the permit may be issued upon the terms and conditions as set
forth herein.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-4)
§ 95.179 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   When a house moving permit is granted, such terms and conditions as may be
deemed reasonable and proper may be imposed, including, but not limited to, the
public streets, or other public property in the village on, over or through
which the building or structure shall be moved, and the requirement of changes,
alterations, additions or repairs to be made to or upon the building or
structure, to the end that the relocation thereof will not be materially
detrimental or injurious to public safety or to public welfare or to the
property and improvements, or either, in the district to which it is to be
moved. Those terms and conditions shall be written upon the permit or appended
in writing thereto.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-5)
§ 95.180 ESTIMATE OF COSTS AND DEPOSIT.
   The applicant shall also deposit with the Village Clerk a cash deposit
sufficient to cover the cost to the village as estimated by the Public Works
Director, of trimming, moving, removing or replanting of trees or shrubs, and
of moving, removing or displacing all poles, signs or other structures,
supporting any wires, cables or other equipment belonging to the village or the
cutting, displacing or changing the location of any wire, cable or other
equipment upon the poles or structures belonging to the village.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-6)
§ 95.181 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Every person moving a building in the village shall file with the
Village Clerk a liability insurance policy issued by a solvent insurance
corporation holding a certificate of authority to do insurance business in the
state, which policy shall conform in all respects to the requirements of this
section.
   (B)   In lieu of filing the insurance policy herein referred to, a
certificate of insurance issued by an insurance corporation may be filed.
   (C)   The certificate must show that a policy meeting the requirements of
this section has been issued, and shall set forth the expiration date of the
policy.
   (D)   The liability policy required under this section shall insure the
person moving a building against loss from the liability imposed by law for
injury to, or death of, any person, or damage to any property arising out of
the moving of the building, to the amount or limit of $500,000 exclusive of
interest and costs, on account of injury to, or death of, any one person, and
subject to the same limit as respects injury to or death of one person, of
$1,000,000 exclusive of interest and costs, on account of moving any building
resulting in injury to or death of more than one person, and of $500,000 for
damage to property of others, resulting from moving of any one building.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-7)
§ 95.182 OWNER'S COMPLETION BOND.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a permit to move a building, the owner or
lessee of the property upon which the building is to be located shall file with
the Village Clerk a corporate surety bond, conditioned as follows: that all of
the work required to be done to complete the relocation, alteration and
reconstruction of the building pursuant to the conditions of the permit shall
be fully performed and completed within one year.
   (B)   The bond shall be in a principal amount equal to the estimated cost of
the work proposed to be done plus 10% thereof, and shall name the village as
obligee, and shall be in a form approved by the Village Attorney.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-8)
§ 95.183 CLEARANCE OF SITE AND SAFETY MEASURES REQUIRED.
   Prior to the issuance of a permit to move a building, the owner or lessee of
the property in the village from which the building is to be moved shall file
with the Village Clerk a bond conditioned as follows:
   (A)   Before any work is started on a building or structure, the permittee
or his or her authorized agent shall notify the appropriate utilities in order
that all gas, water and oil pipelines that are to be disconnected from the
building may be securely capped and sealed;
   (B)   Immediately after the moving of any building or structure, the
permittee or his or her authorized agent shall securely barricade all basement
excavations and other holes or openings;
   (C)   Within ten days after the moving of any building or structure, the
permittee or his or her authorized agent shall complete the following work:
      (1)   Securely close and seal any sanitary piping located on the
property, and abide by all existing state and federal environmental
regulations;
      (2)   Fill with dirt or sand any septic tanks or cesspools located on the
property, and abide by all existing state and federal environmental
regulations;
      (3)   In regard to foundations, remove all items or structures except for
structural concrete, brick or blocks, and fill any openings, excavations or
basements remaining on the land with dirt or sand to street level or the
natural level of the adjoining property, unless otherwise directed by the
village;
      (4)   Remove any buried underground tanks formerly used for storage of
flammable liquids; and
      (5)   Remove all refuse, debris and waste materials from the property. No
building materials or refuse, debris and other waste materials shall be buried
on the property.
   (D)   The bond required by this section shall be in an amount equal to the
cost to the work proposed to be done, as estimated by Building Inspector; and
   (E)   An extension of time for completion of the work required by this
section may be granted by the village, when, in the Building Inspector's
discretion, circumstances justify such an extension; but no extension shall
release any bond furnished pursuant to this section.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-9)
§ 95.184 INSPECTION FEE AND PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   An inspection fee in the sum of $50 shall be paid to the Village Clerk
upon filing of each application for a house moving permit.
   (B)   A permit fee in the sum of $500 shall be paid to the Village Clerk
upon the issuance of each house moving permit.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-10)
§ 95.185 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Building Inspector shall approve the issuance of a house moving permit
when all necessary requirements and conditions of this subchapter have been
complied with. It shall then be the duty of the Village Clerk to issue the
permit.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-11)
§ 95.186 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Building Inspector, at any time, for sufficient cause, may revoke or
suspend any permit granted under this subchapter.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-12)
§ 95.187 CONTROL AND SUPERVISION.
   (A)   Every building which is moved on, over or through any public street,
way or park in the village shall be under the control of the Village Public
Works Department, and every such building shall be moved in a careful manner,
and the work shall be prosecuted with diligence and to the satisfaction and
approval of the village.
   (B)   This section in no way relieves the person having charge of the moving
of any building of his or her obligation to furnish proper supervision.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-13)
§ 95.188 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Notice must be given by the person to whom the permit is issued, or his or
her representative, to both the Village Public Works Department and the Village
Police Department not less than seven days before the actual work of moving a
building or structure is to commence.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-14)
§ 95.189 DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE OR CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Whenever a default has occurred in the performance of any term or
condition of any permit, written notice thereof shall be given to the permittee
by the Building Inspector, the notice to state the work to be done, the
estimated cost thereof, and the period of time deemed to be reasonably
necessary to complete the work.
   (B)   After receipt of the notice, the permittee must, within the time
therein specified, either cause the work to be done or pay over to the Village
Clerk the estimated cost of doing the work, as set forth in the notice, plus
10% of the estimated cost.
   (C)   Upon receipt of notice from the Village Clerk that the permittee has
deposited the money, the Public Works Department shall cause the required work
to be performed and completed.
   (D)   If the permittee defaults, the village shall have the option, in lieu
of completing the work required, to demolish the building or structure and to
clear, clean and restore the site or sites.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-15)
§ 95.190 APPROVAL OF ROUTE.
   The streets over which any building or structure is to be moved must be
approved by the Public Works Department and the Chief of Police.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-16)
§ 95.191 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   No person owning or having charge of the moving of any building into, on,
over, through or from any public streets, ways or parks in the village, shall
permit the building to remain in any one location on any such street, way or
park for a period longer than 24 hours except by written permission obtained
from the Chief of Police, or to obstruct traffic on any railroad.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-17)
§ 95.192 LIGHTS AND BARRICADES.
   The person having charge of the moving of any structure shall maintain
proper lights and barricades whenever the structure is on any public street,
way or park during the hours of darkness.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-18)
§ 95.193 WIRES AND STRUCTURAL SUPPORTS.
   (A)   In the event that the moving of any building for which a permit shall
have been granted hereunder makes it necessary to move, remove or displace any
pole or other structure supporting the wires, cables or other equipment of any
public utility or of the village or to cut, displace or change the location of
any wire, cable or other equipment upon the pole or structure, the person to
whom the permit has been granted, or his or her authorized representative,
shall obtain permission in writing from the owner or owners of the pole,
structure or wires, cables or other equipment thereon, and shall notify the
owner or owners at least 48 hours prior to the time that the moving of the
building will necessitate the removal of the obstructions.
   (B)   The person to whom the permit is granted shall not at the expiration
of the time of notice or any time, cut, move or in any way disturb the public
utility or village property; and the work shall be done only by the authorized
workmen of the utility or the village, whichever is the owner. The person to
whom the permit is granted shall pay to the public utility, or to the village,
as the case may be, any and all costs or expenses for the removal,
rearrangement or replacement of any pole or structural support of wires, cable
or equipment thereon or of any damage to the property.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-19)
§ 95.194 TREES, PLANTS AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   In the event that the moving of any building for which a permit shall
have been granted hereunder makes it necessary to trim, move, remove or replant
any tree, plant or shrub belonging to or under the control of the village, the
person to whom the permit has been granted, or his or her authorized
representative, shall notify the Director of Public Works at least 48 hours
prior to the time that the moving of the building will necessitate the removal
of the obstructions.
   (B)   The person to whom the permit is granted shall not at the expiration
of the time of notice or at any time, trim, move, remove, replant or otherwise
disturb the trees, plants or shrubs; and the work shall be done only by the
authorized workmen of the village unless otherwise approved and so ordered by
the village.
   (C)   The person to whom the permit is granted shall pay to the village any
and all costs or expense for the trimming, moving, removing or replanting of
any trees, plants or shrubs or of any damage thereto.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-20)
§ 95.195 REPAIRS TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   In the event that the moving of any building for which a permit shall have
been granted hereunder causes damage to the public streets or other public
property, in addition to any other remedies the village may have, the village
may cause the damage to be repaired and the cost thereof shall be deducted from
the deposit required herein or the village may require the person to whom the
permit has been granted, or his or her authorized representative, upon written
notification from the village, to make all necessary repairs to the streets or
property; provided, however, that should the person to whom the permit has been
granted, and to whom the notice has been given, or his or her authorized
representative, fail to make the necessary repairs within the period of time
designated in the written notice, the Director of Public Works may cause the
necessary repairs to be made and the cost thereof deducted from the deposit
required herein.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-21)
§ 95.196 REFUNDING OF DEPOSITS.
   (A)   When the moving of any building for which a permit has been granted is
completed, and all damage to public streets or other public property has been
repaired to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works and all costs of
repairing damage or performing other work as provided herein, have been paid,
and the deposit as required by §
95.180 above, or a portion thereof then remaining unused under the provision of
this section shall be refunded upon the surrender of the deposit receipt
representing the money so deposited.
   (B)   Should the cost, however, of repairing damages and/or performing other
works as in this section provided, exceed the total amount of money deposited,
the person to whom the permit was granted shall be held liable for the amount
of damage and/or other costs which are in excess of the amount deposited, and
it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk, upon receipt of the request from the
Public Works Department, to collect the part of the claim which is in excess of
the deposit from the person to whom the permit was granted.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-22)
§ 95.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of house moving, razing
or shoring without first having secured a permit therefor. The permittee under
§§
95.175 through
95.196 must comply with all the foregoing ordinance provisions relating to work
being done, and must pay the permit fee required for moving buildings, and must
comply with all the foregoing ordinance provisions relating to the moving of
buildings. Any violation of §§
95.175 through
95.196 by any person shall be punishable as an ordinance violation as provided
in §
10.99.
(1994 Code, § 33-9-23) (Ord. 97-05, passed 8-5-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-80-2, 11-40-1, 11-30-4
CHAPTER 96: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Excessive sound reproducing devices
   
96.03   Noise prohibited
   
96.04   Sound amplification; motor vehicles
   
96.05   Exceptions
   
96.99   Violation; penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The term PERSON when used in this chapter, shall mean any individual,
corporation, partnership, firm, business, association, public or private
institution, group, agency, or any legal successor, representative, or agent of
the foregoing.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 96.02 EXCESSIVE SOUND REPRODUCING DEVICES.
   No person shall, after 9:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday evenings and
after 11:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday evenings, the Fourth of July, and New
Year's Eve, and until 9:00 a.m. the following day, operate, play, or use any
device or instrument that creates or amplifies exterior sound, including but
not limited to any loudspeaker, amplifier, musical instrument, radio, stereo,
juke box, public address system, bullhorn, or device that plays live or
recorded music, or to generate any exterior sound for the purposes of
communication or entertainment, that is louder than an average conversational
level at a distance of 75 feet or more, measured horizontally or vertically,
from the source of the sound.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 96.03 NOISE PROHIBITED.
   In addition to the provisions of §
96.02, it shall be unlawful, and is declared to be a nuisance, for any person
to cause, continue to cause, or allow the emission of, beyond the boundaries of
his or her property, any excessive sound or noise which disturbs the peace and
quiet of any neighborhood, or which unreasonably interferes with or causes
annoyance with the enjoyment of life, sleep, or with any lawful business or
activity.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 96.04 SOUND AMPLIFICATION; MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No driver of any motor vehicle within the village shall operate or permit
operation of any sound amplification system or any radio, stereo, or other
similar device, which can be heard outside the vehicle from 75 feet or more
when the vehicle and/or sound amplification system is being operated upon a
street or parking lot within the village, unless such system is being operated
to request assistance or warn of a hazardous situation.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 96.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The limitations imposed in these sections do not apply to emergency
vehicles, emergency signal devices, generators operated to provide emergency
electrical power, power lawn mowers and lawn maintenance equipment, lawn and
leaf blowers, and construction activities and equipment between the hours of 7:
00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. A request for a variance from the restrictions imposed by
the provisions of §§
96.02 and
96.03 for annual events such as faires, carnivals, or homecomings may be
granted by the Mayor. However, said request must be made in writing and
delivered to the Mayor at least 15 days in advance of such event.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 96.99 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who commits the acts prohibited herein shall be guilty of an
ordinance violation and shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99. Further, the Village Attorney may bring an action to enjoin any person
from violating this chapter and seek an order from the circuit court ordering
the violator to abate any violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 8-16-2016)
CHAPTER 97: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
97.01   Purpose and scope
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
97.04   Dispute resolution
   
97.05   Indemnification
   
97.06   Insurance
§ 97.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act ("Act").
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 18-08, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider,
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153
(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with Section VI.D.l.a.i through Section VI.D.l.a.v of the Nationwide
Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or
      (2)   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site, or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the village pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or where
such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State Historic
Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization,
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included
in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration. WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless
facilities.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cabte that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial,, or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 18-08, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 97.03 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division (C)(9) below regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject
to zoning review or approval if they are collocated:
      (1)   In rights-of-way in any zoning district; or
      (2)   Outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial
or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shad be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      (1)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the Village, together with the village's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act
of 1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application
as it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation compiles with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained in division (C) below, to the best of the
applicant's knowledge.
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows:
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th
day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the village's denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (c)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th
day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the village's denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   1.   The village shall deny an application which does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
            2.   If the village determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained in division (C) below require that the utility pole or
wireless support structure be replaced before the requested collocation,
approval shall be conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or
wireless support structure at the cost of the provider.
            3.   The village shall document the basis for a denial, including
the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
village denies an application.
            4.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
village and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application
fee. The village shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved, Failure
to resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the village's review period.
            5.   The applicant must notify the village in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application.
            6.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         (e)   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
village and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement,
provided by the village for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole
by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant
shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
      (3)   Completeness of application. 
         (a)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the village shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the village must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the village fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the village's permit
application form are submitted by the applicant to the village.
         (b)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village sends
the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
village; or
         (b)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay,
      (5)   Consolidated applications. 
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at the applicant's
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the
application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been provided or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment or that are denied. The Village may issue separate
permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application,
      (6)   Duration of permits.
         (a)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable village codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
         (b)   If the Act is repealed as provided in Section 90 therein,
renewals of permits shall be subject to the applicable village code provisions
or regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the village by personal
delivery at the village's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   (C)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
         (a)   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         (b)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency's communications equipment.
         (c)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCCs regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (d)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
         (e)   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in division (3)(d) above. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   (a)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution
or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole
or the electric supply zone of the pole.
         (b)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the village utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         (c)   For purposes of this division (4), the terms COMMUNICATIONS
SPACE, COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE, and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      (6)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a village
ordinance, written policy adopted by the village, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      (7)   Alternate placements.
         (a)   Except as provided in this division (C), a wireless provider
shall not be required to collocation small wireless facilities on any specific
utility pole, or category of utility poles, or be required to collocate
multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an
application for the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a
new utility pole, the village may propose that the small wireless facility be
collocated on-an existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure
within 100 feet of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept
if it has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the village,
the applicant shall provide written certification describing the property
rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does
not satisfy the criteria in this division (7).
      (8)   Height limitations. 
         (a)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
         (b)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            1.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village, provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way
within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for such facility; or
            2.   Forty-five feet above ground level.
      (9)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance or special use permit in conformance with
procedures, terms and conditions set forth in the various provisions of
Chapter 155 (Zoning) of the Village of South Roxana Code of Ordinances,
particularly, but not limited to, §§
155.165 and
155.166, as now or hereafter amended.
      (10)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the village and
a private property owner that concern design or construction standards
applicable to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-
of-way.
      (11)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      (12)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests
to install such new utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do
not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
      (13)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the village and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the village grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (D)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
      (1)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application
to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
      (2)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The village shall not require an application, approval or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with division (B)(1) above; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   (E)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately-owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   (a)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under the
Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-7201, Metra Commuter Rail or
any other public commuter rail service, or an electric utility as defined in
the Public Utilities Act, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-102, without the consent of
the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or electric utility. The
provisions of this chapter do not apply to an electric or gas public utility or
such utility's wireless facilities if the facilities are being used, developed
and maintained consistent with the provisions of the Public Utilities Act, ILCS
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-108.5(I).
         (b)   For the purposes of this subsection, PUBLIC UTILITY has the
meaning given to that term in the Public Utilities Act, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, §
3-105. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from
any requirement:
            1.   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service; or
            2.   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain,
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this chapter.
   (F)   Pre-existing agreements.
      (1)   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility
poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the village's utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the village before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
      (2)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the village
on the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
village makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying
the village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing
agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for
the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the
village's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the village
before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option
under this division (F).
   (G)   Annual recurring rate. 
      (1)   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring
rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located
in a right-of-way that equals:
         (a)   $200 per year; or
         (b)   The actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on the village utility pole.
      (2)   If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and
direct costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first
annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (H)   Abandonment.
      (1)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of
written notice from the village notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village if
it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 18-08, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 97.04 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of Madison County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole, with rates to
be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 18-08, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 97.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the village harmless against
any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
village improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless
provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the
village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any
claims that they may have against the village with respect to consequential,
incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the theory of
liability.
(Ord. 18-08, passed 7-17-2018)
§ 97.06 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the village. A wireless provider
that self-Insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to
comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this
section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the
village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure
the insurance coverage limits required by the village.
(Ord. 18-08, passed 7-17-2018)
CHAPTER 98: SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS
Section
   
98.01   Purpose
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Permit requirements
   
98.04   Application procedures
   
98.05   Fees
   
98.06   Conditions for approval
   
98.07   Permit issuance and conditions
   
98.08   Revocation of permit
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish guidelines and requirements for
obtaining permits for special events held within the Village of South Roxana.
This chapter aims to ensure the safety, health, and welfare of residents and
visitors, and to minimize disruption to the community.
(Ord. 24-06, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERMITTEE. The individual or organization that applies for and receives a
special event permit.
   PRIVATE GATHERINGS. Private gatherings held at a personal residence for
family and friends shall not be considered special events under this ordinance,
provided that these gatherings are not fundraisers, promotional events, or any
other event where the primary purpose is to solicit funds or donations from
attendees.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any property owned or controlled by the village, including
streets, parks, and public buildings.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any organized public or private gathering, including but not
limited to festivals, parades, concerts, fairs, and sporting events, expected
to attract a crowd of 50 or more people. A special event shall not include
activities conducted on a regular basis by a licensed business in the village
on its own property, or a special event conducted by a school organization,
such as an athletic event.
(Ord. 24-06, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 98.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person or organization shall conduct a special event within the
Village of South Roxana without first obtaining a special event permit from the
Village Clerk's office. Music or other noise from the special event shall not
become a nuisance to the public, especially after 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   Private gatherings held at a personal residence for family and friends
are exempt from the requirement to obtain a special event permit, as long as
these gatherings do not qualify as fundraisers, promotional events, or any
similar activity.
   (C)   Exemption for village recreation center rentals. Events held within
the Village Recreation Center do not require a special event permit, provided
that they remain entirely within the Recreation Center's premises and adhere to
all applicable rules and regulations.
(Ord. 24-06, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 98.04 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application submission. Applications for special event permits must be
submitted to the Village Clerk at least 60 days prior to the special event
date. The application must be completed in full, providing detailed information
about the special event, including date, time, location, expected attendance,
and planned activities.
   (B)   Supporting documents. The application must include a site plan,
insurance documentation, and any necessary permits from other agencies. A
safety plan detailing emergency procedures and crowd control measures must be
submitted.
   (C)   Review process. The Village Clerk will review the application and may
consult with other relevant departments, such as the Police and Fire
Departments, to assess the potential impact of the special event. Additional
information or modifications may be requested during the review process.
(Ord. 24-06, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 98.05 FEES.
   (A)   Application fee. A non-refundable application fee of $100 must
accompany each application.
   (B)   Additional fees. Fees for additional public services, including
police, fire, and sanitation, will be determined based on the specific needs of
the special event. The Chief of Police or Village Administrator will assess the
required manpower and associated costs, if any, which must be paid by the
permittee no later than 14 days prior to the special event.
(Ord. 24-06, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 98.06 CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL.
   A special event permit may not be issued if the following conditions are not
met:
   (A)   Compliance with laws. The special event complies with all local,
state, and federal laws.
   (B)   Public safety. The special event does not pose a threat to public
safety or welfare.
   (C)   Minimal disruption. The special event plan shall minimize disruption
to traffic, residents, and businesses.
   (D)   Adequate services. There are sufficient public services, including
police and fire protection, to support the special event.
   (E)   Insurance. The permittee provides proof of adequate liability
insurance coverage as determined by the village. The liability insurance shall
provide coverage of at least $300,000 per person/$1,000,000 aggregate and shall
name the Village of South Roxana as an additional insured. A certificate of
insurance verifying minimum coverage must be supplied to the Village Clerk at
least 14 days prior to the event.
   (F)   Alcohol. If any alcohol shall be served or available at the special
event, a separate special event alcohol license must be obtained from the
village unless the premises are already covered by a liquor license issued by
the village.
   (G)   Notice. The applicant or organizers of the special event shall be
required to give notice to all residences within 500 feet of the area to hold
the special event at least 14 days prior to the event. The notice shall include
the date, anticipated time of the event, the nature of the event and contact
information for the sponsor of the event. Proof of notification must be
submitted to the Village Clerk's office not less than ten days prior to the
special event.
   (H)   Contacts. The applicant shall identify a person, including his or her
cell phone number, who shall be responsible, in charge and on site during the
special event. In addition, the applicant must supply the names, cell phone
numbers and emails of not less than two other persons who have authority over
the special event who may be contacted in the event of questions before the
event or during the special event.
(Ord. 24-06, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 98.07 PERMIT ISSUANCE AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Issuance. Upon approval, the Mayor shall issue a special event permit
specifying the terms and conditions of the special event. The permit must be
prominently displayed at the special event site.
   (B)   Conditions. The village may impose additional conditions on the permit
to ensure public safety and compliance with regulations, including limitations
on noise levels, alcohol sales, parking requirements, and hours of operation.
   (C)   Prepayment of costs. The permittee must pay all assessed costs for all
anticipated public services, as determined by the Chief of Police or Village
Administrator, no later than 14 days prior to the special event. Such fees may
include extra police services, fire services, sanitation services, and expenses
incurred by public works concerning closing and opening of streets or public
property.
(Ord. 24-06, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 98.08 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Mayor, Police Chief, or their authorized designee is authorized to
revoke a special event permit or to terminate a special event in progress if
the permittee fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit, or
if the special event poses a threat to public safety.
(Ord. 24-06, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person conducting or sponsoring a special event in the village without
obtaining the proper permit as required by this chapter and failing to comply
with the terms and conditions of the permit may be charged with a violation of
the village code. Such a violation may also be grounds for her or the denial of
future special event permits.
(Ord. 24-06, passed 7-2-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   RAFFLES
      
113.   ADULT BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.001   Applications
   
110.002   Persons subject to license
   
110.003   Term and form of license
   
110.004   Investigations
   
110.005   Fees
   
110.006   Termination of license
   
110.007   Building and premises
   
110.008   Change of location
   
110.009   Location
   
110.010   Nuisances prohibited
   
110.011   Working conditions
   
110.012   Inspections
   
110.013   Suspension, revocation of license or permit
   
110.014   Appeal
   
110.015   License to be posted
   
110.016   Business vehicle sticker
   
110.017   Junk dealers
   
110.018   Sale and possession of tobacco
Solicitors
   
110.030   Definitions
   
110.031   Certificate of registration required
   
110.032   Permit application process
   
110.033   Issuance and revocation of certificate
   
110.034   Policy on soliciting
   
110.035   Notice regulating soliciting
   
110.036   Duty of solicitors
   
110.037   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
110.038   Time limit on soliciting
   
110.039   Solicitations on public highway
   
110.040   Fees
Peddlers
   
110.055   License required
   
110.056   Definition
   
110.057   Applications
   
110.058   Investigation of applicants
   
110.059   Hours
   
110.060   Fraud
   
110.061   Photographs
   
110.062   Unwanted peddling
   
110.063   Peddlers as nuisance
   
110.064   Duty of police to abate
   
110.065   Peddlers not nuisance
   
110.066   Fees
Pool Tables
   
110.080   License required
   
110.081   Prohibited licensees
   
110.082   License fee
   
110.083   Non-assignability of license
   
110.084   Closing hours
   
110.085   Gambling prohibited
   
110.086   Minors
Coin-Operated Machines
   
110.100   Definitions
   
110.101   License required
   
110.102   Application
   
110.103   Prohibited licensees
   
110.104   Fees
   
110.105   Non-assignability of license
   
110.106   Placement; gambling prohibited
   
110.107   Closing hours
   
110.108   Minors
Fees
   
110.135   Fees established
 
   
110.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Business license forms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.001 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this chapter
shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk in the absence of provision to
the contrary.
   (B)   Each application shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The permit or license desired;
      (3)   The location to be used, if any;
      (4)   The time covered; and
      (5)   The fee to be paid.
   (C)   Each application shall also contain the number of the certificates of
registration required under the Retailer's Occupation Tax Act, being ILCS Ch.
35, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq., Service Occupation Tax Act, being ILCS Ch. 35, Act
115, §§ 1 et seq., and/or Use Tax Act, being ILCS Ch. 35, Act 105, §§ 1 et
seq., if applicable.
   (D)   Each application shall contain additional information as may be needed
for the proper guidance of the municipal officials in the issuing of the
license or permit applied for.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 110.002 PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever, in this chapter or in any municipal ordinance, a license or permit
is required for the maintenance, operation or conduct of any business or
establishment, or for doing business or engaging in any activity or occupation,
any person, firm or corporation shall be subject to the requirement if by
himself or herself or itself or through an agent, employee or partner, he or
she or it is held forth as being engaged in the business, activity or
occupation, or if he or she or it solicits patronage therefor actively or
passively; or if he or she or it performs or attempts to perform any part of
the business, activity or occupation in this municipality.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 110.003 TERM AND FORM OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted for a longer term than one year, and all
licenses, unless otherwise provided by ordinance, shall expire on the last day
of April next following their issue. Every license shall be signed by the Mayor
and attested by the Village Clerk under the corporate seal, and no license
shall be valid until signed and countersigned as aforesaid, nor shall any
person be deemed to be licensed until the same shall have been issued to him or
her in due form.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 110.004 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where an
investigation or inspection is required by ordinance before the issuance of the
permit or license, or where an inspection or investigation shall be deemed
reasonably necessary or appropriate, the Village Clerk, within 48 hours, shall
refer the application to the appropriate official(s) for the making of the
investigation or inspection.
   (B)   The official(s) to whom the application has been referred shall make a
report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days after receiving the
application or a copy thereof.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall make or cause to be made an inspection
regarding the permits and licenses as relate to the care and handling of food,
the prevention of nuisances and the spread of disease, and the protection of
health. The Zoning Administrator, if any, shall make or cause to be made any
inspections which relate to compliance with the Zoning Code, if any, and other
related regulations. All other investigations, except where otherwise provided
shall be made by the Chief of Police or by some other officer designated by the
Mayor.
   (D)   Upon receipt of all related investigative reports, the Village Clerk
shall forward the reports, together with the application, to the Mayor for
evaluation and determination.
   (E)   If it shall appear to the corporate authorities that the matters and
circumstances relating to an application require further information before a
proper determination can be made, the application shall be returned to the
Village Clerk for the inclusion of additional information as may be specified
necessary and appropriate.
   (F)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory,
they may disapprove the application, indicating the reasons therefor.
Thereupon, the Village Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the applicant
that his or her application is disapproved and that no license or permit will
be issued.
   (G)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the application is satisfactory, they shall approve the
application. Thereupon, the Village Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify
the applicant that his or her application is approved and the license or permit
may be issued.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 110.005 FEES.
   (A)   In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the Village Clerk in the amounts prescribed by the corporate
authorities.
   (B)   When an applicant has not engaged in the business or activity until
after the expiration of the current license year, the license fee shall be
prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof
during which the business or activity has been or will be conducted.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided, all license and permit fees shall become
a part of the corporate fund. In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of
any license or permit fee, or part thereof by reason of death or departure of
the licensee or permittee; nor shall any rebate or refund be made by reason of
non-use of the license or discontinuance of the operation or conduct of the
licensed establishment, business or activity.
   (D)   Any person applying for an annual license when the remaining period in
the fiscal year is six months or less is required to pay only one-half of the
annual license fee with no discount.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 110.006 TERMINATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall be operative and the license year for this
municipality shall commence on May 1 of each year and shall terminate on the
last day of April of the following year, where no provision to the contrary is
made.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall notify all licensees of this municipality of
the time of expiration of the license held by the licensee (if an annual),
three weeks prior to the date of expiration. Provided, however, that a failure
to make a notification or the failure of the licensee to receive it shall not
excuse the licensee from the obligation to obtain a new license or a renewal
thereof, nor shall it be a defense in an action based upon operation without a
license.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-6)
§ 110.007 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
shall be issued for any purpose or activity, if the premises and building to be
used for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of this municipality and the state. No license or permit shall be
issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any act which would
involve a violation of the Zoning Code of this municipality, if any.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-7)
§ 110.008 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or the location of any
permitted act may be changed provided that ten-days' notice thereof is given to
the Village Clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided,
however, that all applicable ordinances and regulations of the municipality
shall be complied with.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-8)
§ 110.009 LOCATION.
   (A)   No license for the operation of a business or establishment in this
municipality shall be construed to permit the operation of a licensed business
or establishment in more than one location in this municipality; a separate
license shall be required for each location of a licensed establishment.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the existence of a single location
shall be evidence by the fact that all buildings containing the principal or
accessory uses shall be connected or shall be located on the same lot or
parcel, shall be operated and managed by the same person or owner, and shall be
an establishment with the same classification.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-9)
§ 110.010 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Generally. No business or establishment, whether or not licensed,
shall be so conducted or operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact, and no
building, vehicle or structure, yard, lot, premises or part thereof shall be
used, kept, maintained or operated in connection with any business or
establishment so as to occasion any nuisance, or so as to be dangerous to life
or detrimental to health.
   (B)   Unsafe or unhealthful business. No building or structure utilized,
constructed or maintained in connection with any business or occupation shall
evidence an unsanitary, unsafe or dangerous condition. No substance, matter or
thing of any kind whatever which would be dangerous or detrimental to health,
shall be allowed to exist in connection with any business or occupation, or be
used in any work or labor performed in this municipality.
   (C)   Refuse disposal.
      (1)   Refuse containers. The standard refuse container required by this
chapter shall be a receptacle of not less than 20-gallons', nor more than 32-
gallons' capacity, of impervious material and sturdy construction with a tight-
fitting cover, and equipped with handles properly placed to facilitate
handling.
      (2)   Duty to provide refuse containers. The occupant of every building,
structure or premises used or maintained in connection with any business or
occupation shall provide and maintain in good condition and repair a sufficient
number of refuse containers for the temporary storage of all refuse
accumulating between collections. All refuse which is placed for collection
service outside any building or structure must be kept in standard refuse
containers.
      (3)   Refuse removal. It shall be the duty of the occupant of every
building, structure or premises used or maintained in connection with any
business or occupation to cause to be removed, at his or her own cost and
expense, at least once each week, all refuse produced therein.
      (4)   Removal of restaurant garbage. Every person owning or controlling
any hotel, restaurant, café or retail food establishment where more than 32
gallons of refuse is normally produced weekly shall cause all garbage to be
placed in sanitary refuse containers and shall cause all substances deposited
in the containers to be removed daily from his or her premises and to be
disposed of at his or her own expense.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-10)
§ 110.011 WORKING CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Health requirements. No owner, lessee, manager or superintendent of
any store, factory, workshop or other place where persons are employed shall
cause or permit the place or any room or part thereof, to be overcrowded or
inadequate or faulty in respect to light, ventilation, heat or cleanliness.
   (B)   Sanitation. All such places of employment shall be kept in a clean
condition, free from effluvia of a sewer, drain, privy, stable or other
nuisance; also as far as practicable, the premises shall be free from all
gases, vapors, dust or other impurities generated by manufacturing processes or
otherwise which are injurious to health. Sufficient washroom facilities for
male and female employees shall be provided and the facilities shall be
properly ventilated.
   (C)   Heat required.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every person owning or controlling the
heating plant which furnishes heat to any factory or workshop to maintain a
temperature within the factory or workshop of not less than 62°F, without the
undue restriction of ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary
conditions therein; provided, however, that this requirement shall not apply to
any factory or workshop where the business conducted therein is of such a
nature that a higher or lower temperature than 62°F is necessary or expedient
for the work or manufacturing process of the business.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling the
heating plant which furnishes heat to any office, store or other place of
employment to maintain a temperature therein of not less than 62°F, without the
undue restriction of ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary
conditions therein, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. from October 1
of each year to June 1 of the succeeding year, Sundays and legal holidays
excepted.
   (D)   Inspection. The Chief of Police and the Zoning Administrator, if any
shall visit or cause to be visited all places of employment in this
municipality as often as they shall deem necessary to assure compliance with
the provisions of this section, and to have such arrangements made as may be
deemed necessary for the health and safety of the employees.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-11)
§ 110.012 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the provisions
of any ordinance or regulation of this municipality, or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the
premises to admit thereto for the purpose of making the inspection, any officer
or employee of this municipality who is duly authorized to make the inspection
at any reasonable time that the admission or entry is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or
regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any duly authorized
officer or employee of this municipality requesting the same, sufficient
samples of the material or commodity for analysis upon official request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may
revoke the license of any owner or operator of a licensed business in this
municipality who refuses to permit any duly authorized officer or employee to
make the inspection or to take adequate sample of the commodity, or who
interferes with the officer or employee while in the performance of his or her
duties; provided, however, that no license shall be subject to revocation for
the cause unless the officer or employee has been refused permission to enter
upon the premises in the name of this municipality after first having presented
a warrant authorizing the entry.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-12)
§ 110.013 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   Nuisance. When the conduct of operation of any business or
establishment, whether or not licensed, shall constitute a nuisance in fact and
a clear and present danger to the public health, safety or general welfare, the
Mayor shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the
closing of the premises, and the suspension of any license or permit for a
period not to exceed ten days.
   (B)   Hearing. Within eight days after he or she has so acted, the Mayor
shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the license
or permit should be revoked.
   (C)   Revocation.
      (1)   Licenses and permits issued under the ordinances of this
municipality, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the Mayor after
notice and hearing as provided in divisions (D) and (E) below for any of the
following causes:
         (a)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
         (b)   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance
provisions relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license
or permit, or the premises occupied;
         (c)   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
         (d)   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to this municipality; and/or
         (e)   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling, or any interference
with a duly authorized officer or employee in the performance of his or her
duties in making inspections, as provided in §
110.012 above.
      (2)   The revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and
imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of other
applicable ordinances of this municipality.
   (D)   Hearing notice. Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of the hearing. The notice shall be sent by
certified mail (return receipt requested) to the licensee or permittee at his
or her last known address at least five days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
   (E)   Counsel. At the hearing, the Village Attorney shall present the
complaint and shall represent this municipality. The licensee or permittee
shall be permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and
cross-examine witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render the decision.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-13)
§ 110.014 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Mayor in regard to the
denial of an application for a business license, as provided in §
110.004 above, or in connection with the revocation of a license or permit, as
provided in §
110.013 above, shall have the right to appeal to the municipality.
   (B)   The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Village Clerk within ten
days after notice of a denial of an application or a revocation of a license or
permit, a written statement under oath, setting forth specifically the grounds
for appeal.
   (C)   The municipality shall thereupon set the time and place for a hearing
on the appeal and notice of the hearing shall be given to the applicant or
licensee or permittee in the same manner as provided in §
110.013 above. The decision of the municipality on the appeal shall be final.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-14)
§ 110.015 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   It shall be the duty of every person conducting a licensed business in this
municipality to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the
premises used for the business at all times.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-15) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.016 BUSINESS VEHICLE STICKER.
   Whenever the number of vehicles used is the basis in whole or in part for a
license fee, the Village Clerk shall furnish the licensee with a tag or sticker
for each vehicle covered by the license and the tag or sticker shall be posted
or affixed in a conspicuous place on each vehicle.
(1994 Code, § 7-1-16)
§ 110.017 JUNK DEALERS.
   The legal operation of junk yards and junk dealers in the village is hereby
abolished.
(Ord. 00-22, passed 11-21-2000) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.018 SALE AND POSSESSION OF TOBACCO.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to possess, or for
anyone to sell, buy for, or furnish any substance containing tobacco leaf,
including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, snuff, smoking tobacco,
smokeless tobacco, e-cigarettes and vaping products, including Juul,
alternative nicotine products, and e-liquids and solutions, regardless of
whether they contain nicotine in any of its forms, to any person under 21 years
of age.
(Ord. 00-20, passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 20-2, passed 1-7-2020)  Penalty, see §
110.999
SOLICITORS
§ 110.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Includes any person who has obtained a valid
certificate of registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is
in the possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in
soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Includes every separate living unit occupied for residential
purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of building or
structure.
   SOLICITING. Includes any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; and/or
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or non-profit
association, organization, corporation or project.
(1994 Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 110.031 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit requirement.
      (1)   No person or entity shall engage in door-to-door solicitation
within the Village of South Roxana without first obtaining a certificate of
registration (solicitor's permit) from the Village Clerk.
      (2)   Each individual solicitor must apply separately and be approved
before soliciting. Companies or organizations cannot obtain a single permit
covering multiple solicitors.
      (3)   Exceptions:
         (a)   Charitable and nonprofit organizations that have maintained a
presence in the village for at least six months.
         (b)   Political canvassers, religious groups, and other forms of
noncommercial solicitation protected under the First Amendment.
   (B)   Enforcement authority.
      (1)   The Village Clerk shall issue solicitor permits after the
completion of a background check by the Chief of Police.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall be responsible for enforcing this
section, including responding to complaints of unlicensed solicitation.
   (C)   Identification requirement while soliciting.
      (1)   All solicitors must carry a valid state-issued identification card
(driver's license or state ID) and their village-issued permit while
soliciting.
      (2)   Upon request by a resident or law enforcement officer, the
solicitor must present both their state-issued ID and village permit.
   (D)   Penalties for unlicensed solicitation.
      (1)   Soliciting without a permit: $500 fine per violation.
      (2)   Failure to carry a permit or valid state-issued ID: $250 fine per
violation.
      (3)   Multiple violations: Immediate permit revocation and a ban from
obtaining future permits for up to two years.
(1994 Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 25-11, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 110.032 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Application submission. All solicitor permit applications must be
submitted to the Village Clerk, who shall process applications and forward them
to the Chief of Police for a background investigation.
   (B)   Grounds for denial of a permit. The Village Clerk shall deny a
solicitor's permit if the background check by the Chief of Police reveals that
the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a felony offense within the past ten years.
      (2)   Has been convicted of fraud, theft, or a crime involving dishonesty
within the past ten years.
      (3)   Has been convicted of a violent crime against a person within the
past five years, including assault, battery, domestic violence, harassment, or
stalking.
      (4)   Has been convicted of a sexual offense at any time.
      (5)   Has been convicted of a solicitation-related crime.
      (6)   Is a registered sex offender.
      (7)   Has an outstanding arrest warrant.
      (8)   Has provided false or misleading information on the application.
      (9)   Has revoked a previous solicitor's permit in the past three years.
   (C)   Appeal process.
      (1)   If a permit is denied, the applicant shall receive a notice stating
the reason for the denial.
      (2)   The applicant may appeal the denial to the Village Board of
Trustees within 14 days of receiving notice.
      (3)   The Village Board's decision shall be final.
   (D)   Required information. Each individual applicant must provide:
      (1)   Full legal name, current address, and phone number.
      (2)   Date of birth (DOB).
      (3)   Driver's license or state ID Number.
      (4)   Business, employer, or organization name and address.
      (5)   Description of goods or services being solicited.
      (6)   Length of time solicitation will occur.
      (7)   Disclosure of felony convictions or solicitation-related offenses.
   (E)   Company applications and multiple solicitors.
      (1)   If a business or organization seeks to register multiple
solicitors, each individual solicitor must submit a separate application.
      (2)   The company must provide a list of all solicitors working under
their permit and update the Village Clerk if new solicitors are added.
      (3)   Any solicitor operating without an individual permit is subject to
immediate citation and removal from the village.
   (F)   Background investigation and approval.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall conduct a criminal background check
within ten business days.
      (2)   If approved, the Village Clerk shall issue the solicitor's permit.
      (3)   If denied, the applicant shall receive written notice explaining
the reason for the denial.
   (G)   Permit duration and fees.
      (1)   All solicitor permits shall be valid for a maximum of seven days
from the date of issuance.
      (2)   Permit fee:
         (a)   One hundred dollars per individual solicitor for seven days.
         (b)   Two hundred fifty dollars base company registration fee for
businesses registering multiple solicitors (each individual solicitor must
still apply separately and pay their own $100 fee).
      (3)   Permit renewals.
         (a)   Renewals require a new application and background check.
         (b)   The same fees apply for each renewal.
(1994 Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 25-11, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 110.033 ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application and all
information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the
applicant does not possess the qualifications for the certificate as herein
required, and that the issuance of a certificate of registration to the
applicant would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Endorsement shall be made by the Chief of Police upon the application
of the denial of the application. When the applicant is found to be fully
qualified, the certificate of registration shall be issued forthwith.
   (C)   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by
the Chief of Police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a
violation of any provision of this subchapter, or has made a false material
statement in the application or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance
of a certificate of registration under the terms of this subchapter.
   (D)   Immediately upon the revocation, written notice thereof shall be given
by the Chief of Police to the holder of the certificate in person, or by
certified U.S. Mail, addressed to his or her residence address set forth in the
application.
   (E)   Immediately upon the giving of the notice, the certificate of
registration shall become null and void. The certificate of registration shall
state the expiration date thereof.
(1994 Code, § 7-2-4)
§ 110.034 POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is declared to be the policy of this municipality that the occupant or
occupants of the residences in this municipality shall make the determination
of whether solicitors shall be or shall not be invited to his or her respective
residences.
(1994 Code, § 7-2-5)
§ 110.035 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by
the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this subchapter shall
comply with the following directions.
   (A)   Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to
solicitors, or the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence shall
be given in the following manner.
   (B)   A weather-proof card, approximately three inches by four inches in
size shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
"ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED"
OR
"NO SOLICITORS INVITED"
   (C)   The letters shall be at least one-third-inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting same, at the cost thereof.
   (D)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(1994 Code, § 7-2-6)
§ 110.036 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It is the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in the
municipality upon which a residence as herein defined is located, to first
examine the notice provided for in §
110.035 above if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on
the notice. If the notice states "ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED," then the
solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of registration as herein provided
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises; and if the notice
states "NO SOLICITORS INVITED," then the solicitor, whether registered or not
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(1994 Code, § 7-2-7)
§ 110.037 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   "No knock" registry.
      (1)   The Village Clerk shall maintain a "no knock" registry listing
residential addresses where soliciting is prohibited.
      (2)   Residents may submit a request to be added to the list. The list
shall include addresses only (no names or personal identifying information).
      (3)   All registered solicitors must obtain and comply with the "no
knock" registry upon receiving their permit.
   (B)   Prohibited solicitation at no knock addresses.
      (1)   Any solicitor who violates the "no knock" registry shall be fined
$500 per violation.
      (2)   A second violation shall result in immediate revocation of the
permit and a two-year ban on obtaining future permits.
   (C)   Prohibited conduct at any residence.
      (1)   Solicitors must leave immediately if requested by a resident.
      (2)   Failure to comply may result in criminal trespassing charges.
(1994 Code, § 7-2-8) (Ord. 25-11, passed 5-6-2025) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.038 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this subchapter or not, to go upon any
premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located
thereon, or rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner
calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of the residence for the
purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in
soliciting as herein defined, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 4:00 p.m. of any
weekday or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(1994 Code, § 7-2-9) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.039 SOLICITATIONS ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   Charitable organizations shall be allowed to solicit upon public highways
under the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   The charitable organization must be one that is registered with the
Attorney General for the state as a charitable organization as provided by "An
Act to regulate solicitation and collection of funds for charitable purposes,
providing for violations thereof, and making an appropriation therefor,"
approved July 26, 1963, as amended;
   (B)   Solicit only at intersections where all traffic from all directions is
required to come to a full stop;
   (C)   Be engaged in a state-wide fund raising activity;
   (D)   Be liable for any injury to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent; and
   (E)   Any person so engaged in the solicitation shall be at least 16 years
of age and shall wear a high visibility vest.
(1994 Code, § 7-2-10)
§ 110.040 FEES.
   Upon making an application for a certificate of registration, the applicant
shall pay a license fee, which shall be as follows:
   (A)   Per day: $25 per person; and
   (B)   Per year: $100 per person.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-5-2) (1994 Code, § 7-2-11) (Ord. 03-03, passed 3-4-
2003)
PEDDLERS
§ 110.055 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of hawker or
peddler of any merchandise, article or thing, without having first secured a
license therefor.
(1994 Code, § 7-3-1) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.056 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLE.
      (1)   The selling, bartering or exchanging or the offering for sale,
barter or exchange of any tangible personal property upon or along the streets,
highways or public places of this municipality or from house to house, whether
at one place thereon or from place to place, from any wagon, truck, pushcart or
other vehicle or from movable receptacles of any kind, but shall not include
the delivery of any item previously ordered, or the sale of items along
delivery routes where the purchaser has previously requested the seller to stop
and exhibit his or her items.
      (2)   Nor shall PEDDLE be taken to include the solicitation of orders by
sample where the goods are not delivered at the time the order is taken.
(1994 Code, § 7-3-2)
§ 110.057 APPLICATIONS.
   A person desiring a license may obtain the same by making application with
the Village Clerk and providing the following information.
   (A)   Name and physical description of applicant;
   (B)   Permanent home and address and local address if operating from such an
address;
   (C)   A brief description of the business and of the goods to be sold;
   (D)   Name and address of the employer, if any;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   Evidence that the agent is acting on behalf of the corporation he or
she represents;
   (G)   Statement of the applicant's criminal record other than a traffic
record; and
   (H)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on business
immediately preceding the date of application and the address from which the
business was conducted in those municipalities.
(1994 Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 110.058 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of each application, it shall be referred to the Chief of
Police, who shall investigate the business and criminal background of the
applicant.
   (B)   If the facts show the applicant unfit to receive the license, then it
shall be denied.
(1994 Code, § 7-3-4)
§ 110.059 HOURS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this subchapter or not, to engage in peddling
as herein defined, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 4:00 p.m. of any weekday, or at
any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(1994 Code, § 7-3-5)
§ 110.060 FRAUD.
   No licensed peddler shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or herself or through an employee
while acting as a peddler in this municipality, or shall barter, sell or peddle
any goods or merchandise or wares other than those specified in his or her
application for a license.
(1994 Code, § 7-3-6)
§ 110.061 PHOTOGRAPHS.
   Two photographs of the applicant and such of its employees, to be provided
upon approval of application, as will be used in the peddling or merchandising,
taken within 60 days immediately prior to the filing of the application which
pictures shall be two inches by two inches showing the head and shoulders of
the applicant or his or her agents and/or employees in a clear and
distinguishing manner.
(1994 Code, § 7-3-7)
§ 110.062 UNWANTED PEDDLING.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter, nor the issuance of any license
hereunder shall entitle the licensee to go in or upon any private residence for
the purpose of peddling if the licensee, his or her agents or employees are
directed to depart from the private residence by the owner or person in charge
thereof.
(1994 Code, § 7-3-8)
§ 110.063 PEDDLERS AS NUISANCE.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences, business
establishments or offices in the village by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers,
itinerant merchants and transient vendors of merchandise, not having been
requested or invited to do so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of
the private residences, business establishments or offices for the purpose of
disposing of and/or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and punishable as a violation of this subchapter.
(1994 Code, § 7-3-9)
§ 110.064 DUTY OF POLICE TO ABATE.
   The Police Department of the village is hereby required and directed to
suppress the same, and to abate any such nuisance as described in §
110.063 above.
(1994 Code, § 7-3-10)
§ 110.065 PEDDLERS NOT NUISANCE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to persons employed or
representing an established merchant, business, firm or corporation located and
regularly doing business in the village or to farmers selling any food items
raised or produced by themselves, and/or to permanently established residents
who are voters in the village or anyone duly licensed.
(1994 Code, § 7-3-11)
§ 110.066 FEES.
   The license fees per person to be charged for licenses to peddle in the
village, each payable in advance, are hereby fixed and established as follows:
   (A)   Per day: $25; and
   (B)   Per year: $100.
(1994 Code, § 7-3-12) (Ord. 03-04, passed 3-4-2003)
POOL TABLES
§ 110.080 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate, maintain or conduct a billiard, pool or
bagatelle or pigeonhole table open to the public, including members of any
organized social or fraternal club or organization without having first
obtained a license therefor as is herein required.
   (B)   Application for license shall be verified by oath or affidavit, and
contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual and in the case of a co-partnership, of the persons entitled to
share in the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and addresses
of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the stock of
the corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominees, the name and
address of the person(s);
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth; or if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The address of the place where the applicant proposes to operate;
      (4)   A statement whether the applicant has made a similar application
for similar license on premises other than those described in the application,
and the disposition of the application; and
      (5)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a
felony, and is not disqualified to receive the license under this section.
(1994 Code, § 7-5-1) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.081 PROHIBITED LICENSEES.
   No license under this section shall be issued to:
   (A)   Any person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (B)   Any person who does not pass a criminal background check;
   (C)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
state; or of being the keeper of a house of ill fame; or of pandering or other
crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality;
   (D)   Any person whose license issued under this subchapter has been revoked
for cause;
   (E)   Any partnership, unless all of the members of the partnership are
qualified to obtain the license;
   (F)   Any corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of the corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license for any reason
other than citizenship or residence within the village;
   (G)   Any person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless the manager or agent is of legal age and possesses the same
qualifications required of the licensee; and
   (H)   Any person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought, or does not have a lease therefor for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
(1994 Code, § 7-5-2)
§ 110.082 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee for any license shall be $100 per year.
   (A)   No portion of the license fee shall be refunded to the licensee.
   (B)   All applications for renewal shall be made to the Village Clerk on or
before May 1 of each year.
(1994 Code, § 7-5-3) (Ord. 03-05, passed 3-4-2003)
§ 110.083 NON-ASSIGNABILITY OF LICENSE.
   The location of the license may be changed only upon the written permission
of the Mayor. Any license hereunder shall be non-assignable and
nontransferable.
(1994 Code, § 7-5-4)
§ 110.084 CLOSING HOURS.
   No establishment operating under a license issued for the operation of
billiard, bagatelle, pigeonhole, pool or any other tables in which implements
are kept or used for similar purpose in any place of public resort shall be
open for use of any such tables between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
on any day, or between the hours of 12:00 a.m. Saturday and 12:00 p.m. the
following Sunday.
(1994 Code, § 7-5-5)
§ 110.085 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall permit any gambling in the premises for which the license
is issued.
(1994 Code, § 7-5-6)
§ 110.086 MINORS.
   Minors under the age of 16 years shall not, under any circumstances,
frequent, loiter, go or remain in any hall licensed hereunder at any time,
unless it be under the direction and consent of and knowledge of the parent,
guardian or other person having the lawful custody of the minor; and it shall
be unlawful for the proprietor of any hall so licensed to allow or permit any
minor to frequent, loiter or remain within the hall in violation of this
section.
(1994 Code, § 7-5-7) Penalty, see §
110.999
COIN-OPERATED MACHINES
§ 110.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any amusement machine or device operated by
means of the insertion of a coin, token or currency for the purpose of
amusement or skill and for the playing of which a fee is charged. The term
includes, but is not limited to, juke boxes, electronic video games, pinball
machines or other similar games. The term does include cigarette vending
machines.
   OPERATOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or club
who sets up for operation by another or leases or distributes for the purpose
of operation by another, any devices herein defined, whether the setting up for
operation, leasing or distributing be for a fixed charge or rental, or on the
basis of a division of the income derived from the device, or otherwise.
   PROPRIETOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or a
club who, as the owner, lessee or proprietor has under his or her or its
control, any establishment, place or premises in or at which the device is
placed or kept for use or play, or on exhibition for the purpose of use or
play.
(1994 Code, § 7-6-1)
§ 110.101 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of an operator of coin-operated
amusement devices within the corporate limits of the village without first
having obtained the proper license therefor.
(1994 Code, § 7-6-2) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.102 APPLICATION.
   Application for license shall be verified by oath or affidavit and contain
the following information:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual and in the case of a co-partnership, of the persons entitled to
share in the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and addresses
of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the stock of
the corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominees, the name and
address of the person;
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth; or if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
   (C)   The address of the place where the applicant proposes to operate;
   (D)   A statement whether the applicant has made a similar application for
similar license on premises other than those described in the application, and
the disposition of the application; and
   (E)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony,
and is not disqualified to receive the license under this section.
(1994 Code, § 7-6-3)
§ 110.103 PROHIBITED LICENSEES.
   The restrictions listed in §
110.081 above shall also apply to this subchapter.
(1994 Code, § 7-6-4)
§ 110.104 FEES.
   (A)   All operator's fees shall be payable in advance on or before May 1.
There shall be no refunds after the license fee has been paid.
   (B)   The annual fee for the license shall be $100 for each coin-operated
amusement device set up for operation, leased or distributed to a proprietor.
(1994 Code, § 7-6-5) (Ord. 03-06, passed 3-4-2003)
§ 110.105 NON-ASSIGNABILITY OF LICENSE.
   The location of a license may be changed only upon the written permission of
the Mayor. Any license issued hereunder shall be non-assignable and
nontransferable.
(1994 Code, § 7-6-6)
§ 110.106 PLACEMENT; GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All licensed devices shall, at all times, be kept and placed in plain
view of any person or persons who may frequent or be in any place of business
where the devices are kept or used.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize, permit or
license any gambling device of any nature whatsoever.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person receiving a license pursuant to
this subchapter to give or award a cash prize or equivalent to any person
playing any of the tables, devices or machines enumerated hereinabove under
tournament, league or any other individual or competitive play.
(1994 Code, § 7-6-7) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.107 CLOSING HOURS.
   No establishment operating under a license issued under this subchapter of
this chapter shall be open for use of any such devices between the hours of 12:
00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day, or between 12:00 a.m. Saturday and 12:00 p.m.
the following Sunday.
(1994 Code, § 7-6-8)
§ 110.108 MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any person under 16 years of age to play or
operate any coin-operated amusement device, or to frequent, loiter, go or
remain in any establishment licensed hereunder, unless it be upon some lawful
errand and with the direction and consent and knowledge of the parent, guardian
or other person having the lawful custody of the minor, and it shall be
unlawful for any proprietor of any establishment so licensed to allow or permit
any minor to play or operate a coin-operated amusement device or frequent,
loiter or remain within the establishment in violation of this subchapter.
(1994 Code, § 7-6-9) Penalty, see §
110.999
FEES
§ 110.135 FEES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   As provided for in §
110.005 above, the following businesses and occupations shall pay the following
annual fees; provided, however, a 50% discount shall be allowed if the fee is
paid on or before May 1 of each year.
   (B)   The license fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Bill posters: $60 per year;
      (2)   Outdoor sign advertisement: $60 per sign; and
      (3)   Restaurants: $40 per year.
(1994 Code, § 7-8-1)
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
110.018 shall be guilty of a violation of the revised code of ordinances of the
village, and shall be fined not less than $25 and not more than $500 per
occurrence.
   (C)   Violations of §§
110.030 through
110.040.
      (1)   Soliciting without a permit: $500 fine per violation.
      (2)   Failure to carry permit or state-issued ID: $250 fine per
violation.
      (3)   Violation of "no knock" registry: $500 fine per violation.
      (4)   Aggressive or misleading solicitation: permit revocation plus
potential criminal charges.
   (B)   Authority to enforce.
      (1)   The Chief of Police and all sworn officers shall have the authority
to enforce §§
110.030 through
110.040.
      (2)   Residents may report violations of §§
110.030 through
110.040 to the Village Clerk or Police Department.
(Ord. 00-20, passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 25-11, passed 5-6-2025)
APPENDIX A: BUSINESS LICENSE FORMS
BUSINESS LICENSE
STATE OF ILLINOIS            )
COUNTY OF MADISON         )   ss
VILLAGE OF SOUTH ROXANA   )
                              Illinois Sales Tax Number
________________________
TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS SHALL BECOME GREETINGS:
   WHEREAS _____________________________________________________________,
having complied with all the requirements of the laws of the State of Illinois,
and the ordinances of the Village of South Roxana, in this behalf made and
required license is by authority of the Village of South Roxana given and
granted to the said __________________ to _________________ at
____________________ in the Village of South Roxana, County of Madison and
State of Illinois from the date hereof until the _______ day of
__________________, 20 ____, the said _________________________ to be subject
to all laws of the State of Illinois, and all ordinances of the Village of
South Roxana, not in conflict therewith, which are now or hereafter may be in
force touching the premises.
(L.S)
   Given under the hand of the President of the Village of South Roxana,
Illinois and the seal thereof, this _____ day of _______________, 20___.
__________________________________
PRESIDENT
SOUTH ROXANA, ILLINOIS
COUNTERSIGNED:
___________________________________
VILLAGE CLERK
SOUTH ROXANA, ILLINOIS
(SEAL)
APPLICANT/FIELD CHECK
INFORMATION CARD
NAME                              LOCATION      DATE     TIME
RESIDENCE ADDRESS                 D.L. #
BUSINESS ADDRESS                  VEHICLE COLOR YR. BODY LICENSE INFO
OCCUPATION       SOC. SEC. NUMBER VEHICLE MODIFICATIONS
RACE SEX HGT WGT EYES             ACTION LEADING TO CHECK
                 HAIR
COMPLEXION       D.O.B.
UNUSUAL FEATURES
HAT          COAT
CAP          JACKET
BLOUSE       DRESS
SHIRT        SWEATER
SKIRT
TROUSERS
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS               ASSOCIATES
 
NOTICE TO APPLICANT: The Chief of Police shall have three days to review the
application and check the information.
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Applications
   
111.04   Prohibited licensees
   
111.05   Term; fee submitted in advance
   
111.06   Classification; fee
   
111.07   Nature of license
   
111.08   Limitation of licenses
   
111.09   Examination of applicant
   
111.10   Display of license
   
111.11   Record of licenses
   
111.12   Renewal and assignment
Regulations
   
111.25   Hours
   
111.26   License by the hour; civic organizations
   
111.27   Prohibited locations
   
111.28   Change of location
   
111.29   Stores selling school supplies and the like
   
111.30   Drinking on public ways
   
111.31   Transporting and the like in motor vehicles
   
111.32   Liquor in vehicles; minors
   
111.33   Restricted residential areas
   
111.34   Election days
   
111.35   Unlawful acts
   
111.36   Unlawful entertainment
   
111.37   Minors; sale to; entry on licensed premises
   
111.38   Sanitary conditions
   
111.39   Diseased employees
   
111.40   Health permit
   
111.41   Peddling
   
111.42   (Reserved)
   
111.43   Disorderly house
   
111.44   Prohibited sales; generally
   
111.45   Persons selling liquor
   
111.46   Unlawful purchase of liquor
   
111.47   Identification required
   
111.48   Transfer of identification card
   
111.49   Restriction of sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages
   
111.50   Posting warning
   
111.51   Exclusionary provision
   
111.52   Inspections
   
111.53   Transportation and consumption in public areas
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and including
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by human beings. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing 0.5% or less of alcohol by
volume.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes among
other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   BEER GARDEN. A privately owned outdoor location adjacent to and operated by
a premises where alcoholic liquor may be sold and consumed subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
   CLOSE. To shut up so as to prevent entrance or access by any person; and the
entire suspension of business.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state and not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors kept, used and maintained by its
members, through the payment of annual dues and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants and
employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members and
their guests; provided that the club files with the Mayor at the time of its
application for a license under this chapter, two copies of a list of names and
residences of its members, and similarly files within ten days of the election
of any additional member, his or her name and address; and provided further,
that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting, and that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid,
or directly or indirectly receives in the form of salary or other compensation,
any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or
its members or guests introduced by members, beyond the amount of such salary
as may be fixed and voted at the annual meeting by the members or by the board
of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
   MAYOR. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner as provided in the ILCS Ch.
235, Act 5, entitled "Dram-shop."
   PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. Any public place where packaged liquors are offered
for sale in the original, unopened container for consumption away from the
premises.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any premises enclosed or unenclosed or partly enclosed and
partly unenclosed wherein any service or goods, chattels or merchandise is
offered for sale to the public or any such premises used as a clubhouse, club
room or meeting place. The terms PUBLIC PLACE and PUBLIC PREMISES shall be
interchangeable for the purposes of this chapter.
   RESIDENT. One who has his or her residence in the village and is a
registered voter at that place of residence.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually are
served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, the space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for a consideration and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE OF RETAIL. Any mean sales for use or consumption and
not for resale in any form.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors and the liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including the beverages when
fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits as above defined.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-3.01 et seq.) (1994 Code, § 21-1-1) (Ord. 07-17,
passed 11-6-2007; Ord. 24-07, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, keep or offer for sale at retail, or conduct any
place for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor within the limits and
territory of this village without having a license to do so, issued by the
Mayor of this village in the manner hereinafter provided, and a valid license
for such purpose issued by the State Control Commission of the state.
   (B)   A similar valid license issued by the Mayor of this village is hereby
required for and with respect to each building, location and premises, within
the aforesaid territory of this village, at or upon which alcoholic liquor is
to be sold or kept or offered for sale at retail.
(1994 Code, § 21-2-1) (Ord. 24-07, passed 6-4-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to grant and issue licenses to individuals,
firms and corporations to sell at retail and to keep and offer for sale at
retail alcoholic liquors within the limits and territory of the village upon
the conditions and in the manner provided by this chapter and by the Act of the
General Assembly of the state, and not otherwise.
   (B)   The license shall be in writing, signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Village Clerk, with the seal of his or her office affixed thereto.
   (C)   Prior to issuance of a license, the applicant must submit to the Mayor
an application, in writing and under oath, stating:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the person entitled to share in
the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the object for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the
stock of the corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominee, the
address and name of the person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant, and in a case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been engaged in the
business of that character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which
its charter was issued;
      (5)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under the license;
      (6)   Whether applicant has made similar application for a similar other
license on premises other than described in the application and the disposition
of the application;
      (7)   That applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is not
disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in
the aforesaid Act of the General Assembly or in this chapter, or resolution and
amendments thereto;
      (8)   Whether a previous license issued to the applicant, by any state or
subdivision thereof, or by the federal government has been revoked and the
reasons therefor; and
      (9)   That he or she will not violate any of the laws of the state or of
the United States, or any of the provisions of this chapter or resolution and
amendments thereto in the conduct of his or her place of business.
   (D)   In case of a partnership or corporation, the information and
statements required by this section shall be furnished as to each partner, and
as to the president and secretary of the corporation with the location of the
principal office of the corporation.
   (E)   If the application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to by
at least two members of the partnership, firm, association or club, or by the
president and secretary of the corporation.
   (F)   One copy of the application shall be retained by the Mayor, one copy
given to the Chief of Police; the Chief of Police shall endorse on the copies
his or her approval or disapproval of the application and may make further
comments regarding that application. The copies shall be returned to the Mayor
and the endorsement and comment of the Chief of Police shall be considered by
him or her as an aid in deciding whether the license should be issued or
refused.
   (G)   The Mayor shall have the right to examine or cause to be examined
under oath, any applicant for a local license or for renewal thereof, or any
licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been served and to
examine or cause to be examined, the books and records of any such applicant or
licensee; to hear testimony and take proof for his or her information in the
performance of his or her duties, and for that purpose to issue subpoenas which
shall be effective in any part of this state.
   (H)   For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the
Mayor under this section, he or she may authorize his or her agent to act on
his or her behalf.
   (I)   No liquor license shall issue or be maintained unless the applicant or
licensee provides proof of dram shop liability insurance from a reputable
insurance company with limits of coverage no less than the maximum liability
allowed by the statutes of the State of Illinois.
(1994 Code, § 21-2-2) (Ord. 24-07, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 111.04 PROHIBITED LICENSEES.
   No retail license shall be issued by the Mayor to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the village;
   (B)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
state;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor;
   (F)   A person whose license has previously been revoked for cause;
   (G)   A person who, at the time of the application for renewal for any
license issued hereunder would not be eligible for the license upon first
application;
   (H)   A partnership, unless all members shall be qualified to obtain the
license;
   (I)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the corporation would not
be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than the
residence requirement;
   (J)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to February 6, 1934, or shall have forfeited his or her bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any violation;
   (K)   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor license;
   (L)   A person who does not pass a criminal background check;
   (M)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent;
the manager or agent possess the same qualifications required of the licensee;
   (N)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this chapter or shall have forfeited his or her
bond to appear in court to answer charges;
   (O)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not rent, nor have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued; or
   (P)   Any law enforcing public official, including members of local liquor
control commissions, any mayor, alderperson or member of a city council or
commission, any president of a village board of trustees, any member of a
village board of trustees, or any president or member of a county board; and no
such official shall be interested in any way, either directly or indirectly in
the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that license
may be granted to the official in relation to premises which are not located
within the territory subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the
issuance of the license is approved by the State Liquor Control Commission.
(1994 Code, § 21-2-3) (Ord. 24-07, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 111.05 TERM; FEE SUBMITTED IN ADVANCE.
   (A)   Retail liquor licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for
12-month periods upon the payment of the license fee as hereinafter set forth,
unless sooner revoked or suspended. The 12-month periods shall be from November
1 of each year to October 31 of the next year. The license fee shall be payable
in advance by the applicant for a license at the time the application for a
license is submitted to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner as hereinbefore
provided. In the event the license is denied, the license fee shall be returned
to the applicant. The fees shall be deposited with the Village Treasurer who
shall deposit the fees in the Village General Fund. The application for a
license shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Licenses shall state thereon the names of the licensees and the
address and description of the premises for which they are granted and the
dates of their issuance and expiration.
(1994 Code, § 21-2-4) (Ord. 24-07, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 111.06 CLASSIFICATION; FEE.
   There shall be four classes of licenses that shall be referred to as:
   (A)   Class A: Retail licenses which shall authorize the retail sale on the
premises specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises as well
as other retail sales of liquor. The annual fee for the license shall be $800.
There shall be a limit of three Class A licenses;
   (B)   Class B: Special events licenses, which shall authorize the retail
sale and consumption on certain defined premises for not-for-profit civic,
patriotic and fraternal organizations holding celebrations, picnics, fairs,
bazaars and other special events. However, the special events shall not exceed
three consecutive days and the opening and closing hours for alcohol sales each
day shall be the same as for taverns. The license fee shall be $50 per day, not
to exceed three days and nights. There is no limit on the total number of Class
B licenses which may be issued each year, but no single applicant can hold a
special event liquor license for more than nine days in any one year. No
special event license shall be issued for sale of alcoholic beverages on
village owned property without the approval of the Mayor and Village Board. In
the event of use of village owned property for sale of alcoholic liquor during
a special event, the applicant or sponsor of the special event must provide
proof of dram shop insurance as required by § 111.03(I) and such insurance must
name the village of South Roxana as an additional insured;
   (C)   Class C: Fraternal group licenses, which shall authorize the retail
sale and consumption on the premises for civic, patriotic and fraternal
organizations. The annual license fee shall be $300. There is no limit on the
number of Class C licenses which may be issued;
   (D)   Class D: Liquor store licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale
or consumption of alcoholic liquor in sealed packages, but not for consumption
on the premises. The annual license fee for such a license shall be $500; and
   (E)   Class E: Restaurant licenses which shall authorize the retail sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquor on the premises. The annual license fee shall
be $500.
(1994 Code, § 21-2-5) (Ord. 24-07, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 111.07 NATURE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal
privilege, good for not to exceed 12 months after issued, unless sooner revoked
as in this chapter authorized and provided and shall not constitute property,
nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it
be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate
devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee, provided that
executors and administrators of any estate of the deceased licensee and the
trustees of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when the estate consists in
part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic
liquor under the order of the court having jurisdiction of the estate and may
exercise the privileges of the deceased, insolvent or bankrupt licensee, after
the death of the decedent, or the insolvency or bankruptcy, until the
expiration of the license, but not longer than six months after the death,
bankruptcy or insolvency of the licensee.
(1994 Code, § 21-2-6) (Ord. 24-07, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 111.08 LIMITATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Annexing license holders. The restrictions contained in this chapter
shall in no way affect taverns and other business(es) holding retail liquor
licenses, duly licensed by the county which are located in the territory
annexed to the village. Licenses may be issued to them or renewed by the duly
constituted authorities upon annexation; provided that thereafter, all of the
restrictions and contingencies contained herein shall apply.
   (B)   Destroyed or damaged business. No license shall be held in existence
by the mere payment of fees by any person, firm or corporation for a longer
period than 90 days without a tavern or liquor business for the same being in
complete and full operation. However, if a tavern or liquor business has been
destroyed or damaged by fire or act of God and cannot be rebuilt or repaired
within the 90-day period, then, in that event, the Mayor shall extend the
period of time for which a liquor license may be held by the payment of fees
without the tavern or liquor business being in full and complete operation for
an additional 90 days. If either of the above stated periods of time passes
without the particular tavern or liquor business returning to complete and full
operation, the license for that particular business shall expire and not be
subject to renewal, unless all other requirements of this chapter shall have
been met.
(1994 Code, § 21-2-7) (Ord. 24-07, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 111.09 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT.
   The Mayor shall have the right to examine or cause to be examined, under
oath, any applicant for a local license or for renewal thereof, or any licensee
upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been served, and to examine or
cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee; to
hear testimony and take proof for his or her information in the performance of
his or her duties, and for the purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be
effective in any part of this state. For the purpose of obtaining any of the
information desired by the Mayor under this section, he or she may authorize
his or her agent to act on his or her behalf.
(1994 Code, § 21-2-8) (Ord. 24-07, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 111.10 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under this chapter shall cause his or her license to be
framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(1994 Code, § 21-2-9) (Ord. 24-07, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 111.11 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The Mayor shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued by him or her
and shall supply the Clerk, Treasurer and Chief of Police a copy of the same;
upon issuance or revocation of a license, the Mayor shall give written notice
to these same officers within 48 hours.
(1994 Code, § 21-2-11) (Ord. 24-07, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 111.12 RENEWAL AND ASSIGNMENT.
   (A)   The owner of a license to keep a place where alcoholic liquor is sold
or offered for sale has the right to a renewal or reissue of the license at the
same or different lawful place of business in compliance so long as the
licensee remains in compliance with all ordinances, regulations and statutes
with the laws of the village, state and federal governments.
   (B)   The licensee may assign or convey his or her right to the renewal or
reissue thereof to any qualified person who, upon compliance with the laws of
the state relating thereto and this chapter, shall be entitled to a renewal or
reissue of the license in his or her own name.
(1994 Code, § 21-2-12) (Ord. 24-07, passed 6-4-2024)
REGULATIONS
§ 111.25 HOURS.
   (A)   No person shall sell or offer for sale at retail any liquor in the
village between the hours of:
      (1)   1:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day; or
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon.
   (B)   No person shall keep open for business or admit the public to any
premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold at retail during the hours
within which the sale of liquor is prohibited. In the case of restaurants,
clubs and hotels, the establishments may be kept open during those hours, but
no alcoholic liquor may be sold to or consumed by the public during those
hours.
   (C)   Any deviation from the hours established in this section must be
approved by a simple majority of the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-1) (Ord. 03-16, passed 10-21-2003) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 LICENSE BY THE HOUR; CIVIC ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   Upon application, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner is authorized
to issue a license for a period of 12 hours or 24 hours to any civic
organization who keeps or desires to keep any place selling or offering for
sale, or in any manner dealing in any alcoholic liquors. The fee for the
license shall be for the sale of alcoholic liquors for more than 12 hours and
not more than 24 hours within any one day, the fee shall be $1, subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The organization shall provide evidence of dram shop insurance as
required by law and this chapter governing the sale or giving away of alcoholic
liquors.
   (C)   No license shall be transferable.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-2)
§ 111.27 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the sale of any alcoholic liquor at
retail within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for the aged or
indigent persons, or for veterans, their spouses or children or any military or
naval station, provided that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs or to restaurants, food
shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal
business carried on, if the place of business so exempted shall have been
established for that purpose prior to the taking effect of this chapter; nor to
the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on the
premises within 100 feet of any church or school where the church or school has
been established within that 100 feet since the issuance of the original
license. In the case of a church, the distance of 100 feet shall be measured to
the nearest part of any building used for worship services or educational
programs and not to property boundaries.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a
church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales
are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquors.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-3)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-11
§ 111.28 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   (A)   A retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor only on the premises described in the application and license.
   (B)   The location may be changed only upon the written permit to make the
change issued by the Mayor.
   (C)   No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the law
of this state and the code of this village.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-4)
§ 111.29 STORES SELLING SCHOOL SUPPLIES AND THE LIKE.
   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for the
minors.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-5)
§ 111.30 DRINKING ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful to drink any alcoholic liquor on any public streets,
alleys, sidewalks and other public ways in the village unless authorized at a
regular or special meeting of the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-6) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.31 TRANSPORTING AND THE LIKE IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall, within the village, transport, carry, possess or have
any alcoholic liquor in, upon or about any motor vehicle in or on any public
street, alley or place, except in the original package and with the seal
unbroken.
   (B)   The licensee shall not knowingly permit any person to leave his or her
premises with liquor in a "cup-to-go".
(1994 Code, § 21-3-7)
§ 111.32 LIQUOR IN VEHICLES; MINORS.
   The presence in a vehicle other than a public vehicle of any alcoholic
liquor shall be prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of and is
being carried by all persons occupying the vehicle at the time of which the
alcoholic liquor is found, except under the following circumstances:
   (A)   If the liquor is found on the person of one of the occupants therein;
or
   (B)   If the vehicle contains at least one occupant over 21 years of age.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-8)
§ 111.33 RESTRICTED RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to establish a retail liquor business within the
village in violation of the restrictions of the Zoning Code, if any.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-9) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 ELECTION DAYS.
   All licensees may sell alcoholic liquor at retail, by the drink or in the
original package for consumption either on or off the premises licensed on the
day of any national, state, county or municipal election, including primary
elections during the hours the polls are open within the political area in
which the election is being held and on Sundays; subject to all the remaining
terms, conditions and opening hours and closing hours in this chapter set
forth.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-10)
§ 111.35 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do or commit any of the following
acts within the village, to-wit:
   (A)   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any public street, alley, sidewalk or
other public way without special permission granted by the Mayor;
   (B)   Drink any alcoholic liquors in any public park, except with the
permission of the Mayor;
   (C)   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any private property without permission
of an owner thereof; or
   (D)   Appear on or in any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public
place, including parks and recreation areas, in an intoxicated condition.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.36 UNLAWFUL ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   No licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee shall permit or
allow any lewd or lascivious act or any topless and/or bottomless employee and/
or employees (topless being defined as naked and substantially without clothing
or covering of the body from the waist to the neckline and bottomless being
defined as naked and substantially without clothing or covering of the body
from the waist downward), or entertainment to be performed within the licensed
premises by an entertainer employed therein, or by any employee or guest; nor
shall any licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee permit or allow any
employee or guest, or any other person whomever to solicit or encourage the
purchasing of any alcoholic liquor or beverage of any description, or the
giving of any gratuity or gift by any patron or guest to or for the benefit of
the employee or guest.
   (B)   The following kinds of conduct on premises in the village licensed to
sell liquor are prohibited:
      (1)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts;
      (2)   The actual or simulated exhibition, touching, caressing or fondling
of the breasts, buttocks, pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
      (3)   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, buttocks, pubic
hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
      (4)   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to view any portion of his or her breasts,
buttocks, genitals, vulva or anus; and
      (5)   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live
performance of which are prohibited by the regulations quoted above.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-12) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37 MINORS; SALE TO; ENTRY ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to enter
upon premises where alcoholic liquors, spirits, beer or wine are sold by the
holder of a liquor license, unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   (B)   No holder of a liquor license, nor any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any person under
the age of 21 years not accompanied by a parent or legal guardian to enter the
licensed premises.
   (C)   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any
holder of a liquor license or his or her agent or employee may refuse to permit
entry onto the licensed premises of any person under the age of 21 years who is
unable to produce adequate written evidence of the fact that the person
accompanying such person under the age of 21 years is that person's parent or
guardian.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.38 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage
of the liquor for the sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and
shall be kept in full compliance with the codes regulating the condition of the
premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(ILCS Ch. 410, Act 650, §§ 1 et seq.) (1994 Code, § 21-3-14) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.39 DISEASED EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor, any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of any
contagious disease, infectious or venereal disease; and it shall be unlawful
for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease to work
in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation
or distribution of the liquor.
(ILCS Ch. 410, Act 650, § 10) (1994 Code, § 21-3-15) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.40 HEALTH PERMIT.
   Every licensee shall have, at all times, a valid operating permit from the
County Health Department which regulates health standards, if necessary.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-16)
§ 111.41 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the village.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-17) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.42 (RESERVED).
§ 111.43 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   Any person licensed under this chapter shall not suffer any disorder,
drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, unlawful games or riotous or disorderly
conduct in any house or premises kept or occupied by him or her for the sale of
liquor.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.44 PROHIBITED SALES; GENERALLY.
   No licensee, nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of the licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person or to any person
known by him or her to be an habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally
ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. No person, after
purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor shall sell, give or deliver
the alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years, except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-20) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.45 PERSONS SELLING LIQUOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to attend any
bar or to sell, draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail
premises.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-21) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.46 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF LIQUOR.
   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic
liquor or have the alcoholic liquor in his or her possession.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-22) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.47 IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   If a licensee or his or her agents or employees believe or have reason
to believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because of the age of the prospective recipient, he or she shall, before making
the sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive
identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the
performance of his or her official duties.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-20)
   (B)   Proof that the defendant/licensee, or his or her employees or agent
demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied upon the written evidence in any
transaction forbidden by this section is competent evidence and may be
considered in any criminal prosecution therefor or in any proceedings for the
suspension or revocation of any license based thereon.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-23)
§ 111.48 TRANSFER OF IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification card; use
the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this chapter. The consumption of alcoholic
liquor by any person under the age of 21 years is forbidden.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-20) (1994 Code, § 21-3-24) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.49 RESTRICTION OF SALE AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   No Class “A” or Class “C” licensee shall sell, give, deliver or allow to be
consumed alcoholic liquor on the premises set forth in the application and
license issued, except within the building structure located on the premises.
No person shall leave the licensed building structure with open liquor except
to travel en route to the beer garden adjacent to or connected to the building
structure.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-25) (Ord. 10-05, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 111.50 POSTING WARNING.
   (A)   In every licensed business where alcoholic liquor is sold, there shall
be displayed at all times in a prominent place, a printed card which shall be
supplied by the Village Clerk, and which shall read as follows:
WARNING TO MINORS
"YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE UP TO $500 UNDER THE ORDINANCES OF THIS MUNICIPALITY
IF YOU PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR OR MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF
PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR."
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer's
license or his or her agent or employee to suffer or permit any minor to be or
remain in any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the
room or place where the licensed premises is located, provided that this
division shall not apply to any minor who is accompanied by his or her parent
or guardian, or any licensed premises which derives its principal business from
the sale of services or other commodities other than alcoholic liquor.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-26) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.51 EXCLUSIONARY PROVISION.
   The possession and dispensing or consumption by a minor of alcoholic liquor
in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the consumption by a
minor under the direct supervision and approval of the parent or parents of the
minor in the privacy of a home is not prohibited by this chapter.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 43, § 134A) (1994 Code, § 21-3-27)
§ 111.52 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant admittance to the premises for which
a license has been issued at any time upon the verbal request of the Chief of
Police, any police officer, the Zoning Administrator, if any, or any member of
the Village Board for the purpose of making an inspection of the premises, or
any part thereof.
(1994 Code, § 21-3-28) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.53 TRANSPORTATION AND CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   No pedestrian shall transport alcoholic liquor in unsealed containers on the
streets, public walkways, highways, alleys or thoroughfares, or upon or across
any private premises commonly used for public parking and driveway purposes in
the village without first having obtained permission to do so from the owners
thereof.
(Ord. 00-19, passed 11-21-2000) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Owner of premises permitting violation. If the owner of the licensed
premises or any person from whom the licensee derives the right to possession
of the premises, or the agent of the owner or person shall knowingly permit the
licensee to use the licensed premises in violation of the terms of this
chapter, the owner, agent or other person shall be deemed guilty of a violation
of this chapter to the same extent as the licensee and be subject to the same
punishment.
   (B)   Acts of agent or employee; liability; knowledge. Every act or omission
of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any
licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the employer or licensee,
and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if the
act or omission had been done or omitted by him or her personally.
   (C)   Revocation of license after conviction. Whenever any licensee shall be
convicted of any violation of this chapter, the license of the licensee may, in
the discretion of the Mayor, be revoked and forfeited and all fees paid thereon
shall be forfeited, and it shall thereafter be unlawful and shall constitute a
further violation of this chapter for the licensee to continue to operate under
the license.
   (D)   Revocation of license when employee convicted. Whenever any officer,
director, manager or other employee in a position of authority of any licensee
under this chapter shall be convicted of any violation of this chapter while
engaged in the course of his or her employment or while upon the premises
described by the license, the license shall be revoked and the fees paid
thereon forfeited both as to the holder of the license and as to the premises
if the licensee had himself or herself been convicted.
   (E)   Misbranding. Any person who shall knowingly possess, sell or in any
way dispose of any alcoholic liquor under any other than the proper name or
brand known to the trade as designating the kind and quality of the contents of
the package or other containers of the alcoholic liquor, or who shall cause any
such act to be done, shall forfeit to the state the alcoholic liquor and the
packages and containers, and shall be subject to the punishment and penalties
provided for violation of this chapter.
   (F)   Abatement of place used in violation. Every lot, parcel or tract of
land, and every building, structure, tent, railroad car, boat, wagon, vehicle,
establishment or place whatsoever, together with all furniture, fixtures,
ornaments and machinery located thereon, wherein there shall be conducted any
unlawful sale of any alcoholic liquor, or whereon or wherein there shall be
kept, stored, concealed or allowed any alcoholic liquor intended for illegal
sale or to be sold, disposed of or in any other manner used in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance
and shall be abated as provided by the laws of this state for the abatement of
public nuisances.
   (G)   Revocation of licenses.
      (1)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following
powers, functions and duties with respect to licenses granted under this
chapter.
         (a)   In addition to and not limited by the specific penalties set out
for violations of specific articles of this chapter, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may suspend for 30 days or revoke any liquor license issued under
this chapter for any state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquors by
any licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee.
         (b)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may suspend or revoke any
liquor license if the licensee makes any false statement or misrepresentation
in the application for a license.
         (c)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may enter or authorize any
law enforcing officer to enter at any time upon any premises licensed to
determine whether any of the provisions of this chapter or the laws of the
state pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor have been or are being
violated at such time to examine the premises of the licensee in connection
therewith.
         (d)   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, stating that any licensee
under this chapter has been or is violating the provisions of this chapter or
any amendments hereto, or of any of the statutes of the state, enacted with
reference to the control of liquor. The complaint shall be in writing and shall
be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining.
      (2)   The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
the belief is based. If the Local Liquor Control Commissioner is satisfied that
the complaint substantially charges a violation, and that from the facts
alleged, there is reasonable cause for the belief, he or she shall set the
matter for hearing, and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and
place of the hearing and of the particular charges in the complaint.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 43, § 112)
   (H)   Revocation or suspension of local license; notice and hearing.
      (1)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke or suspend any
license issued by him or her if he or she determines that the licensee has
violated any of the provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, being ILCS
Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq., or any valid ordinance or resolution enacted by
the County Board or any applicable rule or regulation established by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner or the State Commission which is not inconsistent
with law. However, no such license shall be so revoked or suspended, except
after a public hearing by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner with a three-
day written notice to the licensee, affording the licensee an opportunity to
appear and defend.
      (2)   The service of the notice may be made by leaving a copy of the
notice at the place of business of the licensee with some person over the age
of 15 years, and informing such person of the contents of the notice. The
return of the County Sheriff as to the manner of service shall be sufficient.
On the day set for hearing, if the licensee does not appear at the time and
place designated in the notice, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may
proceed to hear the case, the same as if the licensees were present and to
render a decision on the merits of the case.
      (3)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall, within five days after
the hearing, if he or she determines after the hearing that the license should
be revoked or suspended, state the reason or reasons for the determination in a
written order of revocation or suspension and shall serve a copy of the order
within the five days upon the licensee. The findings of the Commissioner shall
be predicated upon competent evidence.
(1994 Code, § 21-4-8)
CHAPTER 112: RAFFLES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Applications
   
112.04   Restrictions of licenses
   
112.05   Conduct of raffles
   
112.06   Limitations on licenses
   
112.07   Conduct of raffles; manager; bond
   
112.08   Records
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE. An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit
an indefinite number of the public. The services rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   EDUCATIONAL. An organization or institution organized and operated to
provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common
to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope
and intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
   FRATERNAL. An organization of, persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
   LABOR. An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in the pursuit. The pursuit and
the development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective
occupations.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   NON-PROFIT. An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-
for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 28-2(b),
of the Criminal Code of 1961 conducted by an organization licensed under this
code in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; or
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   RELIGIOUS. Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS. An organization or association comprised of members which are
substantially veterans and spouses, widows or widowers of veterans, the primary
purpose of which is to promote the welfare of its membership and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to confer a public benefit.
(1994 Code, § 31-1-1)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to conduct
raffles or chances within the village unless the person, firm or corporation
has a valid license issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, fraternal, educational or veteran organizations that operate without
profit to their members and which have been in existence continuously for a
period of five years immediately before making application for a license and
which have been during that entire five-year period a bona fide membership
engaged in carrying out their objects.
   (C)   Any applicant for any license under this chapter shall, upon
submission of the application to the Village Clerk or his or her designated
representative, pay to the village an application and annual fee of the sum of
$100. The application shall not be considered for approval unless the payment
is made at the time of submission.
(1994 Code, § 31-1-2) (Ord. 94-07, passed 9-22-1994; Am. Ord. 11-04, passed 2-
15-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for the licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk in the
absence of provision to the contrary, or his or her designated representative;
signed by the applicant or its duly authorized representatives and verified by
oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following information and statements:
   (A)   Names and ages and addresses of the applicant in the case of an
individual or in such other case by the duly authorized representatives of the
applicant, the date of incorporation of any corporation, the date of formation
of any club, the objects for which a club or corporation was formed, the names
and addresses of the officers and directors of any club, the name and address
of the local representative of any church;
   (B)   The character of business of the applicant and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
   (C)   The location and description of the premises or place of business upon
which the raffle will be held;
   (D)   The area or areas within the village in which raffle chances will be
sold or issued, the time period during which raffle chances will be sold or
issued, the time of determination of winning chances and the method by which
the winning change will be determined;
   (E)   A statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
respective licensee organization signed by the presiding officer and secretary
of that organization;
   (F)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this code, other codes of the village, laws of the state or of the
United States of America;
   (G)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof or by
the federal government has been revoked and the reasons therefor;
   (H)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state or of the United States or any ordinances of this village in the conduct
of the raffle; and
   (I)   A statement that the applicant will not allow gambling devices or
gambling on the premises where the drawing will be held.
(1994 Code, § 31-1-3)
§ 112.04 RESTRICTIONS OF LICENSES.
   No such license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the village;
   (B)   A person who does not pass a criminal background check;
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor;
   (F)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   (G)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for the license upon a first
application;
   (H)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate, more than 5% of the stock
of the corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than residence within the village;
   (I)   A corporation whose registered agent is not a resident of the village;
   (J)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (K)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
   (L)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this chapter or shall have forfeited his or her
bond to appear in court to answer charges for any violation;
   (M)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued;
   (N)   Any law enforcing public official, any city manager, any mayor,
alderperson or member of a city council or commission, or any president or
member of a county board, or any president, trustee or member of a village
board of trustees, and no such official shall be interested in any way, either
directly or indirectly in the manufacture for sale, sale or distribution of
alcoholic liquor;
   (O)   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor dealer's license;
   (P)   A person who is not a beneficiary owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   (Q)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any part of § 28-1, subsections (a)(3) through (a) (10), or as proscribed by
the Criminal Code of 1961, § 28-3 approved July 28, 1961, as heretofore or
hereafter amended as contained in Ill. Rev. Stat., 1961, Ch. 38, §§ 28-1, 28-
3 or as proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory
provisions;
   (R)   A person to whom a federal gaming device stamp or a federal wagering
stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax period;
   (S)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 20% of the stock of the
corporation has been issued a federal gaming device stamp or a federal wagering
stamp for the current tax period; or
   (T)   Any premises for which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period.
(1994 Code, § 31-1-4)
§ 112.05 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game;
   (B)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle;
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle;
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premise on which to determine the winning chance
or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed under
this act;
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license; and
   (F)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian.
(1994 Code, § 31-1-5)
§ 112.06 LIMITATIONS ON LICENSES.
   (A)   A license authorizes the licensee to conduct raffles as defined in
this chapter. Each license is valid for one raffle.
   (B)   The license shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by
the licensee in a single raffle. In no event shall the aggregate retail value
of all prizes or merchandise exceed the sum of $25,000 in a single raffle;
      (2)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by the licensee in a
single raffle. In no event shall the aggregate retail value of all prizes or
merchandise exceed the sum of $15,000 in a single raffle;
      (3)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance
issued or sold by the licensee, provided that the licensee shall submit to the
Village Clerk or his or her designated representative the aggregate retail
value of all the prizes or merchandise to be awarded, the total number of
chances which may be issued or sold and the projected net proceeds as defined
by this chapter which shall be the basis in determining the maximum price which
may be charged for each raffle chance. Upon receipt of all of the foregoing
information, the Village Mayor or his or her designated representative shall
review and approve the maximum price for each raffle chance, or in the event
the Village Mayor or his or her designated representative does not approve the
price per raffle chance, he or she shall communicate the reason for the denial
to the person applying for the license within ten days of receipt of
application for the proposed license; and
      (4)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold.
   (C)   (1)   Except as is provided in division (B)(3) above, the Mayor or his
or her designated representative shall have 30 days in which to approve or
disapprove the license applied for.
      (2)   In the event the Mayor or his or her designated representative
shall fail to take action within the 30-day period, in the event they would
disapprove the license applied for, or in the event they would fail to approve
the maximum price charged for each raffle chance pursuant to division (B)(3)
above, the applicant shall have the right upon written receipt to repeal that
decision to the Mayor and Village Board at the next regularly scheduled Board
meeting.
      (3)   The Mayor and Village Board shall have the right to review the
application and approve or deny issuance of the license applied for.
   (D)   The Mayor or his or her designated representative may revoke any
licenses issued by the village if it is determined that the licensee has
violated any provision of this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 31-1-6)
§ 112.07 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES; MANAGER; BOND.
   (A)   Operation and conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of a
single raffles manager designated by the person or organization making
application for a license.
   (B)   The manager shall give a fidelity bond in an amount not less than the
anticipated gross receipts for each raffle.
   (C)   The bond shall be in favor of the organization and conditioned upon
his or her honesty in the performance of his or her duties.
   (D)   The bond shall also provide that notice be given in writing to the
village not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation.
   (E)   The Mayor or his or her designated representative is authorized to
waive requirement for bond by including a waiver provision in the license
issued; provided that the license containing the waiver provision shall be
granted only by unanimous vote of the members of the licensed organization.
(1994 Code, § 31-1-7)
§ 112.08 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same non-profit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the Department of Revenue of the state,
and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have separate records
of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who
accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report monthly to
its membership, and to the village, its gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from raffles, and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as
required in this section.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years,
and organizations shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(1994 Code, § 31-1-8)
CHAPTER 113: ADULT BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License required
   
113.04   Issuance of license
   
113.05   Liquor
   
113.06   Fees
   
113.07   Inspection
   
113.08   Expiration of license
   
113.09   Suspension
   
113.10   Revocation
   
113.11   Transfer of license
   
113.12   Business records
   
113.13   Liquor license
   
113.14   Cabarets; restrictions
   
113.15   Video viewing booths
   
113.16   Hours of operation
   
113.17   Investigation
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate adult uses to protect the
community from the many types of criminal activity frequently associated with
those uses.
   (B)   The village recognizes that the regulation cannot effectively prohibit
the uses, but can balance the competing interest of the community in reducing
criminal activity and protecting property values versus the protected rights of
the owners, operators, employees and patrons of adult uses.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or for
viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin operated means,
and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities", or
"specified anatomical areas", or an establishment with a segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of those materials, or an establishment that
holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of the materials based upon its
signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or
coin-operated booths, exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or
any other factors showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey the
material.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment which:
      (1)   Features topless dancers, strippers, "go-go" dancers, male or
female impersonators, lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows;
      (2)   Not infrequently features entertainers who display "specified
anatomical areas"; or
      (3)   Features entertainers who, by reason of their appearance or
conduct, perform in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the
prurient interest of the patron or features entertainers who engage in, or are
engaged in explicit simulation of "specified sexual activities".
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or area used for presenting
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY STORE. An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade consisting of toys, devices, clothing
"novelties", lotions and other items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on or use for specialized sexual activities" or special anatomical
areas" or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of
such materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays; actual sales,
exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or any other factors
showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey the material.
   ADULT USE. Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
entertainment cabarets, adult clubs allowing nudity at regular or frequent
times, adult novelty stores and other similar uses.
   EMPLOYEE. Employees, independent contractors or any other person who is
retained by the licensee or subject to dismissal from working at the licensed
premises.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area, female
breasts with less than a full opaque covering below a point immediately above
the top of the areola, human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even
if completely and opaquely covered or, that portion of the buttocks which would
be covered by a properly worn "thong" type bikini bottom.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any location frequented by the public, or where the public is
present or likely to be present, or where a person may reasonably be expected
to be observed by members of the public. PUBLIC PLACES include, but are not
limited to, streets, sidewalks, parks, beaches, business and commercial
establishments (whether for profit or not-for-profit and whether open to the
public at large or where entrance is limited by a cover charge or membership
requirement), hotels, motels, restaurants, nightclubs, country clubs, cabarets
and meeting facilities utilized by social, fraternal or similar organizations.
Premises used solely as a private residence, whether permanent or temporary in
nature, shall not be deemed a PUBLIC PLACE. PUBLIC PLACES shall not include
enclosed single sex public restrooms, enclosed single sex functional showers,
locker and/or dressing room facilities, enclosed motel rooms and hotel rooms
designed and intended for sleeping accommodations, doctors offices, churches,
synagogues or similar places when used for circumcisions, baptisms or similar
religious ceremonies, portions of hospitals and similar places in which nudity
or exposure is necessarily and customarily expected outside of the home; nor
shall it include a person appearing in a state of nudity in a modeling class
operated by:
      (1)   A proprietary school licensed by the state; a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (2)   A private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or a university supported entirely or partly by taxation or an
accredited private college.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and-opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals;
         (b)   Pubic region;
         (c)   Buttocks; and/or
         (d)   Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a minor; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; public indecency; indecency with a child; engaged in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or countries;
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction which is the
later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for conviction; whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement from the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurred within any 24-month
period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult use without a
valid adult business license issued by the village pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license shall be made on a form provided by the
village.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including, fingerprints) as is needed to enable the village to
determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications established in this
chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate an adult use is an individual, the
person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If the applicant
is a club, consisting of private or public membership, then the entity shall
also be licensed under this chapter. If a person who wishes to operate an adult
use is other than an individual or club, each individual who has an interest in
the business, including corporations, must sign the application for a license
as applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under the following section and
each applicant shall be considered a licensee if the license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for an adult use business license shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state his
or her legal name and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 18 years
of age;
      (2)   If the applicant is a club, consisting of private or public
membership, a copy of the by-laws of the club must be submitted with the
application. In addition, a sworn statement as to the purposes, general
activities and requirement for club membership must be submitted;
      (3)   If the applicant is a partnership, the partnership shall sate its
complete name and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general
or limited, and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any; and
      (4)   If the applicant is a corporation, the corporation shall state its
complete name, the date of incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in
good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and
capacity of all officers, directors and principal shareholders, (those with a
20% or more stake) and the name and address of the registered corporate agent.
   (F)   If the applicant intends to operate the adult use business under a
name other than that on the application, he or she must state:
      (1)   The business' fictitious name; and
      (2)   Submit any required registration documents.
   (G)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of any specified criminal
activity as defined in this chapter, and if so, the specified criminal activity
involved, the date, place or jurisdiction of each.
   (H)   (1)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this
chapter or similar ordinances from another jurisdiction denied, suspended or
revoked, including the name and location of the business for which the permit
was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension
or revocation.
      (2)   If the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer,
director or principal stockholder of a corporation that is or was licensed
under this chapter or similar ordinance in another jurisdiction and a license
has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, include the name and location
of the business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well
as the date of denial, suspension or revocation.
   (I)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter or
other similar ordinance from another jurisdiction and if so, the names and
locations of the other licensed business.
   (J)   (1)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor area occupied by the business.
      (2)   This sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it
must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the
interior of the premises.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed adult use business license
application, the village shall approve or deny the issuance of a license to an
applicant. The village shall approve the issuance of a license unless it
determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, any one or more of the
following:
      (1)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   The applicant is overdue in payment to the village of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him or her in relation to
any business;
      (3)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for the issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (4)   The applicant has been denied a license by the village to operate
an adult use business within the preceding 12 months or whose license to
operate an adult use business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (5)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
defined in this chapter;
      (6)   The premises to be used for adult use business has not been
inspected and approved by the Fire Department and the Building Department as
being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid; and/or
      (8)   The applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation or is
not in compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the address of
the adult use business. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at
or near the entrance to the business so that they may be easily read at any
time.
   (C)   The Fire Department and Code Enforcement Officers shall complete their
inspection certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance with village codes within 20 days of receipt of the application by
the village.
   (D)   No adult use business license shall be issued unless it meets all
criteria set forth in the Zoning Code. However, an adult use business license
may be issued for a premises which is a legal nonconforming use which has not
yet been amortized or for a premises where the amortization is being challenged
by litigation.
   (E)   No signs, advertising or other notice to the public may be given for
any premises where adult use is conducted, pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.05 LIQUOR.
   No liquor license shall be issued to a licensee or to premises where adult
use is conducted, nor shall liquor be sold, given away or allowed to be
consumed on the premises where any adult use is conducted.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.06 FEES.
   Every application for an adult use business license (whether a new license
or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied by a $750 non-
refundable application and investigation fee.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.07 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Fire Department, Building Department or other village or village
designated departments or agencies to inspect the premises of the adult use for
the purpose of ensuring compliance with the provisions of this chapter at any
time it is occupied or open for business.
   (B)   A person who operates an adult use or his or her agent or employee
violates this chapter if he or she refuses to permit the lawful inspection of
the premises at any time it is occupied or open for business.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.08 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Each license shall expire on the January 1 after it was issued
and may be renewed only by making application as provided in §
113.04.
      (2)   Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date, the
expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   If the village denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the village finds that the basis for denial of the license has been
corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.09 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The village may suspend a license for a period not to exceed, 30 days
if, after a hearing, it determines that a licensee or an employee of a
licensee:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
      (2)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult use business premises
as authorized by this chapter; or
      (3)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult use
business premises.
   (B)   If the licensee or an employee of the licensee has been found guilty
in a court of law of a violation of this chapter, no hearing is necessary prior
to suspension of the license.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.10 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The village shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in §
113.09 above occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months or if the licensee is convicted of any specified criminal activity.
   (B)   The village may revoke a license if it determines, after a hearing,
that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or management personnel has knowingly allowed
possession, use or sale of alcohol or controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or management personnel has knowingly allowed
prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee or management personnel knowingly operated the adult use
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee or management personnel has knowingly allowed any act of
sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sex act to
occur in or on the licensed premises;
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the village, county or state
for any taxes or fees past due;
      (7)   A licensee or management personnel has knowingly facilitated
another's commission of the offense of public indecency; or
      (8)   The adult use is a public nuisance as defined by statute, ordinance
or case law.
   (C)   (1)   If the village revokes a license, the revocation shall continue
for one year and the licensee shall not be issued an adult use business license
for one year from the date the revocation became effective.
      (2)   If subsequent to revocation, the village finds that the factual
basis for the revocation did not occur, the applicant may be granted a license.
   (D)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or a revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of that action in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.11 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another nor shall a
licensee operate an adult use business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address on the license.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.12 BUSINESS RECORDS.
   (A)   All adult uses shall file a verified report with the village showing
the licensee's gross receipts and amounts paid to employees during the
preceding calendar year.
   (B)   In addition, all adult uses shall maintain and retain for a period of
two years, the names, addresses and ages of all persons employed, including
independent contractors, by the licensee.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.13 LIQUOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No adult use may be issued a liquor license.
   (B)   Nor shall any establishment with a liquor license operate as an adult
use.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.14 CABARETS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   All dancing or other performances shall occur on a stage intended for
that purpose which is raised at least two feet from the level of the floor.
   (B)   No dancing or other performances shall occur closer than ten feet to
any patron. In addition, no dancer or performer shall fondle, caress or
otherwise touch any patron and no patron shall fondle, caress or otherwise
touch any dancer or performer.
   (C)   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or
performer and no dancer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
   (D)   Gratuities may be indirectly given to dancers or performers by placing
the gratuity on the stage.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.15 VIDEO VIEWING BOOTHS.
   (A)   No booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room or individual
rooms used for the viewing of motion pictures or other forms of entertainment
shall have doors, curtains or portal partitions, but all the booths, stalls or
partitioned portions or a room or individual rooms so used shall have at least
one side open to an adjacent public room so that the area inside is visible to
persons in the adjacent public room.
   (B)   All the described areas shall be lighted in such a manner that the
persons in the areas used for viewing motion pictures or other forms of
entertainment are visible from the adjacent public rooms, but the lighting
shall not be of an intensity as to prevent the view of the motion pictures or
other offered entertainment.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.16 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No adult use shall be open prior to 1:00 p.m. or after 1:00 a.m.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 113.17 INVESTIGATION.
   Any licensee hereunder shall permit law enforcement officials, free and
unlimited access to the premises during hours of operation, upon reasonable
request, for the purposes of investigating compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-6-2005)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES; GENERALLY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES; GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
130.001   Meanings of words and phrases
   
130.002   Criminal code adopted
General Offenses
   
130.015   (Reserved)
   
130.016   Resisting and/or impersonating an officer
   
130.017   Disturbing lawful assemblies
   
130.018   Unlawful assembly
   
130.019   Disturbing the peace
   
130.020   Barbed wire and electric fences
   
130.021   Admission fees; fraudulently avoiding payment of
   
130.022   Cigarettes or tobacco; sale of to minors
   
130.023   Conduct in public places
   
130.024   Aid in escape
   
130.025   Escapes
   
130.026   False pretenses
   
130.027   Renting premises for unlawful purposes
   
130.028   Aid to an offense
   
130.029   Posting bills
   
130.030   Intoxication in public
   
130.031   (Reserved)
   
130.032   Discharge of firearms or bow and arrow
   
130.033   Games in street
   
130.034   Storage of explosives
   
130.035   Throwing rocks and the like
   
130.036   Destruction of public property
   
130.037   Fortune telling and the like
   
130.038   Discarded refrigerators
   
130.039   Fireworks regulations
   
130.040   Curfew
   
130.041   Halloween
   
130.042   Disobeying a police officer
   
130.043   Possession of drug paraphernalia
   
130.044   Aggressive begging
   
130.045   Harassment through electronic communications
Sexual Offenses
   
130.055   Nudity in public places
   
130.056   Public indecency
   
130.057   Obscenity
   
130.058   Harmful material
   
130.059   Tie-in sales of obscene publications to distributors
Bodily Harm
   
130.070   Assault
   
130.071   Aggravated assault
   
130.072   Battery
   
130.073   Criminal housing management
   
130.074   Tattooing body of minor
Offenses Against Property
   
130.085   Petty theft
   
130.086   Theft of labor or services
   
130.087   Deceptive altering or sale of coins
   
130.088   Criminal damage to property
   
130.089   Criminal damage to firefighting apparatus, hydrants or equipment
   
130.090   Criminal trespass to land
   
130.091   Injuring utility wires and poles
   
130.092   Street signs; molesting of prohibited
Public Health, Safety and Decency
   
130.105   (Reserved)
   
130.106   Unlawful sale of firearms
   
130.107   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
   
130.108   Register of sales by dealer of weapons
   
130.109   Defacing identification marks of firearms
   
130.110   Mob action
   
130.111   Disorderly conduct; elements of the offense
   
130.112   Gambling
   
130.113   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer
   
130.114   Refusing to aid an officer
   
130.115   Assembling at public places and businesses
   
130.116   Litter regulations
   
130.117   Firearms on village property
   
130.118   Possession, use and/or delivery of cannabis and/or other illegal
substances
   
130.119   Drug paraphernalia
Anti-Litter
   
130.130   Definitions
   
130.131   Littering prohibited
   
130.132   Prevention of scattering
   
130.133   Upsetting or tampering with receptacles
   
130.134   Sidewalks and alleys to be kept free from litter
   
130.135   Owner to maintain private premises
   
130.136   Littering from vehicles
   
130.137   Littering from aircraft
   
130.138   Litter in parks
   
130.139   Handbills
   
130.140   Posting notices prohibited
   
130.141   Construction sites
   
130.142   Loading and unloading docks
   
130.143   Parking lots
   
130.144   Clearing of litter from open private property by the village
Trespass
   
130.155   Trespass prohibited
   
130.156   Specifically enumerated trespasses; suppression
Parental Responsibility Regulations
   
130.170   Definitions
   
130.171   Parents and guardians responsible for acts
Runaway Children
   
130.185   Runaway child defined
   
130.186   Running away prohibited
   
130.187   Harboring a runaway youth prohibited
 
   
130.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.001 MEANINGS OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the words and phrases of the Ill. Rev.
Stat., Ch. 38, §§ 2-1 through 2-11; 2-13 through 2-16; 2-19; and 2-20, as
approved, adopted and amended are hereby adopted by the village, as fully as if
set out herein.
(1994 Code, § 27-1-1)
§ 130.002 CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The Illinois Criminal Code, Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, as passed, approved and
amended by the Illinois General Assembly is hereby adopted by the village, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the
village; provided, however, the penalties as provided by this code shall apply.
(1994 Code, § 27-1-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
GENERAL OFFENSES
§ 130.015 (RESERVED).
§ 130.016 RESISTING AND/OR IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   No person in the village shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an
officer of the village or shall, without being duly authorized by the village,
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of the
village officer, or hinder, obstruct, resist or otherwise interfere with any
village officer in the discharge of the duties of his or her office, or attempt
to prevent any officer from arresting any person, either by force or by giving
notice to the person, or attempt to rescue from the officer, any person in his
or her custody, or impersonate any of the members of the police force of this
village, or maliciously or with the intention of deceiving any person, wear the
uniform of or a uniform similar to that worn by the members of the Police
Department, or use any of the signs, signals or devices adopted and used by the
Police Department.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.017 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly, funeral procession, school, any assembly met for the worship
of God or any other assembly met for a lawful purpose by any offensive
behavior, or by any disorderly conduct.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.018 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   Whenever 12 or more persons, any of them armed with clubs or dangerous
weapons, or 30 or more persons armed or unarmed are unlawfully, riotously or
tumultuously assembled in the village, it shall be the duty of each of the
village police officers to go among the persons so assembled, or as near them
as safety will permit, and in the name of the state, command them immediately
to disperse; and if they do not obey, every person refusing to disperse shall
be deemed guilty of unlawful assembly.
   (B)   When persons so unlawfully assembled neglect or refuse on command to
disperse, it shall be the duty of the police to forthwith suppress the assembly
and disperse the person composing it in such a manner as may be most expedient.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 129, § 268) (1994 Code, § 27-2-4) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.019 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall disturb the good order of society, or the peace of any
private family, or of any congregation within the village by any noise or
amusement, or by vulgar or profane language, or by any disorderly or immoral
conduct.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-5) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.020 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any barbed wire or
other such sharp, pointed fence below eight feet in height and no electrically-
charged fence shall be erected or maintained, except in an agricultural or
conservation zone district.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-6) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.021 ADMISSION FEES; FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fraudulently enter, without payment
of the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-7) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.022 CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO; SALE OF TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, buy for, or furnish any cigar
or cigarette or tobacco in any of its forms to any minor under 18 years of age
unless upon the written order of the parent or guardian.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-8) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.023 CONDUCT IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk or
public way, except as near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb
line if the standing interferes with the use of the sidewalk by other
pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to impede or interfere with another person's use
of a public way.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.024 AID IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful to rescue or attempt to rescue or to abet or encourage
the rescue or escape of any person from the custody of any officer or other
person legally having him or her in charge, or shall molest or interfere with
any officer or other person so legally having him or her in charge, or shall,
in any manner, aid, abet or encourage the rescue or the attempt to escape from
any person legally committed thereto, or shall supply or attempt to supply any
like person with any weapon or with any implement or means whereby an escape
might be affected, or with any intoxicating liquors, drugs or other article(s)
without the consent of the officer in charge.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-10) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.025 ESCAPES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense, or in lawful
custody, to escape or attempt to escape from custody.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-11) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.026 FALSE PRETENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares
or merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter public places and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he or she received
the food, goods, wares and/or merchandise.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-12) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.027 RENTING PREMISES FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use or allow to be used, any
building or property owned by him or her, for any purpose whereby riotous or
disorderly persons are gathered.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-13) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.028 AID TO AN OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein or in any manner, encourage the commission of that
offense hereby defined.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-14) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.029 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any tree, lamp
post, utility pole, hydrant or upon any private wall, door or gate without the
consent, in writing, of the owner of the wall, door or gate; provided, however,
that this section shall not prevent posting by proper village and county
officials of election signs, polling place signs and other signs or placards
necessary under the law to the conduct of elections, except they may not be
attached to a tree.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-15) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.030 INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   No person shall, in the village, be found in a state of intoxication
or drunk in any street or other public place, or shall be found drunk lying or
roving about the streets, alleys or sidewalks of this village or the private
grounds of any of the inhabitants thereof, or being drunk as aforesaid, shall
disturb the peace, order and quiet of the village, or the peace and quiet of
the citizens thereof by loud and unusual noises, disorderly conduct, indecent
language or behavior or in any other manner.
   (B)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under 21 years of
age is forbidden.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-16) (Ord. 07-14, passed 9-18-2007; Ord. 22-10, passed 9-6-
2022) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.031 (RESERVED).
§ 130.032 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR BOW AND ARROW.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm, bow and arrow or air gun in
the village or so that the bullet, arrow, missile or projectile therefrom
enters the village without written permission from the Mayor, provided that
this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law to
discharge a firearm in the performance of his or her duty.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-19) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.033 GAMES IN STREET.
   (A)   No person shall, upon any village street, fly any kite or play any
game of ball or engage in any amusement or practice having a tendency to injure
or annoy any person passing in the streets or on the sidewalks.
   (B)   It is strictly prohibited and a violation of the ordinances of the
village to engage in skateboarding, roller-blading or related activities on
public property of the village. Public property shall include all sidewalks,
public roadways, alleys and public rights-of-way, basketball courts, under
pavilions, bandstands, gazebos or other structures and all property located
within any village park or village parking lot. Nothing in this division (B)
shall be construed to prohibit skateboarding, roller-blading or related
activities on private property with the express permission of the owner of that
private property.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-20) (Ord. 07-10, passed 9-4-2007) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.034 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Nitroglycerine; dynamite and the like. No person shall have, keep,
possess or store at or in any place within the village, any nitroglycerine,
dynamite or giant powder, or any form or combination of any of them.
   (B)   Blasting powder and the like. No person shall keep, possess or store
any gun or blasting powder or any gun or explosive cotton, at or in any one
place in the village in any quantity exceeding five pounds.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 11-8-4) (1994 Code, § 27-2-21) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.035 THROWING ROCKS AND THE LIKE.
   No person in the village shall throw or cast any stone or any other missile
upon or at any building, tree or other public or private property, or at any
person in any street, avenue, alley or public place.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-22) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.036 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person in the village shall deface, destroy or in any way injure any
public property, or any other apparatus of the village.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-23) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.037 FORTUNE TELLING AND THE LIKE.
   No person in the village shall pursue the calling of a fortune teller or
practice fortune telling, soothsaying or the like and receive payment in any
manner therefor.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-24) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.038 DISCARDED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave or permit
to remain outside of any dwelling, building or other structure, or within any
unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling or other structure under his or her
or its control in a place accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or
discarded ice box, refrigerator or other container which has an airtight door
or lid, snap-lock or other locking device which may not be released from the
inside without first removing the door or lid, snap-lock or other device from
the ice box, refrigerator or container.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-25) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.039 FIREWORKS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Defined. The term FIREWORKS shall mean and include any explosive
composition, or any substance or combination of substances, or article prepared
for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary
exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion, deflagration or detonation and
shall include blank cartridges and toy cannons in which explosives are used;
the type of balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same;
firecrackers, torpedoes, sky rockets, Roman candles, sparklers, bombs or other
fireworks of like construction and any tablets or other devices containing any
explosive substance, or containing combustible substances producing visual
effects; provided, however, that the term FIREWORKS shall not include toy
pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic caps
containing twenty-five hundredths grains or less of explosive compound are
used, providing they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact
with the cap when in place for the explosion, and the toy pistol, paper or
plastic caps which contain less than twenty-five hundredths grains of explosive
mixture, excluding recoverage model rockets sold for the express use of
modelers and/or exhibitions of rocketry, the sale and use of which shall be
permitted at all times.
   (B)   Prohibition. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for
any person, firm, co-partnership or corporation to offer for sale, expose for
sale, sell at retail or use or explode any fireworks within the village limits.
   (C)   Permits. The Village Board may authorize the Village Clerk to grant
permits for the supervised public display of fireworks. No permit granted
hereunder shall be transferable. Permits may be granted hereunder to any group
of three or more adult individuals applying therefor. No permit shall be
required for supervised public displays by state or county fair associations.
   (D)   Applications. Application for permits shall be made in writing at
least 15 days in advance of the date of the display and action shall be taken
on the application at the next regular meeting of the Village Board.
   (E)   Display. Every display shall be handled by a competent individual
designated by the Police Chief and shall be of a character and so located,
discharged or fired as not to be hazardous to property or endanger any person
or persons.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-26) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.040 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday
until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   11:59 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday and until 6:00 a.m. of the
following day.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to
a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
      REMAIN. To:
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or by the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the village during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the village
during curfew hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Defenses.
      (1)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B) above that the
minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor's presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor,
or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official
school, religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and
sponsored by the village, a civic organization or another similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor; or
         (h)   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Mature Minors Act, being ILCS Ch. 750, Act 130, §§ 1 et seq.,as
amended.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) above that the
owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any responsible and other circumstances, no defense
in division (C) above is present.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 23, § 2371; Ch. 24; § 11-1-5) (Ord. 06-11, passed 7-18-
2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.041 HALLOWEEN.
   It shall be illegal for any person to engage in Halloween practice, commonly
called "Trick or Treat," by calling at the homes or dwelling places within the
village either masked or unmasked, except upon the designated day established
by the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-28) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.042 DISOBEYING A POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disobey an order of a police officer
when the order is given while the officer is discharging his or her lawful
duties as defined in this village code, and the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
(1994 Code, § 27-2-29) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.043 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Possession.
      (1)   A person who knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia with
the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis
or a controlled substance into the human body, or in preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance for that use, is guilty of an ordinance violation for
which the court shall impose a minimum fine of $750 in addition to any other
penalty prescribed for an ordinance violation. This division (A) does not apply
to a person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes or needles
under the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act, being ILCS Ch. 720, Act 635, §§
0.01 et seq.
      (2)   In determining intent under division (A) above, the trier of fact
may take into consideration the proximity of the cannabis or controlled
substances to drug paraphernalia or the presence of cannabis or a controlled
substance on the drug paraphernalia.
   (B)   Definition. For purposes of this section the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind,
other than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in Section 10 of
the Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act, being ILCS Ch. 720,
Act 646, § 10, which are intended to be used unlawfully in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance in
violation of the Cannabis Control Act, being ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et
seq., the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, being ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, Art.
I et seq., or the Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act, being
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 646, §§ 1 et seq. It includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance;
         (b)   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a
controlled substance;
         (c)   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private
home for identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
cannabis or controlled substances;
         (d)   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for
cutting cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
         (e)   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling,
or otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the
human body including, where applicable, the following items:
            1.   Water pipes;
            2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            3.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            5.   Carburetor pipes;
            6.   Electric pipes;
            7.   Air-driven pipes; chillums;
            8.   Bongs; ice pipes or chillers.
         (f)   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller,
is for use in violation of this section.
   (C)   Forfeiture. All drug paraphernalia is subject to forfeiture as
provided in the statutes of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 10-16, passed 11-4-2010)
§ 130.044 AGGRESSIVE BEGGING.
   (A)   It is illegal for any person to engage in aggressive begging in any
public place in the village, as those terms are defined herein.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGGRESSIVE BEGGING.
         (a)   To beg with intent to intimidate another person into giving
money or goods.
         (b)   AGGRESSIVE BEGGING includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
            1.   By coming within three feet of the person solicited after that
person has indicated that he or she does not wish to make a donation;
            2.   By blocking the path of a person who attempts to walk or drive
away from the panhandler;
            3.   By following a person who walks away from the panhandler;
            4.   By making unreasonable noise or offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language,
either during the solicitation or following a refusal;
            5.   By panhandling within 50 feet of any bank building, automated
teller machine, loan company, or check cashing facility;
            6.   By any statement, gesture, touching, or communication, which a
reasonable person in the situation of the person solicited would perceive to be
a threat.
      BEG. To ask for money or goods or other thing of value as charity,
whether by word, bodily gestures, signs or other means.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any road, alley lane, parking areas, sidewalk or any place,
private or otherwise, adopted to and fitted for vehicular or pedestrian travel,
that is in common use by the public with the consent, expressed or implied, of
the owner or owners, and further, any public playground, school grounds,
recreation grounds, parks, parkways, park drives, park paths, and rights-of-way
open to the use of the public.
(Ord. 21-02, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 130.045 HARASSMENT THROUGH ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   A person commits harassment through electronic communications when he
or she uses electronic communication for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   Making any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is
obscene with an intent to offend;
      (2)   Interrupting, with the intent to harass, the telephone service or
the electronic communication service of any person;
      (3)   Transmitting to any person, with the intent to harass and
regardless of whether the communication is read in its entirety or at all, any
file, document, or other communication which prevents that person from using
his or her telephone service or electronic communications device;
      (4)   Transmitting an electronic communication or knowingly inducing a
person to transmit an electronic communication for the purpose of harassing
another person who is under 13 years of age, regardless of whether the person
under 13 years of age consents to the harassment, if the defendant is at least
16 years of age at the time of the commission of the offense;
      (5)   Threatening injury to the person or to the property of the person
to whom an electronic communication is directed or to any of his or her family
or household members; or
      (6)   Knowingly permitting any electronic communications device to be
used for any of the purposes mentioned in this division (A).
   (B)   Telecommunications carriers, commercial mobile service providers, and
providers of information services, including, but not limited to, internet
service providers and hosting service providers, are not liable under this
section, except for willful and wanton misconduct, by virtue of the
transmission, storage, or caching of electronic communications or messages of
others or by virtue of the provision of other related telecommunications,
commercial mobile services, or information services used by others in violation
of this section.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 5-4-2021)
SEXUAL OFFENSES
§ 130.055 NUDITY IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person in the village shall appear in any public place in a state of
nudity, or in an indecent or lewd dress, or shall make any indecent exposure of
his or her person, or be guilty or any indecent or lewd act or behavior.
(1994 Code, § 27-3-1) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.056 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   Any person who performs any of the following acts in a public place commits
a public indecency:
   (A)   An act of sexual intercourse;
   (B)   An act of deviate sexual conduct;
   (C)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to satisfy
the sexual desire of the person; or
   (D)   A lewd fondling caress of the body of another person of either sex.
(1994 Code, § 27-3-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.057 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits obscenity when, with the
knowledge of the nature or content thereof or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver
or provide any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Obscene defined.
      (1)   A thing is obscene if, considered as a whole, its predominant
appeal is to prurient interest; that is, shameful or morbid interest in nudity,
sex or excretion, and if it goes substantially beyond customary limits of
candor in description or representation of those matters.
      (2)   A thing is obscene even though the obscenity is latent, as in the
case of undeveloped photographs.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults, except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of the people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits
of the material, or the absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material; and
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
   (D)   Prima facie evidence. The creation, purchase, procurement or
possession of a mold, engraved plat or other embodiment of obscenity, specially
adapted for reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more than three
copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an intent to
disseminate.
(1994 Code, § 27-3-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.058 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person who, with knowledge that a person is
a child; that is, a person under 18 years of age, or who fails to exercise
reasonable care in ascertaining the true age of a child, knowingly distributes
to or sends or causes to be sent to, or exhibits to or offers to distribute or
exhibit any harmful material to a child is guilty of a violation of this code.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   Material is HARMFUL if to the average person applying contemporary
standards its predominant appeal, taken as a whole, is to prurient interest;
that is, a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex or excretion, which goes
substantially beyond customary limits of candor in description or
representation of such matters and is material, the redeeming social importance
of which is substantially less than its prurient appeal.
      (2)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of whether with or without
consideration.
         KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter, or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents thereof.
         MATERIAL. Any writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall
be judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the
child to whom the material was offered, distributed, sent or exhibited, unless
it appears from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its
dissemination, distribution or exhibition that it is designed for specially
susceptible groups, in which case, the predominant appeal of the material shall
be judged with reference to its intended or probable recipient group.
      (2)   In prosecutions under this section where circumstances of
production, presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution or publicity,
indicate the material is being commercially exploited for the sake of its
prurient appeal, the evidence is probative with respect to the nature of the
material and can justify the conclusion that the redeeming social importance of
the material is, in fact, substantially less than its prurient appeal.
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any public library or any
library operated by an accredited institution of higher education from
circulating harmful material to any person under 18 years of age, provided the
circulation is in aid of a legitimate scientific or educational purpose, and it
shall be an affirmative defense in any prosecution for a violation of this
section that the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific or
educational purposes.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any parent from distributing
to his or her child any harmful material.
      (3)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown and acted in reliance
upon any of the following documents as proof of the age of a child shall be a
defense to any criminal prosecution under this section: a document issued by
the federal government or any state, county or municipal government, or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to a motor vehicle
operator's license, a registration certificate issued under the being 50 U.S.C.
App. §§ 1 et seq., or an identification card issued to a member of the armed
forces.
      (4)   In the event an advertisement of harmful material as defined in
this section culminates in the sale or distribution of the harmful material to
a child, under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his or her employees or agents, as where the order or
request for the harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone or similar
means of communication and delivery of the harmful material to the child was by
mail, freight or similar means of transport, it shall be a defense in any
prosecution for a violation of this section that the advertisement contained
the following statement or a statement substantially similar thereto, and that
the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he or she was not under
the age of 18 years and that the purchaser falsely stated that he or she was
not under the age of 18 years:
"NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to purchase the
matter herein advertised. Any person under 18 years of age who falsely states
that he is not under 18 years of age for the purpose of obtaining the material
advertised herein is guilty of a misdemeanor."
   (E)   Child falsifying age. Any person under 18 years of age who falsely
states, either orally or in writing that he or she is not under the age of 18
years, or who presents or offers to any person any evidence of age and identity
which is false or not actually his or her own for the purpose of ordering,
obtaining, viewing or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure or view any
harmful material is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1994 Code, § 27-3-4) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.059 TIE-IN SALES OF OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS TO DISTRIBUTORS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation, or any agent, officer or employee
thereof engaged in the business of distributing books, magazines, periodicals,
comic books or other publications to retail dealers, who shall refuse to
furnish to any retail dealer such quantity of books, magazines, periodicals,
comic books or other publications as such retail dealer normally sells because
the retail dealer refuses to sell, or offer for sale, any books, magazines,
periodicals, comic books or other publications which are obscene, lewd,
lascivious, filthy or indecent is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Each publication sold or delivered in violation of this subchapter
shall constitute a separate offense.
(1994 Code, § 27-3-5) Penalty, see §
130.999
BODILY HARM
§ 130.070 ASSAULT.
   (A)   A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he or she
engages in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving
a battery.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to commit an assault.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 12-1) (1994 Code, § 27-4-1) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.071 AGGRAVATED ASSAULT.
   A person commits an aggravated assault when, in committing an assault, he or
she:
   (A)   Uses a deadly weapon;
   (B)   Is hooded, robed or masked in such a manner to conceal his or her
identity;
   (C)   Knows the individual assaulted to be a teacher or other person
employed in any school and such teacher or other employee is upon the grounds
of a school or grounds adjacent thereto, or is in any part of a building used
for school purposes;
   (D)   Knows the individual assaulted to be a supervisor, director,
instructor or other person employed in any park district and the supervisor,
director, instructor or other employee is upon the grounds of the park or
grounds adjacent thereto, or is in any part of a building used for park
purposes;
   (E)   Knows the individual assaulted to be a caseworker, investigator or
other person employed by the State Department of Public Aid or a County
Department of Public Aid and that caseworker, investigator or other person is
upon the grounds of a Public Aid office or grounds adjacent thereto, or is in
any part of a building used for Public Aid purposes; or upon the grounds of a
home of a Public Aid applicant, recipient or any other person being interviewed
or investigated in the employee's discharge of his or her duties, or on grounds
adjacent thereto, or is in any part of the building in which the applicant,
recipient or other person resides or is located;
   (F)   Knows the individual assaulted to be a peace officer, or a person
summoned and directed by him or her or a correctional officer, while the
officer is engaged in the execution of any of his or her official duties;
   (G)   Knows the individual assaulted to be a firefighter engaged in the
execution of any of his or her official duties;
   (H)   Knows the individual assaulted to be the driver, operator, employee or
passenger of any transportation facility or system engaged in the business of
transportation of the public for hire and the individual assaulted is then
performing in such capacity or then using public transportation as a passenger,
or using any area of any description designated by the transportation facility
or system as a vehicle boarding, departure or transfer location;
   (I)   Or the individual assaulted is upon or about a public way, public
property or public place of accommodation or amusement; or
   (J)   Knows the individual assaulted to be an employee of the state, a
municipal corporation therein, or a political subdivision thereof engaged in
the performance of his or her authorized duties as the employee.
(1994 Code, § 27-4-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.072 BATTERY.
   (A)   A person commits battery if he or she intentionally or knowingly,
without legal justifications and by any means:
      (1)   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
      (2)   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to commit a battery.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 12-3) (1994 Code, § 27-4-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.073 CRIMINAL HOUSING MANAGEMENT.
   A person commits the offense of criminal housing management when, having
personal management or control of residential real estate, whether as a legal
or equitable owner of residential real estate or as a managing agent or
otherwise, he or she knowingly permits by his or her gross carelessness or
neglect, the physical condition or facilities of the residential real estate to
become or remain so deteriorated that the health or safety of any inhabitant is
endangered.
(1994 Code, § 27-4-4) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.074 TATTOOING BODY OF MINOR.
   (A)   Any person, other than a person licensed to practice medicine in all
its branches, who tattoos or offers to tattoo a person under the age of 21
years is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   As used in this section, to TATTOO means to insert pigment under the
surface of the skin of a human being by pricking with a needle or otherwise so
as to produce an indelible mark or figure visible through the skin.
(1994 Code, § 27-4-5) Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 130.085 PETTY THEFT.
   (A)   A person commits a petty theft when the value of the property is under
$300 and he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
      (2)   Obtains by deception, control over property of the owner;
      (3)   Obtains by threat, control over property of the owner; or
      (4)   Obtains control over stolen property, knowing the property to have
been stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce
him or her to believe that the property was stolen, and:
         (a)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit
of the property;
         (b)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such a
manner as to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit; and/or
         (c)   Uses, conceals or abandons the property, knowing the use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of the
use or benefit.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to commit a petty theft.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 16-1) (1994 Code, § 27-5-1) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.086 THEFT OF LABOR OR SERVICES.
   (A)   A person commits theft when he or she obtains the temporary use of
property, labor or services of another which are available only for hire, by
means of threat or deception or knowing that the use is without the consent of
the person providing the property, labor or services.
   (B)   A person commits theft when, after renting or leasing a motor vehicle
under an agreement in writing, which provides for the return of the vehicle to
a particular place at a particular time, he or she fails to return the vehicle
to the place within the time specified, and is thereafter served with a written
demand, or upon whom oral demand is thereafter personally made to return the
vehicle within 72 hours from the time of the service or personal communication
of the demand, and who fails to return the vehicle to any place of business of
the lessor within the period shall be punishable accordingly.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 16-3) (1994 Code, § 27-5-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.087 DECEPTIVE ALTERING OR SALE OF COINS.
   (A)   A person commits a deceptive altering of coins when he or she, in any
manner, alters any coin to increase the value of the coin to coin collectors.
   (B)   A person commits a deceptive sale of coins when he or she sells or
advertises for sale any coin he or she knows has been deceptively altered for a
higher rate of value than is indicated by the denomination of the coin.
(1994 Code, § 27-5-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.088 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   Any of the following acts by a person shall be a violation of this code:
   (A)   Knowingly damages any property of another without his or her consent;
   (B)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosive, damages property of
another;
   (C)   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another without his or her
consent;
   (D)   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent; or
   (E)   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another, without
his or her consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and
thereby intends to interfere with the use by another of the land or building.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 21-1) (1994 Code, § 27-5-4) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.089 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with
or destroy or deface any fire hydrant or any fire hose or any fire engine, or
other public or private firefighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining
to the equipment, or intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper
authorization.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 21-1.1) (1994 Code, § 27-5-5) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.090 CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO LAND.
   (A)   Whoever enters upon the land or any part thereof of another after
receiving immediately prior to entry, notice from the owner or occupant that
the entry is forbidden, or remains upon the land of another after receiving
notice from the owner or occupant to depart, commits a misdemeanor.
   (B)   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of division (A) above if he or she has been notified personally, either
orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding the entry
has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to the land or
the forbidden part thereon.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of his or her
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on the land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodation for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on the land at the request of, or by occupancy, leasing or other
agreement or arrangement with the owner or his or her agent, nor to anyone
invited by the migrant worker or other person living on the land to visit him
or her at the place he or she is so living upon the land.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 21-3) (1994 Code, § 27-5-6) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.091 INJURING UTILITY WIRES AND POLES.
   It shall be unlawful to willfully, maliciously or negligently break, deface,
injure or destroy any telegraph or telephone pole, post or wire, or any
electric light post, pole or electric conductor, wire or lamp or any other
thing connected with the same or belonging thereto, or any water main, gas
main, pipe or hydrant or lamp or lamppost, or anything belonging to or
connected therewith or with any of them.
(1994 Code, § 27-5-7) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.092 STREET SIGNS; MOLESTING OF PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, in any manner or form, to
deface, disfigure, damage or molest any of the street signs or parts thereof
located in the village.
(1994 Code, § 27-5-8) Penalty, see §
130.999
PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY AND DECENCY
§ 130.105 (RESERVED).
§ 130.106 UNLAWFUL SALE OF FIREARMS.
   A person commits the offense of unlawful sale of firearms when he or she
knowingly:
   (A)   Sells or gives any firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the
person to any person under the age of 18 years;
   (B)   Sells or gives any firearm to a person under 21 years of age who has
been convicted of a misdemeanor, other than a traffic offense or adjudged
delinquent;
   (C)   Sells or gives any firearm to any narcotic addict;
   (D)   Sells or gives any firearm to any person who has been convicted of a
felony under the laws of this or any other jurisdiction within five years from
release from the penitentiary or within five years of conviction if
penitentiary sentence has not been imposed;
   (E)   Sells or gives any firearms to any person who has been a patient in a
mental hospital within the past five years;
   (F)   Sells or gives any firearms to any person who is mentally retarded; or
   (G)   Delivers any firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person,
incidental to a sale, without withholding delivery of the firearm for at least
72 hours after application for its purchase has been made, or delivers any
rifle, shotgun or other long gun, incidental to a sale, without withholding
delivery of the rifle, shotgun or other long gun for at least 24 hours after
application for its purchase has been made. However, this division (G) shall
not apply to:
      (1)   The sale of a firearm to a law enforcement officer or a person who
desires to purchase a a firearm for use in promoting the public interest
incident to his or her employment as a bank guard, armed truck guard or other
similar employment;
      (2)   A mail order sale of a firearm to a non-resident of the state under
which the firearm is mailed to a point outside the boundaries of the state;
      (3)   The sale of a firearm to a non-resident of the state while at a
firearm showing or display recognized by the State Department of Law
Enforcement; or
      (4)   The sale of a firearm to a dealer licensed under the Federal
Firearms Act, being 18 U.S.C. Ch. 44, of the United States.
(1994 Code, § 27-6-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.107 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND FIREARM AMMUNITION.
   A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of firearms or firearm
ammunition when:
   (A)   He or she is under 18 years of age and has in his or her possession
any firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person;
   (B)   He or she is under 21 years of age, has been convicted of a
misdemeanor other than a traffic offense, or adjudged delinquent and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession;
   (C)   He or she has been convicted of a felony under the laws of this or any
other jurisdiction within five years from release from the penitentiary or
within five years of conviction if penitentiary sentence has not been imposed,
and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession;
   (D)   He or she is a narcotic addict and has any firearms or firearm
ammunition in his or her possession;
   (E)   He or she has been a patient in a mental hospital within the past five
years and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession; and/
or
   (F)   He or she is mentally retarded and has any firearms or firearm
ammunition in his or her possession.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 24-3.1) (1994 Code, § 27-6-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.108 REGISTER OF SALES BY DEALER OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   Any seller of firearms of a size which may be concealed upon the
person other than a manufacturer selling to a bona fide wholesaler or retailer,
or a wholesaler selling to a bona fide retailer, shall keep a register of all
firearms sold or given away.
   (B)   The register shall contain the date of the sale or the gift, the name,
address, age and occupation of the person to whom the weapon is sold or given,
the price of the weapon, the kind, description and number of the weapon, and
the purpose for which it is purchased and obtained.
   (C)   The seller, on demand of a peace officer, shall produce for inspection
the register and allow the peace officer to inspect the register and all stock
on hand.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 24-4) (1994 Code, § 27-6-4) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.109 DEFACING IDENTIFICATION MARKS OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   Any person who shall change, alter, remove or obliterate the name of
the maker, model, manufacturer's number or other mark of identification of any
firearms commits a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Possession of any firearm upon which any such mark shall have been
changed, altered, removed or obliterated shall be prima facie evidence that the
possessor has changed, altered, removed or obliterated the same.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 24-5) (1994 Code, § 27-6-5) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.110 MOB ACTION.
   (A)   Mob action consists of any of the following:
      (1)   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two or
more persons acting together and without authority of law;
      (2)   The assembly of two or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
      (3)   The assembly of two or more persons without authority of law, for
the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone supposed to
have been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
   (B)   Any participant in a mob action who does not withdraw on being
commanded to do so by any peace officer commits a violation of this code.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 25-1) (1994 Code, § 27-6-6) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.111 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; ELEMENTS OF THE OFFENSE.
   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such an unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues;
   (C)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district, a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of the transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that the
fire exists;
   (D)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such a place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of the transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that the bomb or explosive is
concealed in such a place;
   (E)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of the transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed; or
   (F)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 11-5-3 and Ch. 38, § 26-1) (1994 Code, § 27-6-7)
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.112 GAMBLING.
   A person commits gambling when he or she:
   (A)   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of value,
unless excepted in this code;
   (B)   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any political
nomination, appointment or election;
   (C)   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures or distributes any gambling
device;
   (D)   Contracts to have or give himself or herself or another the option to
buy or sell or contracts to buy or sell at a future time, any grain or other
commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, where it is, at
the time of making the contract, intended by both parties thereto that the
contract to buy or sell, or the option, whenever exercised, or the contract
resulting therefrom shall be settled, not by the receipt or delivery of the
property, but by the payment only of differences in prices thereof; however,
the issuance, purchase, sale, exercise, endorsement or guarantee, by or through
a person registered with the Secretary of State, pursuant to Ill. Rev. Stat.,
Ch. 121-1/2, § 137.8, or by or through a person exempt from the registration
under Ch. 121-1/2, § 137.8 of a put, call or other option to buy or sell
securities which have been registered with the Secretary of State, or which are
exempt from the registration under Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 121-1/2, § 137.8 is not
gambling within the meaning of this division;
   (E)   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument or apparatus by means
of which bets or wagers have been or are recorded or registered, or knowingly
possesses any money which he or she has received in the course of a bet or
wager;
   (F)   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or chance,
political nomination, appointment or election;
   (G)   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell or transfers
any ticket or share for any lottery;
   (H)   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell, or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record, document or
other similar device;
   (I)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game or drafts, prints or
publishes any lottery ticket or share, or any policy ticket, slip, record,
document or similar device, or any advertisement of any lottery or policy game;
or
   (J)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds or changes
in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar means; or
knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or receipt of
the information; except that nothing in this division (J) prohibits
transmission or receipt of the information for use in news reporting of
sporting events or contests.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 28-1) (1994 Code, § 27-6-8) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.113 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   A person who knowingly resists or obstructs the performance of one known to
the person to be a peace officer of any authorized act within his or her
official capacity commits an offense.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 31-1) (1994 Code, § 27-6-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.114 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   Whoever, upon command refuses or knowingly fails to reasonably aid a person
known by him or her to be a peace officer in the following commits a
misdemeanor:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 31-8) (1994 Code, § 27-6-10) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.115 ASSEMBLING AT PUBLIC PLACES AND BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DRIVE-IN BUSINESS. Any business where meals, sandwiches, cold drinks,
beverages, ice cream, food, drink or consumer services are served directly to
or are permitted to be consumed by patrons in or upon automobiles, motorcycles
or other vehicles parked on the premises.
   (B)   Declared public places. For the purpose of preserving public peace,
health and safety, the entire premises occupied by a drive-in business,
together with means of ingress or egress, are hereby declared to be a public
place:
      (1)   No person on the premises of a drive-in business shall race the
motor of any motor vehicle, needlessly bring to a sudden start or stop, any
motor vehicle, blow any horn of any motor vehicle, or cause to be made, any
loud or unseemly noise, nuisance or disturbance whereby the quiet and good
order of the premises or the neighborhood are disturbed; and
      (2)   The following acts or conduct of any persons entering a drive-in
business or premises are hereby declared to be unlawful, and any person found
guilty of any such acts shall be guilty of a violation of this subchapter:
         (a)   Entering the premises of a drive-in business with any motor
vehicle of any description and parking the vehicle and leaving the premises
(thereby leaving the vehicle parked and unoccupied), without express consent of
the owner or operator of the business, in which event, the motor vehicle shall
be subject to a parking citation or may be impounded subject to the usual
impounding charges;
         (b)   Entering the premises in or upon a motor vehicle and using the
premises for cruising, racing as a shortcut to another street or to annoy or
endanger any person or persons or other vehicle or vehicles lawfully on the
premises;
         (c)   For three or more persons to congregate on the premises and
linger or loiter at any location on the premises of any drive-in business other
than in the building or in a legally parked motor vehicle; and
         (d)   For any person who, while on the premises of any drive-in
business, in the presence or hearing of another, to curse or abuse such person
or use any violently abusive language under circumstances reasonably calculated
to provoke a breach of the peace.
   (C)   Posting sign. It shall be the responsibility of the business operator
to post on the premises in a conspicuous location, one or more signs bearing
the following legend in letters at least two inches or more in height and
readable:
"CRUISING IN OR CONGREGATING AND LOITERING OUTSIDE A MOTOR VEHICLE IS UNLAWFUL.
NO UNOCCUPIED VEHICLES MAY BE LEFT ON THE PREMISES WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF THE
OWNER."
(1994 Code, § 27-6-11) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.116 LITTER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Defined. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      LITTER. Includes garbage, refuse and rubbish as defined herein and all
other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends
to create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
      REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
      RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
non-combustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   (B)   Litter in public places. No person shall throw or deposit litter in or
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place within the village except in
public receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection or in
official village dumps.
   (C)   Litter thrown by persons in vehicles. No person, while a driver or
passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit litter upon any street or other
public place within the village, or upon private property.
   (D)   Litter on private property. No person shall throw or deposit litter on
any private property, occupied or unoccupied, open or vacant within the
village, whether owned by the person or not. See §§
93.40 through
93.46.
(1994 Code, § 27-6-12) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.117 FIREARMS ON VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to carry firearms:
      (1)   Within 25 feet of any building, park, or recreational facility
owned or occupied by the village;
      (2)   Into the police department without the consent of the chief law
enforcement officer in charge of that police department; and
      (3)   Into any meeting of the governing body of a unit of the village.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall preclude those employed by the village
or called upon by the village for assistance as police officers or patrol
officers or any law enforcement officer authorized by state or federal law from
carrying firearms anywhere in the village.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 130.118 POSSESSION, USE AND/OR DELIVERY OF CANNABIS AND/OR OTHER ILLEGAL
SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CANNABIS. Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such
plant, its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including the naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly or by extraction,
or independently by means of chemical syntheses; but shall not include the
mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made
from the seeds of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin
extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant
which is incapable of germination.
      DELIVER or DELIVERY. The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession of cannabis, with or without consideration, whether or not there is
an agency relationship.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Possession limit.
         (a)   Except if otherwise authorized by the Cannabis Regulation and
Tax Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Ch. 705, §§ 1-1 et seq. (“this Act”), for a person who
is 21 years of age or older and a resident of this state, the possession limit
is as follows:
            1   Thirty grams of cannabis flower;
            2.   No more than 500 milligrams of THC contained in cannabis-
infused product;
            3.   Five grams of cannabis concentrate; and
            4.   For registered qualifying patients, any cannabis produced by
cannabis plants grown under ILCS Ch. 410, Act 705, § 10-5(b), provided any
amount of cannabis produced in excess of 30 grams of raw cannabis or its
equivalent must remain secured within the residence or residential property in
which it was grown.
         (b)   For a person who is 21 years of age or older and who is not a
resident of this state, the possession limit is:
            1.   Fifteen grams of cannabis flower;
            2.   Two and a half grams of cannabis concentrate; and
            3.   Two hundred fifty milligrams of THC contained in a cannabis-
infused product.
         (c)   The possession limit of this section is to be considered
cumulative.
         (d)   No person shall knowingly obtain, seek to obtain, or possess an
amount of cannabis from a dispensing organization or craft grower that would
cause him or her to exceed the possession limit under this section, including
cannabis that is cultivated by a person under this Act or obtained under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 130, §§ 1
et seq.
         (e)   Cannabis and cannabis-derived substances regulated under the
Industrial Hemp Act, ILCS Ch. 505, Act 89, §§ 1 et seq., are not covered by
this Act.
      (2)   Persons under 21 years of age.
         (a)   Nothing in this Act is intended to permit the transfer of
cannabis, with or without remuneration, to a person under 21 years of age, or
to allow a person under 21 years of age to purchase, possess, use, process,
transport, grow, or consume cannabis, except where authorized by the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act or by the Community College
Cannabis Vocational Pilot Program.
         (b)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law authorizing the
possession of medical cannabis, nothing in this Act authorizes a person who is
under 21 years of age to possess cannabis. A person under 21 years of age with
cannabis in his or her possession is guilty of a civil law violation as
outlined in paragraph (a) of Section 4 of the Cannabis Control Act, ILCS Ch.
720, Act 550, § 4(a).
         (c)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit
his or her residence, any other private property under his or her control, or
any vehicle, conveyance or watercraft under his or her control to be used by an
invitee of the parent’s child or the guardian’s ward, if the invitee is under
the age of 21, in a manner that constitutes a violation of this section. A
parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted his or her residence,
any other private property under his or her control, or any vehicle, conveyance
or watercraft under his or her control to be used in violation of this section
if he or she knowingly authorizes or permits consumption of cannabis by
underage invitees.
      (3)   Identification; false identification.
         (a)   To protect personal privacy, the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation shall not require a purchaser to provide a dispensing
organization with personal information other than government-issued
identification to determine the purchaser’s age, and a dispensing organization
shall not obtain and record personal information about a purchaser without the
purchaser’s consent. A dispensing organization shall use an electronic reader
or electronic scanning device to scan a purchaser’s government-issued
identification, if applicable, to determine the purchaser’s age and the
validity of the identification. Any identifying or personal information of a
purchaser obtained or received in accordance with this section shall not be
retained, used, shared or disclosed for any purpose except as authorized by
this Act.
         (b)   A person who is under 21 years of age may not present or offer
to a cannabis business establishment or the cannabis business establishment’s
principal or employee any written or oral evidence of age that is false,
fraudulent or not actually the person’s own, for the purpose of:
            1.   Purchasing, attempting to purchase, or otherwise obtaining or
attempting to obtain cannabis or any cannabis product; or
            2.   Gaining access to a cannabis business establishment.
         Nothing in this Act may be construed to require any person or
establishment in lawful possession of property to allow a guest, client,
lessee, customer or visitor to use cannabis on or in that property, including
on any land owned, in whole or in part, or managed, in whole or in part, by the
state.
      (4)   Limitations and penalties.
         (a)   This Act does not permit any person to engage in, and does not
prevent the imposition of any civil, criminal or other penalties for engaging
in, any of the following conduct:
            1.   Undertaking any task under the influence of cannabis when
doing so would constitute negligence, professional malpractice, or professional
misconduct;
            2.   Possessing cannabis:
               a.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient
or caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
               b.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary
school, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
               c.   In any correctional facility;
               d.   In a vehicle not open to the public, unless the cannabis is
in a reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving; or
               e.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
            3.   Using cannabis:
               a.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient
or caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
               b.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary
school, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
               c.   In any correctional facility;
               d.   In any motor vehicle;
               e.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
               f.   In any public place; or
               g.   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under 21
years of age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
            4.   Smoking cannabis in any place where smoking is prohibited
under the Smoke Free Illinois Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 82, §§ 1 et seq.;
            5.   Operating, navigating or being in actual physical control of
any motor vehicle, aircraft, watercraft or snowmobile, while using or under the
influence of cannabis, in violation of Section 11-501 or Section 11-502.1 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501 or § 11-502.1),
Section 5-16 of the Boat Registration and Safety Act (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 45, §
5-16), or Section 5-7 of the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 40, § 5-7;
            6.   Facilitating the use of cannabis by any person who is not
allowed to use cannabis under this Act or the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Program Act;
            7.   Transferring cannabis to any person contrary to this Act or
the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
            8.   The use of cannabis by a person who has a school bus permit or
a commercial driver’s license while on duty.
         As used in this section, PUBLIC PLACE means any place where a person
could reasonably be expected to be observed by others. PUBLIC PLACE includes
all parts of buildings owned, in whole or in part, or leased, by the state or a
unit of local government. PUBLIC PLACE includes all areas in a park, recreation
area, wildlife area or playground owned, in whole or in part, leased or managed
by the state or a unit of local government. PUBLIC PLACE does not include a
private residence unless the private residence is used to provide licensed
child care, foster care, or other similar social service care on the premises.
         (b)   Nothing in this Act shall be construed to prevent the arrest or
prosecution of a person for reckless driving or driving under the influence of
cannabis, operating a watercraft under the influence of cannabis, or operating
a snowmobile under the influence of cannabis, if probable cause exists.
         (c)   Nothing in this Act shall prevent a private business from
restricting or prohibiting the use of cannabis on its property, including areas
where motor vehicles are parked.
         (d)   Nothing in this Act shall require an individual or business
entity to violate the provisions of federal law, including colleges or
universities that must abide by the Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act
Amendments of 1989, that require campuses to be drug free.
      (5)   Personal use of cannabis; restrictions on cultivation. Cultivating
cannabis for personal use is subject to the following limitations.
         (a)   An Illinois resident 21 years of age or older who is a
registered qualifying patient under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act may cultivate cannabis plants, with a limit of five plants that are
more than five inches tall, per household without a cultivation center or craft
grower license. In this section, RESIDENT means a person who has been domiciled
in the State of Illinois for a period of 30 days before cultivation.
         (b)   Cannabis cultivation must take place in an enclosed, locked
space.
         (c)   Adult registered qualifying patients may purchase cannabis seeds
from a dispensary for the purpose of home cultivation. Seeds may not be given
or sold to any other person.
         (d)   Cannabis plants shall not be stored or placed in a location
where they are subject to ordinary public view, as defined in this Act. A
registered qualifying patient who cultivates cannabis under this section shall
take reasonable precautions to ensure the plants are secure from unauthorized
access, including unauthorized access by a person under 21 years of age.
         (e)   Cannabis cultivation may occur only on residential property
lawfully in possession of the cultivator or with the consent of the person in
lawful possession of the property. An owner or lessor of residential property
may prohibit the cultivation of cannabis by a lessee.
         (f)   A dwelling, residence, apartment, condominium unit, enclosed,
locked space, or piece of property not divided into multiple dwelling units
shall not contain more than five plants at any one time.
         (g)   Cannabis plants may only be tended by registered qualifying
patients who reside at the residence, or their authorized agent attending to
the residence for brief periods, such as when the qualifying patient is
temporarily away from the residence.
         (h)   A registered qualifying patient who cultivates more than the
allowable number of cannabis plants, or who sells or gives away cannabis
plants, cannabis, or cannabis-infused products produced under this section, is
liable for penalties as provided by law, including the Cannabis Control Act,
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq., in addition to loss of home cultivation
privileges as established by rule.
         (i)   Residential property lawfully in possession of the cultivator or
with the consent of the person in lawful possession of the property. An owner
or lessor of residential property may prohibit the cultivation of cannabis by a
lessee.
         (j)   A dwelling, residence, apartment, condominium unit, enclosed,
locked space, or piece of property not divided into multiple dwelling units
shall not contain more than five plants at any one time.
         (k)   Cannabis plants may only be tended by registered qualifying
patients who reside at the residence, or their authorized agent attending to
the residence for brief periods, such as when the qualifying patient is
temporarily away from the residence.
         (l)   A registered qualifying patient who cultivates more than the
allowable number of cannabis plants, or who sells or gives away cannabis
plants, cannabis, or cannabis-infused products produced under this section, is
liable for penalties as provided by law, including the Cannabis Control Act, in
addition to loss of home cultivation privileges as established by rule.
   (C)   Prima facie proof. Whenever a person is present within any motor
vehicle, conveyance, vessel, house, apartment, room, shed, yard, premises, or
other area of which such person is the owner, lessee, permittee, bailee, legal
possessor or occupier at the time that a violation of the provisions of this
section occurs therein, that presence shall be prima facie evidence that the
person had knowledge of the violation.
   (D)   Medical use of cannabis. Notwithstanding anything contained in this
code to the contrary, pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Pilot Program Act, as it may be amended from time to time ("the Act"), the
immunities and presumptions set forth in the Act related to the medical use of
cannabis are hereby incorporated herein by reference to the extent applicable.
   (E)   Violation; penalty. Any person who commits the act prohibited herein
shall be guilty of a village ordinance violation and shall be punishable as
provided in § 10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-16-2016; Ord. 20-4, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 130.119 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section as follows.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the
Illinois Controlled Substances Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, Art. I et seq., as
amended from time to time, as if that definition were incorporated herein.
      DELIVER or DELIVERY. The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind,
other than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in Section 10 of
the Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act
646, § 10, which are intended to be used unlawfully in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the
Illinois Controlled Substances Act, as amended from time to time, or the
Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 646, §§
1 et seq., as amended from time to time. It includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing a controlled
substance;
         (b)   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private
home for identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
controlled substances;
         (c)   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for
cutting a controlled substance by private persons;
         (d)   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling,
or otherwise introducing cocaine into the human body, including, where
applicable, the following items:
            1.   Water pipes;
            2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            3.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            5.   Carburetor pipes;
            6.   Electric pipes;
            7.   Air-driven pipes;
            8.   Chillums;
            9.   Bongs; and
            10.   Ice pipes or chillers.
         (e)   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller,
is for use in violation of this section.
         (f)   Any other item defined as DRUG PARAPHERNALIA by the Drug
Paraphernalia Control Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 600, § 1 et seq., as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess, use or
deliver any controlled substance, or any other substance the use and/or
possession of which is illegal under any Illinois statute or this code (“the
illegal substance”). This section shall only apply to possession, use and
delivery of such substance in an amount not exceeding ten grams.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly use, suffer, permit, or
allow the violation of the provisions of this section in any motor vehicle,
conveyance, vessel, house, apartment, room, shed, yard, premises, or other area
of which that person is the owner, lessee, permittee, bailee, legal possessor
or occupier.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit his or her
residence to be used by an invitee of the parent’s child or the guardian’s ward
in a manner that constitutes a violation of this section. A parent or guardian
is deemed to have permitted his or her residence to be used in violation of
this section if he or she knowingly authorizes, enables, or permits the use to
occur by failing to control access to the residence.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person to remain in any motor vehicle,
conveyance, vessel, house, apartment, room, shed, yard, premises, or other area
when that person knows, or reasonably should know, that one or more other
persons located in the motor vehicle, conveyance, vessel, house, apartment,
room, shed, yard, premises, or other area are in possession of any controlled
substance prohibited by Illinois statute, or other illegal substance.
   (C)   Sale, offering for sale, and delivery prohibited.
      (1)   Any person who keeps for sale, offers for sale, sells, or delivers
for any commercial consideration any item of drug paraphernalia commits a
violation of this section, for which a maximum fine of $750 for each such item
shall be imposed.
      (2)   Any store, place, or premises from which or in which any item of
drug paraphernalia is kept for sale, offered for sale, sold, or delivered for
any commercial consideration is declared to be a public nuisance.
   (D)   Possession of drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   A person who knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia with
the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing a
controlled substance into the human body, or in preparing a controlled
substance for that use, is guilty of a violation of this section for which the
court shall impose a maximum fine of $750 for each such violation. This section
does not apply to a person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic
syringes or needles under the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act, ILCS Ch.
720, Act 635, §§ 0.01 et seq.
      (2)   A person who knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia with
the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing a
controlled substance into the human body, is guilty of a violation of this
section for which the court shall impose a fine of not more than $750 for each
such violation.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-16-2016; Ord. 20-3, passed 1-21-2020)
ANTI-LITTER
§ 130.130 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designed
for navigation or for flight in the air. The word AIRCRAFT includes helicopters
and lighter-than-air powered craft and balloons.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE.
      (1)   A container of water-tight construction with a tight-fitting lid or
cover capable of preventing the escape of contents within.
      (2)   The RECEPTACLES shall have handles or other means for safe and
convenient handling and be of a size or sufficient capacity to hold all litter
generated between collection periods and shall be in compliance with the
regulations promulgated.
   CONSTRUCTION SITES. Any private or public property upon which repairs to
existing buildings, construction of new buildings or demolition of existing
structures is taking place.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed matter of
literature which is not delivered by United States mail, including, but not
limited to those which:
      (1)   Advertise for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
      (2)   Direct attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Direct attention to or advertise any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCK. Any dock space or area used by any moving
vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping and transporting goods, wares,
commodities and persons located on or adjacent to any stream, river or land.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property including, but not limited to, vacant land or
any land, building or other structure designed or used for residential,
commercial, business, industrial, institutional or religious purposes, together
with any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox
and other structure appurtenant thereto.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, lakes, rivers, watercourses or fountains and any and all public
parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
   PUBLIC RECEPTACLES. Any receptacles provided by or authorized by the
village.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-1)
§ 130.131 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit any litter within the village, except in public
receptacles, or in authorized private receptacles for collection, or in any
duly licensed disposal facility.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.132 PREVENTION OF SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent litter from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.133 UPSETTING OR TAMPERING WITH RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall upset or tamper with a public or private receptacle designed
or used for the deposit of litter or cause or permit its contents to be
deposited or strewn in or upon any public place or private premises.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-4) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.134 SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS TO BE KEPT FREE FROM LITTER.
   Persons owning, occupying or in control of any public place or private
premises shall keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-5) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.135 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of any private premises shall, at all
times, maintain the premises free of litter.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of private premises shall, if public
receptacles are unavailable, maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-6) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.136 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, while the operator of or passenger in a vehicle, shall
deposit litter upon any public place or private premises.
   (B)   No person shall drive or move any loaded or partly loaded truck or
other vehicle within the village unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded
as to prevent any part of its load, contents or litter from being blown or
deposited upon any public place or private premises. Nor shall any person drive
or move any vehicle or truck within the village, the wheels or tires of which
carry onto or deposit in any public place or private premises, mud, dirt,
sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-7) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.137 LITTERING FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit any litter within
the village.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-8) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.138 LITTER IN PARKS.
   (A)   No person shall deposit litter in any park within the village except
in receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon
any other public place or private premises.
   (B)   Where receptacles are not provided, all the litter shall be removed
from the park by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed
of elsewhere in a lawful manner.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.139 HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Public places. No person shall deposit or sell any handbill in or upon
any public place, provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful on any
public place for any person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver, any handbill to any person willing to accept it.
   (B)   Private premises.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   No person shall deposit or unlawfully distribute any handbill in
or upon private premises, except by handing or transmitting any handbill
directly to the occupant of the private premises.
         (b)   Provided, however, that in case of private premises which are
not posted against the receiving of handbills or similar material, that person,
unless requested by anyone upon the premises not to do so may securely place
any handbill in such a manner as to prevent the handbill from being deposited
by the elements upon any public place or other private premises, except
mailboxes may not be so used when prohibited by federal postal law or
regulations.
      (2)   Exemptions for newspapers and political literature. The provisions
of this section shall not apply to the distribution upon private premises only
of newspapers or political literature; except that newspapers and political
literature shall be placed in a manner so as to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or other private premises.
   (C)   Placing handbills on vehicles. No person shall deposit any handbill in
or upon any vehicle unless the occupant of a vehicle is willing to accept it.
   (D)   Cleanup. It shall be the responsibility of any person distributing
handbills to maintain the area which he or she is utilizing free of any litter
caused by or related to the handbill distribution.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-10) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.140 POSTING NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or
device, calculated to attract the attention of the public upon any public
place, except as may be authorized or required by law.
   (B)   No person, except the owner or tenant, shall post any such notice on
private property, without the permission of the owner or tenant.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-11) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.141 CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the job site so that litter
will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
public place or other private premises.
   (B)   Litter or other debris, including dirt and mud, deposited as the
result of normal construction process upon any public place or private
premises, shall be removed by the contractor.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-12) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.142 LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCKS.
   The person owning, operating or in control of a loading or unloading dock
shall maintain private receptacles for collection of litter, and shall, at all
times, maintain the dock area free of litter in such a manner that litter will
be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public
place or other private premises.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-13) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.143 PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Litter receptacles required.
      (1)   Any public place or private premises containing any provision for
parking vehicles shall be equipped with litter receptacles in compliance with
this section.
      (2)   Those premises shall include, but not be limited to such places as
shopping centers, outdoor theaters, drive-in restaurants, gasoline service
stations, apartment developments, parking lots and any other place where
provision is made for vehicles to stop or park in a designated area for any
purpose.
   (B)   Number of receptacles. All premises having parking lots shall provide,
in an easily accessible location, a minimum of one refuse container for every
50 parking spaces.
   (C)   Specifications.
      (1)   Litter receptacles shall have tightfitting lids or tops and shall
be weighted or attached to the ground or other fixed structures as necessary to
prevent spillage.
      (2)   A minimum container size of 20 gallons or 75.7 liters shall be
used.
   (D)   Cleanliness. Premises used for the purpose designated herein shall be
kept in a litter-free condition and all litter shall be removed periodically
from the receptacles.
   (E)   Obligation to use receptacles. It shall be the duty and obligation of
all persons using parking areas to use the litter receptacles as herein above
provided for the purposes intended and it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to deposit any litter upon any such parking lot.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-14) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.144 CLEARING OF LITTER FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY BY THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   The procedure for the removal of litter from private premises and the
charging of expense thereof as a lien upon the property to be collected shall
be in accordance with the state statutes.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Utilities and the Police Chief shall be
responsible for the implementation of this enforcement program.
(1994 Code, § 27-7-15) Penalty, see §
130.999
TRESPASS
§ 130.155 TRESPASS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to commit a
trespass within this municipality upon either public or private property.
(1994 Code, § 27-8-1) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.156 SPECIFICALLY ENUMERATED TRESPASSES; SUPPRESSION.
   Without constituting any limitation upon the provisions of §
130.155 above, any of the following acts by any person, firm or corporation
shall be deemed included among those that constitute trespasses in violation of
the provisions of §
130.155 above, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or
from time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this
subchapter, the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as follows, to-
wit:
   (A)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another, including
any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or entry or in violation
of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any owner or
occupant thereof;
   (B)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the making
of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
   (C)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
   (D)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made without
the consent of the person having the right to leave any vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having that right.
(1994 Code, § 27-8-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REGULATIONS
§ 130.170 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTS OF VANDALISM AND SIMILAR OFFENSES. Includes any of the following acts:
      (1)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently or knowingly damaging or
destroying or defacing any property within the village, whether the property is
owned by the state, county or governmental body or owned by any private person,
firm, partnership or association;
      (2)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly, by means of fire or explosive
device, damaging, debasing or destroying any property of another person;
      (3)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently or knowingly starting a fire
on land of another person without his or her consent;
      (4)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly depositing on the land or in
the building of another person, without his or her consent, any stink bomb, or
any offensive smelling compound and thereby interfering with the use and
occupancy by another of the land or building; or
      (5)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly, and without authority,
entering into or obtaining control over any building, house trailer, motor
vehicle, aircraft or watercraft or any part thereof of another person without
his or her consent.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN. Includes a foster parent, a person appointed guardian of a
person or given custody of a minor by a circuit court of this state, but does
not include a person appointed guardian only to the estate of a minor, or
appointed guardian, or given custody of a minor under the Illinois Juvenile
Court Act, being ILCS Ch. 705, Act 405, §§ 1-1 et seq.
   MINOR. Includes a person who is above the age of 11 years, but not yet 18
years of age.
   PARENT. Includes the lawful father and mother of a minor child, whether by
birth or adoption.
   PROPERTY. Includes any real estate including improvements thereon, and
tangible personal property.
(1994 Code, § 27-9-1)
§ 130.171 PARENTS AND GUARDIANS RESPONSIBLE FOR ACTS.
   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with the
parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary to have failed to exercise proper parental responsibility and the
minor shall be deemed to have committed the acts described above with the
knowledge and permission of the parent or guardian, in violation of this
subchapter, upon the occurrence of the events described in divisions (A), (B)
and (C) below:
   (A)   An unemancipated minor residing with the parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property,
or shall have incurred non-judicial sanctions from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt of a violation of any ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property;
   (B)   The parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned from the
Police Department of the village, following the adjudication or non-judicial
sanctions; and
   (C)   If, at any time within one year following receipt of notice set forth
in (B) above, the minor is either adjudicated to be in violation of any
ordinance, law or statute, as described in (A) above, or shall have incurred
non-judicial sanctions from another official agency resulting from an admission
of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or statute as described in (A)
above.
(1994 Code, § 27-9-2)
RUNAWAY CHILDREN
§ 130.185 RUNAWAY CHILD DEFINED.
   A RUNAWAY CHILD is defined as a person under 17 years of age who voluntarily
absents himself or herself from his or her parent, guardian or legal custodian
without the permission of that parent, guardian or legal custodian.
(1994 Code, § 27-10-1)
§ 130.186 RUNNING AWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person under the age of 17 years to
voluntarily absent himself or herself from his or her parent, guardian or other
legal custodian without the permission of that parent, guardian or other legal
custodian.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer who takes a minor into custody for violation
of this section shall immediately make a reasonable attempt to notify the
parent or other person legally responsible for the minor's care or the person
with whom the minor resides that the minor has been taken into custody and
where the minor is being held. Further, the law enforcement officer shall
without unnecessary delay take the runaway minor to the court or to the place
designated by rule or order of court or state law for the reception of juvenile
offenders. As an optional disposition, the law enforcement officer may release
the runaway minor upon the minor's agreement to perform public service work for
a period not to exceed 90 days. Such an optional disposition shall be available
to the juvenile officer only upon the written consent of the minor and his or
her parent, guardian or other legal custodian.
(1994 Code, § 27-10-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.187 HARBORING A RUNAWAY YOUTH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor, hide, conceal or aid a
person defined as a runaway in §
130.185 above for the purpose of prevention of or delaying the apprehension of
the runaway or the return of the child to his or her parent, guardian or legal
custodian or to knowingly conceal information that prevents or delays the
apprehension of the runaway or the return of the child to his or her parent,
guardian or legal custodian.
   (B)   It shall not be a defense that any person hiding a runaway did not
know that the child was a person defined in §
130.185 above.
(1994 Code, § 27-10-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violators of §
130.030(B) shall be subject to a fine of no less than $100 and no more than
$500.
   (C)   Violators of §
130.033(B) shall be subject to a fine of no less than $75 and no more than
$200.
   (D)   A person who violates a provision of §
130.040 is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day during
which the violation is committed, continued or permitted. Each offense, upon
conviction, is punishable by a fine as established by §
10.99, or as amended.
   (E)   The penalty for violation of §
130.187 shall be from $10 to $250 fine for the first conviction and $250 to
$500 for each subsequent violation thereafter.
(1994 Code, § 27-10-3)
(Ord. 06-11, passed 7-18-2006; Ord. 07-10, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 07-14, passed
9-18-2007)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING AND MAINTENANCE CODES
      
151.   ENTERPRISE ZONE
      
152.   FLOOD PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
153.   MOBILE HOUSING
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING AND MAINTENANCE CODES
Section
2015 International Building Code Adopted
   
150.01   Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Fire limits established
   
150.03   Office of Building Inspector; Deputy Inspector
   
150.04   Duties of Building Inspector
   
150.05   Appointment
   
150.06   Building permit fees and expiration
   
150.07   Minimum living space
   
150.08   Rebuilding or reconstruction of dwellings
Property Maintenance Code
   
150.20   General provisions
   
150.21   Definitions
   
150.22   Administration and enforcement
   
150.23   Right to appeal
   
150.24   Premises conditions
   
150.25   Exterior of structures
   
150.26   Interior of structure
   
150.27   Light, ventilation and space requirements
   
150.28   International Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.29   International Mechanical Code adopted
   
150.30   Fire safety requirements
   
150.31   Responsibilities of persons
Electrical Code
   
150.45   Rules and regulations
   
150.46   Permits
   
150.47   Powers of Electrical Inspector
Cross-reference:
   International Fuel and Gas Code adopted,
95.052
2015 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The 2015 International Building Code, as amended and published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as the Building Code
of the village for the control of buildings and structures within the village
and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions, and terms of the “2015
International Building Code,” excluding, however, the appendices contained
therein, are hereby incorporated herein by reference, in haec verba, and
adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter.
   (B)   The foregoing notwithstanding, the following regulations shall
supplement the “2015 International Building Code,” (“IBC”) in the event that
the IBC is silent or incomplete or where the IBC is in conflict with the
following:
      (1)   Minimum number of exits. There shall not be less than two
independent exit ways at extreme ends of each independent dwelling on one-
family and two-family dwellings.
      (2)   Emergency escape. Every sleeping room below the fourth story shall
have at least one operable window approved for emergency egress or rescue. The
units must be operable from the inside opening without the use of separate
tools. Where windows are provided as a means of egress or rescue, they shall
have a sill height not more than 44 inches above the floor. All egress or
rescue windows from sleeping rooms must have a minimum net clear opening of 5.7
square feet. The minimum net clear opening height dimension shall be 24 inches.
The minimum net clear opening width dimensions shall be 20 inches.
      (3)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall conform with the relevant
provisions of the 2015 International Building Code. Every person owning land on
which there is situated a swimming pool, which contains 18 inches or more of
water in depth at any point, shall erect and maintain thereon a minimum of four
feet in height fence completely surrounding all above or below ground level
swimming pools by surrounding the property or pool area sufficient to make such
body of water inaccessible to small children. Such enclosure, including gates
therein, must not be less than four feet above the underlying ground or
otherwise made inaccessible from the outside to small children.
      (4)   Minimum back yard. Every separate garage, auxiliary building,
swimming pool or shed, both permanent or temporary, shall be placed no less
than three feet from the rear alley boundary line.
      (5)   Fences. All fences six feet or less in height shall not require a
building permit. All fences over six feet in height will require a building
permit to be issued. All wood fences over six feet in height shall be required
to be offset from the boundary lines by five feet from all side property
boundary lines and five feet set back off the rear alley property boundary
line. Any wooden fence constructed in a manner allowing light and ventilation
to pass through it shall not be subject to the offset and setback requirements
of this division.
(1994 Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. 17-09, passed 7-18-2017)
§ 150.02 FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   The fire limits in the village as defined and described in the "Basic
National Building Code" are hereby established as follows: "the corporate
limits of this village."
(1994 Code, § 6-1-2)
§ 150.03 OFFICE OF BUILDING INSPECTOR; DEPUTY INSPECTOR.
   There is hereby created the office of Building Inspector for the village.
(1994 Code, § 6-1-3)
§ 150.04 DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector shall be charged with the duty of issuing building
permits, the inspection of plumbing connections, the wiring of homes,
supervising of all building work done on all structures and the inspection and
supervision of all electrical work and work pertaining to gas fixtures on all
buildings and residences.
(1994 Code, § 6-1-4)
§ 150.05 APPOINTMENT.
   The Office of Building Inspector shall be filled by appointment by the
Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Village Board at the first meeting in
May for a term of not more than one year. Any appointment made after the
municipal year has begun shall be for a term of the remainder of that fiscal
year.
(1994 Code, § 6-1-5)
§ 150.06 BUILDING PERMIT FEES AND EXPIRATION.
   The fees for building permits, including electrical permits, shall be as set
forth in this section. Building permits issued under this section shall be
valid for a period of six months from the date of issuance. If the work
authorized by the permit is not commenced within six months from the date of
issuance or is not completed within the same period, the permit shall expire
and become null and void. A new permit application and payment of fees shall be
required for any work to be recommenced or completed.
   (A)   Permit fees shall be as follows:
Main building or structure (the building or structure serving the main
purpose of the property)                                                $250
   *plus $0.10 per square foot on commercial or industrial buildings
Detached garages and building additions                                  
   Without electrical                                                $75
   With electrical                                                   $100
Accessory building and structures                                        
   Without electrical                                                $75
   With electrical                                                   $100
Radio and television antennas, mast and/or tower types                  $50
(including satellite dishes)
Fireplaces (all types put in separately)                                $75
V.A. and F.H.A. requested inspections                                   $50
Swimming pools                                                           
   Above-ground pool                                                 $50
   Below-ground pool                                                 $100
Mobile home rates                                                       $100
Rewiring and upgrading wiring                                           $75
Demolition fees                                                         $500
Construction trailer permit (maximum of 90 days)                        $100
   Electrical inspections                                             
   Permit                                                            $75
Each additional inspection after the first inspection fails             $50
 
   (B)   The fees for electrical permits shall read as follows:
      (1)   A $75 permit shall be required prior to any upgrade of service or
change of service made to any existing installation of electrical wiring or
equipment.
      (2)   A $75 permit shall be required prior to any upgrade of service and
re-wiring to any existing installation of electrical equipment.
   (C)   Other electrical permit fees.
Residential (new construction)                                                 
   Single family up to 200 amp                                             $75
   Single family up to 400 amp                                             $85
   Single family over 400 amp                                              $100
Residential                                                                   $45
   (minor alterations up to 30 outlets and max. 200 amp service one visit)
Services                                                                       
   Up to 200 amps                                                          $50
   201 to 400 amps                                                         $75
   401 to 1,200 amps                                                       $100
   Over 1,200 amps                                                         $140
Feeders and panel boards                                                       
   200 amps or less                                                        $20
   Up to 400 amps                                                          $25
   Up to 1,200 amps                                                        $30
   Over 1,200 amps                                                         $35
Transformer, vault enclosures and substations                                  
   Up to 200 Kva                                                           $75
   Up to 500 Kva                                                           $100
   Up to 1,000 Kva                                                         $150
   Over 1,000 Kva                                                          $200
Rough wire                                                                     
   One to 100 outlets                                                      $45
   Each additional 20                                                      $10
   Minimum inspection fee                                                  $55
Signaling systems                                                              
   Residential                                                             $30
   115 volt smoke detector with battery                                    $15
   Other than residential                                                  $75
Pools, spas and hot tubs                                                       
   Above ground, one visit                                                 $50
   In ground, two visits                                                   $100
Manufactured homes                                                             
   One visit                                                               $75
Heating and air conditioners                                                   
   30 Kw or less                                                           $50
   Over 30 Kw                                                              $60
   Each additional unit                                                    $25
Signs                                                                          
   First sign                                                              $35
   Each additional sign                                                    $10
Motors, generators, transformers                                               
   One to 50 HP or Kw, first unit                                          $50
   Each additional unit                                                    $15
   51 to 100 HP or Kw                                                      $65
   Each additional unit                                                    $20
Final wiring                                                                   
   One to 100 outlets                                                      $45
   Each additional 20                                                      $10
 
   (D)   A $25 non-refundable building permit application fee will be charged
to all applicants upon initiating a building permit application. If the permit
is granted, the application fee will be applied to the total building permit
fee.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 4-13-2021; Ord. 23-04, passed 3-4-2023)
§ 150.07 MINIMUM LIVING SPACE.
   As of July 28, 1988, all new residential construction within the boundaries
of the village shall have the following minimal living space.
   (A)   Single story residence: minimum of 950 square feet of living space;
and
   (B)   Multi-level residence: minimum of 1,450 square feet of living space.
(1994 Code, § 6-1-7) (Ord. 88-13, passed 7-28-1988)
§ 150.08 REBUILDING OR RECONSTRUCTION OF DWELLINGS.
   As of August 11, 1988, the rebuilding or reconstruction of dwellings
partially (less than 50%) destroyed by causes not within the control of the
owners of the dwellings shall not be considered "new residential construction"
and shall not be subject to the minimum living space provision of §
150.07 above. Further the rebuilding or reconstruction of dwellings completely
destroyed (50% or more) by causes not within the control of the owners of the
dwellings shall not be considered "new residential construction" and shall not
be subject to the minimum living space provision of §
150.07 above, provided that the rebuilding or reconstruction commences within
one year of the date of the loss and is completed within one year after
commencement of reconstruction or rebuilding.
(1994 Code, § 6-1-8) (Ord. 88-15, passed 8-11-1988)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.20 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Title; purpose.
      (1)   These regulations shall be known as the "Property Maintenance Code"
hereinafter referred to as the "Property Maintenance Code" or "this code".
      (2)   This chapter is to establish minimum acceptable standards, premises
and facilities in the village, which must be maintained in existing buildings,
structures, premises and facilities to protect health, safety and general
welfare.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-1)
   (B)   Scope. This subchapter is to protect the public health, safety and
welfare in the village neighborhoods, by:
      (1)   Establishing minimum exterior maintenance standards for all
nonresidential structures;
      (2)   Establishing minimum exterior maintenance standards for residential
structures;
      (3)   Establishing minimum maintenance standards for basic equipment and
facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating and sanitation for all
residential dwelling units and structures;
      (4)   Fixing the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants of
all structures; and
      (5)   Providing for administration, enforcement and penalties.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-2)
   (C)   Liberal interpretation required. This subchapter shall be construed
liberally and justly to ensure public health, safety and welfare insofar as
they are affected by the maintenance of the structures and premises.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-3)
   (D)   Effect on existing ordinances; remedies.
      (1)   This subchapter establishes minimum requirements for the initial
and continued occupancy and use of all structures and premises and does not
replace or modify requirements otherwise established by ordinance which may be
additional or more stringent for the construction, repair, alteration or use of
structures, equipment or facilities.
      (2)   The provisions in this subchapter shall not be construed to prevent
the enforcement of other ordinances and regulations which prescribe standards
other than are provided herein.
      (3)   The provisions in this subchapter shall not be deemed to abolish or
impair existing remedies of the village or its officers or agencies relating to
the removal or demolition of any buildings which are deemed to be dangerous,
unsafe and unsanitary.
      (4)   This subchapter shall not affect violations or any other
ordinances, codes or regulations existing prior to the effective date hereof,
and any such violations shall be governed and shall continue to be punishable
to the full extent of the law under the provisions of those ordinances, codes
or regulations in effect at the time the violation was committed.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-4)
   (E)   Code enforcement guidelines.
      (1)   Buildings; construction codes.
         (a)   Any repairs or alterations to a structure or changes of use
therein, which may be caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this
subchapter shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of
the Building Code now in existence.
         (b)   Any repair, alteration or replacement of structural elements of
a building, which may be required by the provisions of these guidelines, shall
be done in accordance with the applicable sections of the Building Code,
Electrical Code, Plumbing Code or other applicable code or ordinance of this
jurisdiction.
      (2)   Zoning Code. The provisions of these guidelines shall not permit
the abridgement or violation of the Zoning Code of this municipality, if any.
      (3)   Conflicts. Specific provisions of these guidelines indicate their
precedence over the requirements of other related codes and ordinances. Where
specific precedence is not indicated, the requirements of the most restrictive
code or ordinance prevail.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-5)
(Ord. 98-05, passed 5-19-1998; Ord. 03-07, passed 4-3-2003; Ord. 14-04, passed
4-15-2014; Ord. 20-15, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 150.21 DEFINITIONS
   (A)   General. Whenever the words MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING, RESIDENCE BUILDING,
DWELLING UNIT, LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE, LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE UNIT, or
PREMISES are used in this chapter, they shall be construed as though they were
followed by the words, "or any part thereof".
      (1)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms
shall, for the purpose of this chapter, have the meanings indicated in this
section.
      (2)   Interchangeability. Words used in the present tense include the
future; words in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the
singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
      (3)   Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are noted in this chapter
and are defined in the Building, Plumbing and/or Mechanical Codes, they shall
have the same meanings ascribed to them as in those codes.
      (4)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined under the provisions
of this chapter or under the provisions of the Building, Plumbing and/or
Mechanical Codes, they shall have ascribed to them their ordinarily accepted
meanings or such as the context herein may imply.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-19)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPROVED. As applied to a material, device or method of construction, by
the Code Official under the provisions of this chapter, or approved by other
authority designated by law to give approval in the matter in question.
      BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partly below and partly
above grade, and having at least one-half its height above grade. See CELLAR.
      BUILDING CODE. The Building Code officially adopted by the legislative
body of this jurisdiction, or such other code as may be officially designed by
the legislative body of the jurisdiction for the regulation of construction,
alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition, use location, occupancy and
maintenance of buildings and structures.
      BUILDING INSPECTOR. The official designated by the jurisdiction to
enforce building, zoning or similar laws, or a duly authorized representative.
      CELLAR. That portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade and having at least one-half its height below grade.
      CENTRAL HEATING. The heating system permanently installed and adjusted so
as to provide the distribution of heat to all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
water closet compartments from a source outside of these rooms.
      CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this chapter, or any duly authorized representative.
      CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for use or occupancy.
      CONDEMNATION. The act of judicially condemning.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a residential structure which are
arranged, designed, used or intended for use by one family plus not more than
four lodgers for living or sleeping purposes, and which include complete
kitchen facilities permanently installed.
      DWELLINGS.
         (a)   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant
where meals are provided for compensation to three or more persons but not more
than ten, who are not members of the keeper's family.
         (b)   DORMITORY. Any building containing 11 or more rooming or
dormitory units. A dormitory also provides a public restroom, a laundry room,
foyer, storage space for out-of-season articles of the residents, public lounge
and recreational space for the use of residents.
         (c)   DORMITORY ROOM. A habitable room used or intended to be used by
four or more individuals for sleeping or study purposes, excluding bathrooms,
toilet rooms, laundries, pantries, foyers, communicating corridors, closets,
storage space and stairwells.
         (d)   HOTEL. An establishment containing lodging accommodations
designed for use by transients, travelers or temporary guests, with no
provisions in such accommodations for cooking in any individual room or suite.
Facilities provided may include maid service, laundering of linen used on the
premises, telephone and secretarial or desk service.
         (e)   MULTI-FAMILY APARTMENT BUILDING. A building or portion thereof,
designed or altered for occupancy by three or more families living
independently of each other.
         (f)   ONE-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling unit designed for the occupancy
of one family.
         (g)   ROOMING HOUSE. A building in which sleeping quarters (but not
meals or cooking facilities) are provided by pre-arrangement for compensation
on a weekly or longer basis for three or more persons.
         (h)   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing two separate dwelling
units with not more than five lodgers or boarders per family.
      ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The official designated herein or otherwise charged
with the responsibilities of administering this chapter, or the official's
authorized representative.
      EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS. The open space on the premises and on adjoining
property under the control of owners or operators of the premises.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poison spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other approved pest elimination.
      FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption
(excluding servants), or a group of not more than three (including servants and
roomers) who need not be related by blood, marriage or adoption, living
together and maintaining a common household, but not including sororities,
fraternities or other similar organizations.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility
space, and similar areas are not considered HABITABLE SPACE.
      HOTEL. See DWELLINGS.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or
premises of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
      LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit possession or occupancy of a
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building or structure by a person who
shall be legal owner or not be the legal owner of record thereof, pursuant to a
written or unwritten lease, agreement or licensee, or pursuant to a recorded or
unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
      LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE. A building with more than three guest spaces
where lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement,
but not open on a daily, overnight or per meal basis to transient guests.
      LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE UNIT. A habitable room used or intended to be
used by up to three individuals for sleeping purposes, excluding bathrooms,
toilet rooms, laundries, pantries, foyers, communicating corridors, closets,
storage space and stairwells.
      MAINTENANCE. Conformance of a building and its facilities to the chapter
under which the building was constructed.
      MOTEL. A group of attached or detached buildings containing individual
sleeping or living units, designed for or used temporarily by automobile
tourists or transients, with garage attached or parking space conveniently
located to each unit, including auto courts, motels, motor lodges or other
similar type uses.
      MULTI-FAMILY (MULTIPLE) DWELLINGS. See DWELLINGS.
      OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age (including owner or operator)
living and sleeping in a dwelling unit or having actual possession of the
dwelling or rooming unit.
      OPENING AREA. The part of a window or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which are let or offered for occupancy.
      OWNER. Any person, agent, firm or corporation having a legal or equitable
interest in the property.
      PERSON. Includes a corporation or co-partnership as well as an
individual.
      PLUMBING. The practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension and alteration of all piping fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances within the scope of the Plumbing Code.
      PLUMBING FIXTURE. A receptacle or device which is either permanently or
temporarily connected to the water distribution system of the premises, and
demands a supply of water therefrom; or discharges used water, liquid-borne
waste materials or sewage either directly or indirectly to the drainage system
of the premises; or which requires both a water supply connection and a
discharge to the drainage system of the premises.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures therein.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. Includes the following:
         (a)   The physical condition, or use of any premises regarded as a
public nuisance at common law;
         (b)   Any physical condition, use or occupancy of any premises or its
appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations and unsafe fences
or structures;
         (c)   Any premises which have unsanitary sewerage or plumbing
facilities;
         (d)   Any premises designated as unsafe for human habitation or use;
         (e)   Any premises which are manifestly capable of being a fire
hazard, or are manifestly unsafe or insecure as to endanger life, limb or
property;
         (f)   Any premises from which the plumbing, heating and/or facilities
required by this Code have been removed, or from which utilities have been
disconnected, destroyed, removed or rendered ineffective, or the required
precautions against trespassers have not been provided;
         (g)   Any premises which are unsanitary, or which are littered with
rubbish or garbage, or which have an uncontrolled growth of weeds; or
         (h)   Any structure or building that is in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration or decay; faulty construction; overcrowded; open, vacant or
abandoned; damaged by fire to the extent as not to provide shelter, in danger
of collapse or failure and is dangerous to anyone on or near the premises.
      RENOVATION. A building and its facilities made to conform to present day
minimum standards of sanitation, fire prevention and safety.
      RESIDENCE BUILDING. A building in which sleeping accommodations or
sleeping accommodations and cooking facilities as a unit are provided; except
when classified as an institution under the Building Code.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage,
and the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
      SANITARY. Rules and conditions of health; especially, of absence of dirt
and agents of infection or tending to promote health and healthful conditions.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached or something having location on the ground, including a
fence or free-standing wall. A sign, billboard or other advertising medium,
detached or projecting, shall be construed to be a STRUCTURE.
      SUPPLIED. Installed, furnished or provided by the owner or operator.
      VENTILATION. The process of supplying and removing air by natural or
mechanical means to or from any space.
         (a)   Ventilation by power-driven devices.
         (b)   Ventilation by opening to outer air through windows, skylights,
doors, louvers or stacks without wind-driven devices.
      WORKING DAYS. Those days during which the Village Hall is open for
business.
      WORKMANLIKE. Whenever the words "workmanlike state of maintenance and
repair" are used in this chapter, they shall mean that the maintenance and
repair shall be made in a reasonably skillful manner.
      YARD. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building extending
along the entire length of the street, or rear or interior lot line.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-20)
§ 150.22 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Duties and powers of code official. The Code Official shall enforce
all provisions of this code relative to the maintenance of structures and
premises, except as may otherwise be specifically provided for by other
regulations.
      (1)   Notices and orders. The Code Official shall issue all necessary
written notices and orders to abate illegal or unsafe conditions to ensure
compliance with the chapter requirements for the safety, health, and general
welfare of the public.
      (2)   Coordination of enforcement. Inspection of premises, the issuance
of written notices and orders, and enforcement thereof shall be the
responsibility of the Code Official so charged by the village. Whenever, in the
opinion of a Code Official initiating an inspection under this chapter, it is
deemed necessary or desirable to have inspections by any other department, the
Official shall make reasonable effort to arrange for the coordination of such
inspections so as to minimize the number of visits by inspectors, and to confer
with the other departments for the purpose of eliminating conflicting orders
before any are issued. A department shall not, however, delay the issuance of
any emergency order which it determines must be ordered.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-22)
   (B)   Right of entry. If any owner, occupant or other person in charge of a
structure subject to the provisions of this chapter refuses, impedes, inhibits,
interferes with, restricts or obstructs entry and free access to any part of
the structure where inspection authorized by this chapter is sought, the
administrative authority may seek, in a court of competent jurisdiction, an
order that the owner, occupant or other person in charge cease and desist with
the interference.
      (1)   Access of owner or operator. Every occupant of a nonresidential
structure or premises shall give the owner or operator thereof, or agent or
employee, access to any part of the structure or its premises at reasonable
times for the purpose of making inspections as are necessary to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Credentials. The Code Official or the Code Official's authorized
representative shall disclose proper credentials of their respective office for
the purpose of inspecting any and all buildings and premises in the performance
of duties under this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-23)
   (C)   Notice to owner or to persons responsible. Whenever the Code Official
determines that there has been a violation of this subchapter or has reasonable
grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, notice shall be given to the
owner or the person or persons responsible in the manner described below.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-24)
   (D)   Form of notice. The notice prescribed in division (C) above shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate for identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why the notice is
being issued; and
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time for the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-25)
   (E)   Service of notice. The service shall be deemed to be properly served
upon such owner if a copy thereof is delivered to the owner personally; or by
leaving the notice at the usual place of abode, in the presence of someone in
the family of suitable age and discretion who shall be informed of the contents
thereof; or known address with return receipt requested; or if the certified or
registered letter is returned with receipt showing that it has not been
delivered, by posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place in or about the
structure affected by such notice.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-26)
§ 150.23 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Petition. Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in
connection with enforcement of any provision of this chapter, or of any rule or
regulation adopted pursuant thereto, may request and shall be granted a hearing
on the matter before the Board; provided that the person shall file, in the
office of the Board, a written petition requesting the hearing and containing a
statement of the grounds therefor within 20 days after the day the notice was
served.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-30)
   (B)   Appeals Board. In order to protect existing structures in the
jurisdiction by vigorous enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, there
shall be and is hereby created a Code Appeals Board, hereafter referred to as
the Board. The Appeals Board for this chapter shall be the Zoning Board.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-31)
   (C)   Vote. The Board shall hear all appeals relative to the enforcement of
this chapter, and by a concurring vote of the majority of its members may
reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may modify, the decision appealed from,
and shall make that order or determination as in its opinion ought to be made.
Failure to secure the concurring votes shall be deemed a confirmation of the
decision of the Code Official.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-32)
   (D)   Financial interest. A member of the Board shall not participate in any
hearings or vote on any appeal in which that member has a direct or indirect
financial interest, or is engaged as a contractor, or is engaged in the
preparation of plans and specifications, or in which that member has any
personal interest.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-33)
   (E)   Records. The Secretary of the Board shall keep a record of each
meeting so that the records show clearly the basis for each decision made by
the Board.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-34)
   (F)   Meetings, quorum. All meetings of the Board shall be held at the call
of the Chairperson and at such times as the Board may determine, provided that
the establishment of the meeting date, time and location are consistent with
the overall intent of this division (F) and are in accordance with the State
Open Meetings Act, being ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq., and other
applicable state laws.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-35)
§ 150.24 PREMISES CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Scope of regulations. The provisions of this subchapter shall govern
the minimum conditions for maintenance of exterior property, premises and
structures. Premises shall comply with the conditions herein prescribed insofar
as they are applicable.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-37)
   (B)   Responsibility of owner. The owner of the premises shall maintain such
structures and premises in compliance with these requirements. A person shall
not occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy or use permits
which do not comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-38)
   (C)   Vacant structures and land. All vacant structures and premises thereof
or vacant land shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary
condition as provided herein so as not to cause a blighting problem or
adversely affect the public health or safety.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-39)
   (D)   Sanitation. All exterior property areas and premises shall be
maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary condition free from any accumulation
of rubbish or garbage.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-40)
   (E)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained so
as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within any
structure located thereon.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-41)
   (F)   Insect and rat control. An owner of a structure or property shall be
responsible for the extermination of insects, rats, vermin or other pests in
all exterior areas of the premises, except that the occupant shall be
responsible for the extermination in the exterior areas of the premises of a
single-family dwelling. Whenever infestation exists in a shared or public parts
of the premises of other than a single-family dwelling, extermination shall be
the responsibility of the owner.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-42)
   (G)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, swimming pools, jacuzzis, fences and walls, shall be maintained
structurally sound and in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-43)
§ 150.25 EXTERIOR OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Maintenance required. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained
structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to health and safety
of the occupants and so as to protect the occupants from the environment.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-45)
   (B)   Structural members. All supporting structural members of all
structures shall be kept structurally sound, free of deterioration and
maintained capable of safely bearing the dead and live loads imposed upon them.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-46)
   (C)   Exterior surfaces. Every foundation, exterior wall, roof and all other
exterior surfaces shall be maintained in a manner which will comply with the
following standards.
      (1)   Foundations, exterior walls and roofs. Every foundation, exterior
wall and roof of every building shall be substantially weather-tight, and
rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be kept
free of holes or breaks, and loose or rotting boards, timbers, bricks, stones
and other structural material; and shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
      (2)   Exterior surfaces. All exterior surfaces of any building shall be
reasonably capable of withstanding the effects of the elements and decay. Any
exterior surface which is deteriorated, decaying, disintegrating or which has
lost its capability to reasonably withstand the effects of the elements shall
be repaired.
      (3)   Windows and exterior doors. Every window, storm window, exterior
door, exterior storm door, basement or cellar door and hatchway shall be
substantially weather-tight, wind-tight, water-tight and rodent proof; shall be
equipped with all appropriate hardware, shall be capable of being easily opened
unless designed to be fixed.
      (4)   Decorative features. All cornices, entablatures, belt courses,
corbels, terra cotta trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall
be maintained in good repair and proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
      (5)   Protective railings. Any handrails, guardrail or other types of
protective railings required to be constructed or installed under any provision
of the municipal code of the village or which have otherwise been constructed
and installed shall be maintained in good repair.
      (6)   Chimneys. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks and similar
appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe, sound and in good repair.
      (7)   Stairs and porches. Every stair, porch, balcony, ramp and all
appurtenances attached thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and
capable of supporting the loads to which it is subjected and shall be kept in
sound conditions and in good repair.
      (8)   Roof drainage. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent rain
water from causing dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion
of the building. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a
nuisance to owners or occupants of adjacent premises, or that creates a public
nuisance.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-47)
   (D)   Window and door frames. Every window, door and frame shall be
constructed and maintained in such relation to the adjacent wall construction
so as to exclude rain as completely as possible, and to substantially exclude
wind from entering the same dwelling or structure.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-48)
§ 150.26 INTERIOR OF STRUCTURE.
   The interior of a structure and its equipment shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and in sanitary condition so as not to pose a threat
to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or visitors, and to protect
the occupants from the environment.
   (A)   Lead-based paint. Lead-based paint with a lead content of more than
0.5% shall not be applied to any interior or exterior surface of a dwelling,
dwelling unit or child care facility, including fences and outbuildings at
these locations. Existing interior and exterior painted surfaces of dwelling
units and child care facilities that contain an excess of 0.5% lead shall be
removed or covered with paneling or other suitable covering approved by the
Code Official.
   (B)   Sanitation. The interior of every structure shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition free from any accumulation of rubbish, refuse or
garbage. Rubbish, garbage and other refuse shall be properly disposed.
   (C)   Storage. Garbage or rubbish shall not be allowed to accumulate or be
stored in public halls or stairways.
   (D)   Insect and rat harborage. All structures shall be kept free from
insect and rat infestation, and where insects or rats are found, they shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be injurious to
human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
re-infestation.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-51)
§ 150.27 LIGHT, VENTILATION AND SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Scope. The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for the light, ventilation and space for the occupancy
of a structure. All light, ventilation and space conditions shall comply with
the requirements herein prescribed insofar as they are applicable.
      (2)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and
maintain such light and ventilation and space conditions in compliance with
these requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or let to
another for occupancy or use any premises which do not comply with the
following requirements of this subchapter.
      (3)   Alternative devices. In place of the means for natural light and
ventilation herein prescribed, alternative arrangement of windows, louvers or
other methods and devices that will provide the equivalent minimum performance
requirements shall be permitted when complying with the Building Code.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-53)
   (B)   Light. All spaces or rooms shall be provided sufficient light so as
not to endanger health and safety.
      (1)   Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least one
window of approved size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The
minimum total window area, measured between stops, for every habitable space
shall be 8% of the floor area of the room except in kitchens when artificial
light is provided in accordance with the provisions of the Building Code. In
one-family dwelling units, rooms and spaces without openings to the outdoors
may be ventilated through an adjoining room. In one-family dwelling units, the
unobstructed opening to the adjoining room shall be at least 14 square feet.
      (2)   Common halls and stairways. Every common hall and stairway in every
building, other than one and two-family dwellings, shall be adequately lighted
at all times with an illumination of at least a 60-watt standard incandescent
light bulb or equivalent.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-54)
   (C)   Ventilation.
      (1)   All spaces or rooms shall be provided sufficient natural or
mechanical ventilation so as not to endanger health and safety. Where
mechanical ventilation is provided in lieu of the natural ventilation, such
mechanical ventilating systems shall be maintained in operation during the
occupancy of any structure portion thereof.
      (2)   When part of the air provided by a mechanical ventilation system is
recirculated, the portion or volume of air recirculated shall not be
recirculated to a different residential space or occupancy of dissimilar use
from which it is withdrawn.
         (a)   Toilet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall
comply with the light and ventilation requirements for habitable spaces as
required by §
150.21, except that a window shall not be required in bathrooms or water closet
compartments equipped with an approved mechanical ventilation system. One-
family dwelling units built prior to 1978 are not required to comply with the
regulation.
         (b)   Cooking facilities. Unless approved through the certificate of
occupancy (see Zoning Code), cooking shall not be permitted in any sleeping
room or dormitory unit, and a cooking facility or appliance shall not be
permitted to be present in a sleeping room or dormitory unit.
         (c)   Clothes dryer exhaust. Clothes dryer venting systems shall be
independent of all other systems and shall be vented in accordance with the
manufacturer's recommendations.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-55)
   (D)   Dwelling unit limitations.
      (1)   Separation on units. Dwelling units shall be separate and apart
from each other. Sleeping rooms shall not be used as the only means of access
to other sleeping rooms or habitable spaces.
      (2)   Privacy. Hotel units, lodging units and dormitory units shall be
designed to provide privacy, and be separate from other adjoining spaces.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-56)
   (E)   Space requirements.
      (1)   Area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for sleeping
purposes shall have adequate floor space.
      (2)   Water closet accessibility. In all dwelling units other than a one-
family dwelling every room used as a bedroom shall have access to at least one
water closet without passing through another room used as a bedroom.
      (3)   Prohibited use. Kitchens, non-habitable spaces and public spaces
shall not be used for sleeping purposes.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-57)
§ 150.28 INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document entitled “The International Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition”
published by the International Code Council, 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country
Club Hills, Illinois, one copy of which is on file at the Building Division of
the Community Development Department of the Village of Sugar Grove, is hereby
adopted as the “2018 Plumbing Code” for the village for regulating the design,
construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair,
location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of every
building or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such
buildings or structures in the village as provided; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said “International
Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition” are adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in the code.
(1994 Code, §§ 6-2-59 – 6-2-63) (Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 150.29 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document entitled “The International Mechanical Code, 2012
Edition” published by the International Code Council, 4051 West Flossmoor Road,
Country Club Hills, Illinois, one copy of which is on file at the Building
Division of the Community Development Department of the Village of Sugar Grove,
is hereby adopted as the “2012 Mechanical Code” for the village for regulating
the design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation,
alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or
maintenance of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or
attached to such buildings or structures in the village as provided; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
“International Mechanical Code, 2012 Edition” are adopted and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in the code.
(1994 Code, §§ 6-2-66 – 6-2-68) (Ord. 2022-04, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 150.30 FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum fire
safety facilities and equipment to be provided. All structures shall be
constructed and maintained to prevent and avoid fire hazards, and in a manner
conducive to fire safety. All fire safety facilities and equipment shall comply
with the requirements herein prescribed insofar as they are applicable.
      (2)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and
maintain such fire safety facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements and the Fire Prevention Code. A person shall not occupy as owner-
occupant or let to another for occupancy or use any premises which does not
comply with the following requirements of this section.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-70)
   (B)   Means of egress.
      (1)   General. A safe, continuous and unobstructed means of egress shall
be provided from the interior of a structure to the exterior at a street, or to
a yard, court or passageway leading to a public open area at grade.
      (2)   Direct exit. Every dwelling unit shall have access directly to the
outside or to an exit access corridor that leads directly to the outside.
      (3)   Locked doors. All doors located in the required means of egress
shall be readily operable from the inner side without the use of keys. Exits
from multiple-family dwelling units, hotel units, lodging houses and dormitory
units shall not lead through other such units, or through toilet room or rooms.
“Dead-bolt” locks are allowable provided the key is in place at all times and
structure is occupied.
      (4)   Fire escapes. All required fire escapes shall be maintained in
working condition and structurally sound.
      (5)   Dual egress. Every residential building exceeding one story in
height above grade, not including basements, shall be provided with not less
than two approved independent exits from each floor above the first floor,
fully accessible to each occupant on the floor or provide safety ladders for
each bedroom above the first floor.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-71)
   (C)   Accumulation and storage. Waste, refuse or other materials shall not
be allowed to accumulate in stairways, passageways, doors, windows, fire
escapes or other means of egress.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-72)
   (D)   Fire doors. All required fire resistance rated doors or smoke barriers
shall be maintained in good working order, including all hardware necessary for
the proper operating thereof. The use of door stops, wedges and other
unapproved hold-open devices is prohibited.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-73)
   (E)   Smoke detectors required. Smoke detectors shall be provided outside of
each sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of the bedrooms and on each
additional story of the dwelling, including basements and cellars but not
including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwellings or dwelling units
with split levels, a smoke detector need be installed only on the upper level,
provided the lower level is less than one full story below the upper level,
except that if there is a door between levels then a detector is required on
each level. In multiple dwelling units a smoke detector shall be installed in
all common hallways or rooms. All detectors shall be connected to a sounding
device or other detectors to provide, when actuated, an alarm which will be
audible in all sleeping areas. All detectors shall be approved and listed and
shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
   (F)   (1)   The Village of South Roxana hereby adopts the NFPA 101: Life
Safety Code (2015 edition) as the minimum fire safety standard for all new and
existing business buildings within the village.
      (2)   Compliance with the OSFM's Fire Prevention and Safety Rules (Title
41 Ill. Adm. Code 100) is required for all business structures.
      (3)   The most stringent code, whether local or state, shall apply.
      (4)   The village shall comply with the Illinois Capital Development
Board (CDB) requirements effective January 1, 2025.
      (5)   This adoption shall enhance and not override existing local fire
safety requirements under this section and § 150.31.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-74) (Ord. 25-08, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 150.31 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERSONS.
   (A)   General. The provisions of this section shall govern the
responsibilities of persons for the maintenance of structures, and the
equipment and premises thereof. The owner has the ultimate legal responsibility
to comply with this division (A).
(1994 Code, § 6-2-76)
   (B)   Sanitary condition.
      (1)   Cleanliness. Every occupancy of a structure or part thereof shall
keep that part of the structure or premises thereof which that occupant
occupies, controls or uses in a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a
dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall maintain, in a clean and
sanitary condition, the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises
thereof.
      (2)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure or part thereof
shall dispose of all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner.
      (3)   Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure or part thereof
shall dispose of garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in
garbage disposal facilities, or if the facilities are not available, by placing
it in approved garbage storage containers.
(1994 Code, § 6-2-77)
   (C)   Extermination.
      (1)   Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for
extermination, if needed within the structure prior to renting or leasing the
structure.
      (2)   Multiple occupancy. Every owner, agent or operator of two or more
dwelling units or multiple occupancies, or non-residential structures and
rooming houses, shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rats
or others in the public or shared areas of the structure and premises.
   (D)   Water service. The owner and or tenant of any structure shall ensure
no person shall occupy the structure without active water, sewer services, and
trash services.
   (E)   Occupants. The owner of any structure or tenant shall not rent,
sublease, or allow occupants to remain in, sleep, or reside in any structure
not designed for human occupancy or in violation of the village zoning code.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 11-10-1994; Ord. 22-07, passed 8-2-2022)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.45 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Pursuant to the recommendation of the Committee on Utilities of the village,
there are hereby adopted as the safe and practical standards for the
installation, alteration and use of electrical equipment in the village.
   (A)   The rules and regulations of the National Fire Protection Association
as contained in the 2008 National Electrical Code, together with all amendments
and supplements contained therein, are hereby adopted by reference, in haec
verba, by the village as its Electrical Code, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this chapter, excluding, however, any provisions that may
otherwise be in conflict with the village code.
   (B)   The rules and regulations regarding the installation, alteration and
use of electrical equipment as adopted by the electricity supply company
supplying the village and filed with the Illinois Commerce Commission and as
approved by the Village Board. A copy of the code and the last mentioned rules
and regulations are now on file in the office of the Electrical Inspector, if
any, and the provisions of the code and the rules and regulations are hereby
made a part of this code.
   (C)   The following exceptions and modifications not clearly indicated in
the 2008 National Electrical Code or in the rules and regulations of the
electricity supply company are found necessary to meet conditions and shall
prevail in case of conflict thereof with any other provisions of this code or
other ordinances of the village.
      (1)   All electric wiring in new buildings and in basements of existing
buildings shall be installed in rigid conduit or thin wall conduit except that
all additional wiring in existing buildings shall be installed in rigid or thin
wall conduit where possible. Where not exposed to the moisture of the weather,
BX flexible metallic conduit or approved metallic conduit or approved metal
molding may be used. Where it is necessary to use flexible metallic conduit or
BX it shall terminate in a box in the basement to be located not more than
three feet from where the conduit or BX enters the basement. Range cable is
permitted for range installations.
      (2)   All service shall be in rigid or thin wall metal conduit on the
outside of the building and firmly fastened to the building. Entrance service
cable may be used where practical and necessary.
      (3)   All wiring for gas station pumps, lights and signs shall be lead
covered wire, Type T or approved underground wire. All gas pumps or islands
shall be wires on separate circuits and all connections shall terminate in
vapor-proof fittings, and pump boxes used for junction shall not be buried in
the ground.
      (4)   All services for dwellings with more than two circuits shall not be
smaller than three No. 6 wires and 60 ampere service switch.
      (5)   Services for commercial buildings using 4,000 watts or more shall
not be smaller than three No. 6 wires and 60 ampere service switch. All circuit
wiring in commercial buildings shall not be less than No. 12 R.C. (rubber
coated) wire. Overload protection or limiting fuses shall be installed in
installations over 4,000 watts. House wiring or installations over 4,000 watts
will be fused according to N.E.C. standards.
      (6)   Wiring for kitchens, laundries or utility rooms in all residences
shall be on separate circuits using not smaller than No. 12 R.C. wire.
      (7)   All underground wiring must be protected with metal or fiber
covering placed at least 24 inches below grade. Lead covering will not be
considered sufficient protection.
      (8)   All motors permanently installed shall be wired on a separate
circuit with externally operated fused switch as near to the motor as possible.
      (9)   All transformers used for neon inside window signs or borders shall
be indoor type and shall be enclosed in a grounded metal box.
         (a)   Outside neon signs or borders shall be installed with outside-
type transformers, weatherproof type.
         (b)   All leads from the metal boxes shall be brought out through
porcelain-glass or other bushings of equal dielectric strength.
         (c)   All high-tension wiring for the electric service shall meet the
requirements as covered in the Electrical Code; except not to exceed three feet
of Greenfield flexible conduit may be used in making connections to
transformers.
         (d)   All high-tension connections for window signs and borders shall
be installed on glass insulators not less than one and one-half inches long and
securely fastened to the window frame, except where wires are hanging free in
air and of necessity across the window.
         (e)   All connections from high-tension cables to sign shall be
covered with glass insulators of equal dielectric properties and strength.
      (10)   System or common grounding conductors shall be attached to the
street side of water meters, using not less than No. 6 wire firmly stapled to
beams, joist or supporting walls from box to connection of ground. A drive
ground may be used inside or outside the building, but directly-below the
service switch or meter box if no other means of grounding is available. When
clamping ground conductor to driven ground or water pipe, an approved ground
clamp must be used which provides both mechanical and electrical connection.
(1994 Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 17-11, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 150.46 PERMITS.
   (A)   All persons, firms, companies or corporations shall, before beginning
any installation, alteration or change of electrical wiring or equipment in the
village, obtain a permit for the work.
   (B)   Permits for installation, alteration and use of electrical equipment
shall be issued upon receipt of an application thereof, made out on a printed
form furnished by the Clerk, and evidence of performance bond for the work. The
fee is to be paid in advance as herein provided for.
   (C)   Permits shall be posted in plain view, inside the building near the
entrance switch, or inside the service switch when installed.
   (D)   Electrical work that failed to pass inspection shall require payment
of an additional $30 fee to cover each subsequent inspection.
   (E)   No permit will be issued to an electrical contractor for 12 months, if
the electrical contractor’s work has failed to pass four electrical inspections
in the previous one year.
   (F)   The electrical contractor or other person performing the installation,
alteration or use of electrical equipment shall be present when the inspection
takes place.
(1994 Code, § 6-3-2) (Ord. 06-01, passed 1-17-2006; Ord. 14-12, passed 10-7-
2014)
§ 150.47 POWERS OF ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The provisions for inspections of work authorized by permits by the
village shall not be construed as prohibiting the inspection of any electrical
wiring or apparatus now or whenever installed, whenever the electrical
inspector shall determine that public safety requires.
   (B)   No inspection fee shall be charged for this inspection, but in case it
is determined necessary to replace any wrong or defective wiring or apparatus
upon inspection, a permit in like manner as the original shall be obtained.
   (C)   Wherever the electrical inspector shall find any electrical wires or
apparatus not conforming to the rules and regulations set forth in this or any
other electrical code, the electrical inspector is hereby empowered to stop
work on any installation being made by any person, firm or corporation to whom
or which a license or a permit has not been granted, or who or which has not
paid the inspection fees, or who or which does not otherwise comply with the
terms of this subchapter.
   (D)   The Building Inspector shall be ex-officio Electrical Inspector.
(1994 Code, § 6-3-3)
CHAPTER 151: ENTERPRISE ZONE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Description
   
151.02   Qualifications
   
151.03   Enterprise zone designation
   
151.04   Term and effect
   
151.05   Sales tax deductions
   
151.06   Property tax abatement
   
151.07   Shopsteading and homesteading
   
151.08   Zone management
   
151.09   Management organization
   
151.10   Zone Administrator
   
151.11   Authority to execute agreement
Special Agreements
   
151.25   Enterprise zone agreements
   
151.26   Binding on village
   
151.27   Applicability
   
151.28   Building codes/public safety
   
151.29   Effective date
   
151.30   Reimbursement
Cross-reference:
   Zoning, see
Chapter 155
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DESCRIPTION.
   As established by the units of government and approved by the State
Department of Commerce and Community Affairs (DCCA).
(1994 Code, § 10-1-1) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.02 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The village hereby declares and affirms that the zone area is qualified for
designation as an Enterprise Zone in accordance with the provisions of the
State Enterprise Zone Act, being ILCS Ch. 20, Act 655, §§ 1 et seq., and
further affirms that:
   (A)   The zone area is a contiguous area;
   (B)   The zone area comprises a minimum of one-half square mile and not more
than ten square miles in total area;
   (C)   The zone area is a depressed area;
   (D)   The zone area satisfies any additional criteria established by the
State Department of Commerce and Community Affairs;
   (E)   On November 18, 1985, a public hearing was conducted within the zone
area on the question of whether to create the zone, what local plans, tax
incentives and other programs should be established in connection with the
zone, and what the boundaries of the zone should be, and that public notice was
given in at least one newspaper of general circulation within the zone area,
not more than 20 days nor less than five days before the hearing; and
   (F)   It addresses a reasonable need to encompass portions of more than one
municipality and adjacent unincorporated areas of the county.
(1994 Code, § 10-1-2) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.03 ENTERPRISE ZONE DESIGNATION.
   The area described in §
151.01 above, is hereby designated as an Enterprise Zone, subject to the
approval of DCCA, in accordance with law.
(1994 Code, § 10-1-3) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.04 TERM AND EFFECT.
   This chapter shall be and become effective for a period of 20 years, unless
sooner rescinded or as otherwise amended, on the date that the area described
in §
151.01 above, is designated an Enterprise Zone by DCCA, in accordance with law.
(1994 Code, § 10-1-4) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.05 SALES TAX DEDUCTIONS.
   Each retailer whose place of business is within the corporate limits of the
village and who makes a sale of building materials to be incorporated into real
estate located in the Enterprise Zone by remodeling, rehabilitation or new
construction, may deduct receipts from the sales when calculating the tax
imposed pursuant to the Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, being ILCS Ch.
35, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.; provided, however, that the remodeling,
rehabilitation or new construction is of the nature and scope for which a
building permit is required and has been obtained. The incentive provided by
this section shall commence the first day of the calendar month following the
month in which the Enterprise Zone is designated and certified, and shall
continue for the term of the Enterprise Zone.
(1994 Code, § 10-1-5) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.06 PROPERTY TAX ABATEMENT.
   The village authorizes and directs the County Clerk to abate ad valorem
taxes imposed upon real property, located within the Enterprise Zone area, upon
which new improvements have been constructed or upon which existing
improvements have been renovated or rehabilitated, subject to the following
conditions:
   (A)   The improvements or renovations are of the scope and nature for which
a building permit is required and has been obtained;
   (B)   Any abatement of taxes on any parcel shall not exceed the amount
attributable to the construction of the improvements and the renovation or
rehabilitation of existing improvements on the parcel;
   (C)   The abatement shall be allowed only for commercial, industrial or
manufacturing property located within the zone area;
   (D)   The abatement shall be at the rate of: 100% of the value of the
improvements for the assessment year in which the improvements are made, and
the three assessment years immediately following the year in which the
improvements are made; and
   (E)   The abatement shall continue and be in full force as set forth in this
section for any improvements which are completed within the term of the
Enterprise Zone as specified in §
151.04 above of this enactment.
(1994 Code, § 10-1-6) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.07 SHOPSTEADING AND HOMESTEADING.
   (A)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 20, Act 655, § 10 of the State Enterprise Zone
Act, being ILCS Ch. 20, Act 655, §§ 1 et seq., the village hereby establishes
an urban shopstead program and an urban homestead program. Under the urban
shopsteading program, the village may sell to a designated zone organization a
structure or portion thereof it owns for a sum not to exceed $100. The
designated zone organization shall agree to renovate or remodel the property to
meet the standards and level of maintenance stated in the agreement between the
designated zone organization and the village. The designated zone organization
may sell or lease the structure to commercial or industrial businesses pursuant
to the procedures set forth in the sales agreement between it and the village.
The designated zone organization may retain the structure in whole or in part
for its own use. Any proceeds derived from the use, lease or sale of the
property shall accrue to the designated zone organization.
   (B)   Under the urban homestead program, the village may sell to an
individual a residence or any portion thereof that the village owns within the
zone area for a sum of $100. The individual must agree to renovate or remodel
the property to meet the standards and level of maintenance stated in the sales
agreement between the individual and the village, and the individual must live
in the residence for seven years. At the end of the seven-year period, the
village shall assign title to the property over to the individual, provided
satisfactory improvements to the property have been made pursuant to the
agreement with the village.
   (C)   The urban homestead program and the urban shopstead program shall be
subject to rules and guidelines issued by the Zone Administrator, with the
approval of the management organization, provided the rules and guidelines are
not inconsistent with the Act.
(1994 Code, § 10-1-7) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.08 ZONE MANAGEMENT.
   Upon designation as an Enterprise Zone by the State Department of Commerce
and Community Affairs, a management organization comprised of the Chairperson
of the County Board, the Mayors of Alton and Wood River, and the Village
Presidents of East Alton, Hartford, Roxana and South Roxana will be formed.
This organization will be the governing body of the Enterprise Zone and will be
responsible for all decisions within the zone. The Zone Administrator will be
the individual who will be responsible for the day-to-day implementations
within the zone and will be the liaison between the Management Organization,
the Economic Development Committee and the State Department of Commerce and
Community Affairs.
(1994 Code, § 10-1-8) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.09 MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Zone Administrator shall recommend to the management organization
one or more organizations that qualify as designated zone organizations (DZO)
under the provisions of the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act.
   (B)   Upon approval by the management organization, for a term of years set
by the management organization, the DZO may:
      (1)   Provide a contract for provisions of services including, but not
limited to crime watch patrols within zone neighborhoods; volunteer day care
centers; or, other types of public services as provided by ordinance or
regulation;
      (2)   Provide a forum for business, labor and government action on
Enterprise Zone innovations;
      (3)   Receive title to publicly-owned land;
      (4)   Solicit and receive contributions to improve the quality of life in
the zone area; and
      (5)   Perform other functions as the management organization may deem
appropriate, not inconsistent with the State Enterprise Zone Act, being ILCS
Ch. 20, Act 655, §§ 1 et seq.
(1994 Code, § 10-1-9) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.10 ZONE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The position of "Zone Administrator" is hereby created.
   (B)   The Zone Administrator shall be the County Board Chairperson, who is
an officer or employee of the County of Madison.
   (C)   The duties of the Zone Administrator shall be performed in addition to
the regular duties of the position of Board Chairperson held by this person.
   (D)   It shall be the power and duty of the Zone Administrator to:
      (1)   Supervise the implementation of the provisions of this chapter and
the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act;
      (2)   Act as a liaison between the County of Madison, the Cities of Alton
and Wood River, the Villages of Hartfod, Roxana and South Roxana, the State
Department of Commerce and Community Affairs, designated zone organization(s);
and other state, federal and local agencies, whether public or private;
      (3)   Conduct an ongoing evaluation of the Enterprise Zone Program and
submit the evaluative reports on at least an annual basis to the Mayor of South
Roxana and the zone management organization;
      (4)   Promote the coordination of the relevant programs, including, but
not limited to, housing, community and economic development, small business,
financial assistance and employment training within the Enterprise Zone;
      (5)   Recommend qualified designated zone organizations to the management
organization; and
      (6)   Have other duties as specified by either the Mayor of South Roxana
or the management organization.
(1994 Code, § 10-1-10) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.11 AUTHORITY TO EXECUTE AGREEMENT.
   The chief elected official of the village shall have and is hereby given
authority to execute an intergovernmental agreement between the Cities of Alton
and Wood River, the Villages of East Alton, Hartford, and Roxana and Madison
County, which will indicate their willingness and desire to participate in the
Enterprise Zone Program and which will set out the criteria for cooperation,
participation and management of the Enterprise Zone.
(1994 Code, § 10-1-11) (Ord. 86-5, passed 3-13-1986; Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-
1987)
SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
§ 151.25 ENTERPRISE ZONE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor, subject to approval of the Board of Trustees, may enter
into agreements with the present or anticipated owners or developers of real
estate situated within any Enterprise Zone established within the village.
   (B)   The agreements may include any of the following terms:
      (1)   Waivers or modifications of water and/or sewer tap-on fees and
requirements as established by ordinance at the time the agreements are
executed; provided that the agreements may not waive or modify any water or
sewer user rates or fees in effect from time to time;
      (2)   Waivers or modifications of any other fees, taxes, restrictions,
licenses, regulations or requirements which are established solely by village
ordinance and/or solely under the control or discretion of the village
authorities and which are in effect at the time of execution of the agreements
and/or in the future;
      (3)   Provisions making the agreements contingent upon certain zoning
changes and other zoning requirements or conditions;
      (4)   Special provisions regarding parking areas or lots, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, streets, alleys or traffic control; and/or
      (5)   Special provisions regarding other village-supplied/controlled
services, except that any user fees or rates may not be reduced from those
imposed upon other property owners of the same classification within the
village.
(1994 Code, § 10-2-1) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.26 BINDING ON VILLAGE.
   Any such agreements which have been approved by the Village Board of
Trustees shall be binding upon all succeeding Mayors, Trustees and other
village officers and authorities.
(1994 Code, § 10-2-2) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.27 APPLICABILITY.
   The agreements shall apply only to new construction or rehabilitation,
restoration or renovation of existing structures or improvements.
(1994 Code, § 10-2-3) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.28 BUILDING CODES/PUBLIC SAFETY.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such agreement shall include any waiver,
modification or relaxation of any statute, ordinance or regulation of any
federal, state, county, village or other governmental body dealing with
building or health codes or otherwise designed to protect and promote the
public health, welfare and safety.
(1994 Code, § 10-2-4) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.29 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be deemed to be effective retroactive to the effective
date of this chapter (Enterprise Zone), adopted by the village on March 13,
1986; the effective date being March 14, 1986; and shall apply to any oral or
written agreements entered into between the village authorities and any
property owner who has undertaken any new construction or any rehabilitation,
restoration or renovation of any existing structures within the Enterprise Zone
established by the aforesaid Act; provided that any such agreements entered
into after the passage of this subchapter shall be in writing and shall be
filed with the Village Clerk upon approval.
(1994 Code, § 10-2-5) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
§ 151.30 REIMBURSEMENT.
   The village shall reimburse any water or sewer tap-on fees which have been
paid by any such property owner who has undertaken any new construction or any
rehabilitation, restoration or renovation of any structure or improvement
situated in any enterprise zone since the retroactive effective date of this
subchapter. The village shall immediately reimburse any tap-on fees, taxes,
assessments or other payments of any kind which have been mistakenly collected
from any property owner or developer in the future in contradiction to any such
agreement upon notice of same being given to the appropriate village officer or
authority.
(1994 Code, § 10-2-6) (Ord. 87-9, passed 6-11-1987)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Base flood elevation
   
152.04   Duties of the Zoning Administrator
   
152.05   Development permit
   
152.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damage
   
152.07   Protecting buildings
   
152.08   Subdivision and other development requirements
   
152.09   Variances
   
152.10   Disclaimer of liability
   
152.11   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this
village by the Illinois Municipal Code (see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1, 11-
12-12, 11-30-2, 11-30-8 and 11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas; and
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available.
(1994 Code, § 13-1-1)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
152.03 below.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof including manufactured homes and prefabricated buildings. The
term also includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on
a site for more than 180 days.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building, or any
addition to a building, exceeding 70 square feet in floor area;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other non-agricultural alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
         (h)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural
practices that do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These two terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the village that are subject
to inundation by the base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of the village are generally
identified as such on the flood insurance rate map of the village prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated November 26, 1982. The
FLOODPLAINS of those parts of unincorporated Madison County that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into the
village are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map
prepared for Madison County by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
dated April 15, 1982.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION or FPE. The elevation of the base flood at any
given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY for each of the floodplains of the village shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or other sources.
   IDOT/DWR. Illinois Department of Transportation/Division of Water Resources.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   SHFA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure.
      (3)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
(1994 Code, § 13-1-2) (Ord. 97-06, passed 8-19-1997)
§ 152.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter's protection standard is the base flood.
   (B)   The best available base flood data are listed below.
   (C)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the party may
finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace the existing data with
better data and submit it to the Federal Emergency Management Agency for
approval.
      (1)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the village in the
flood insurance study of the village prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated November, 1979.
      (2)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH
Zone" or "AO Zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the flood
insurance rate map of the village.
      (3)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A Zone" on the flood insurance rate map of the village shall
be according to the best data available from federal, state or other sources.
Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed to determine
base flood elevations.
      (4)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Madison County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the village, or that may be annexed into the village, shall be as delineated
on the 100-year flood profiles of the flood insurance study of Madison County
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated October 15, 1981.
(1994 Code, § 13-1-3)
§ 152.04 DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the village meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the Zoning Administrator shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
152.05 below;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06 below;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
152.07 below are met and maintain a record of the "as-built" elevation of the
lowest floor (including basement) or flood-proof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
152.08 below;
      (5)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
152.09 below are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (6)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all actions
outlined in §
152.99 below as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (7)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
      (8)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (9)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
and
      (10)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 13-1-4)
§ 152.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by state law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator
shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
152.07 below.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the Zoning
Administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
have been higher than the base flood elevation as of the date of the site's
first flood insurance rate map identification is not in the floodplain and
therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter. The Zoning
Administrator shall maintain documentation of the existing ground elevation at
the development site and certification that this ground elevation existed prior
to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map identification.
(1994 Code, § 13-1-5)
§ 152.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGE.
   Within all floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development,
will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No. 3;
      (2)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No. 4;
      (3)   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide
Permit No. 5;
      (4)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the conditions of IDOT/
DWR Statewide Permit No. 6;
      (5)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 7;
      (6)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
      (7)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No. 2;
      (8)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
      (9)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 11; and
      (10)   Any development determined by IDOT/DWR to be located entirely in a
flood fringe area.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in (A) may be permitted only
if:
      (1)   A permit has been issued for the work by IDOT/DWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDOT/DWR permit is not required); and
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary to approve
a revision of the regulatory map and base flood elevation.
(1994 Code, § 13-1-6)
§ 152.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06 above, all buildings to be located in the floodplain shall be protected
from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000;
      (2)   Substantial improvements made to an existing building;
      (3)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the floor area by more than 20%;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage); and
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180 days.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the flood protection elevation;
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse materials; and
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties; or
      (2)   The building may be elevated in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the base flood
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by having a minimum of two
permanent openings no more than one foot above grade and providing a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation;
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris;
         (e)   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
         (f)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed; and
         (g)   No area below the flood protection elevation shall be used for
storage of items or materials.
   (C)   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on site for
more than 180 days shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation; and
      (2)   Shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement
by being tied down in accordance with the Rules and Regulations for the
Illinois Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 IL Adm. Code 870.
   (D)   Non-residential building may be structurally flood-proofed (in lieu of
elevation) provided a registered professional engineer certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy and the
impact from debris and ice; and
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (E)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
(1994 Code, § 13-1-7)
§ 152.08 SUBDIVISION AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The Village Board shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of §§
152.06 and
152.07 above. Any proposal for the development shall include the following
data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the flood plain (where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation);
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act. See ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2.
   (B)   Public health standards must be met for all flood plain development.
In addition to the requirements of §§
152.06 and
152.07, the following standards apply:
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
the materials are stored in a storage tank or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
152.07 above; and
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on-site waste disposal
systems may be permitted providing all manholes or other above ground openings
located below the flood protection elevation are watertight.
   (C)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(1994 Code, § 13-1-8)
§ 152.09 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Board of
Appeals for a variance.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the applicant's request for a
variance and shall submit its recommendation to the Village Board.
   (C)   The Village Board may attach the conditions to granting of a variance
as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
      (1)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates
that:
         (a)   The development activity cannot be located outside the
floodplain;
         (b)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
         (c)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
         (d)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety,
or creation of a nuisance;
         (e)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
         (f)   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
         (g)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of §
152.07 above that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
         (a)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
for $100 of insurance coverage;
         (b)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
         (c)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
      (3)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
152.07 above requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair or
alteration of a site or building included on the National Register of Historic
Places or the State Register of Historic Places may be granted using criteria
more permissive than the requirements of division (C)(1)(a) through (e) above.
(1994 Code, § 13-1-9)
§ 152.10 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that development either inside or outside
of the floodplain will be free from flooding or damage.
   (C)   This chapter does not create liability on the part of the village or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance
on this subchapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(1994 Code, § 13-1-10)
§ 152.11 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the Village
Board to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program
including: Ill. Rev. State., Ch. 13. However, this chapter does not repeal the
original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program.
Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements,
covenants or deed restrictions. Where this chapter or other ordinance
easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(1994 Code, § 13-1-12) (Ord. 93-07, passed 3-25-1993)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon due investigation, the Village Attorney may determine that a
violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists.
   (C)   The Village Attorney shall notify the owner in writing of the
violation.
      (1)   If the owner fails after ten-days' notice to correct the violation:
         (a)   The village may make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter;
         (b)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200; and
         (c)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   The Village Attorney shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefor may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other
lawful action to prevent and remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(1994 Code, § 13-1-11)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   State requirements adopted by reference
   
153.03   State Department of Public Health regulations
Immobilized Mobile Homes
   
153.15   Generally
   
153.16   Permit
   
153.17   Lot size and distance
   
153.18   Dependent mobile homes
   
153.19   Concrete pads
   
153.20   Off-street parking
   
153.21   Contractor units
   
153.22   Recreation vehicle as residence
Mobile Home Parks
   
153.35   Compliance with statutes; applicability of subchapter
   
153.36   Planning
   
153.37   Local government requirements
   
153.38   Permits
   
153.39   Inspection of mobile home park
   
153.40   Violation proceedings
   
153.41   Plan document
   
153.42   Application
   
153.43   Location
   
153.44   Roadways and parking
   
153.45   Lot size
   
153.46   Miscellaneous restrictions
   
153.47   License fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFIDAVIT. An oath in writing, sworn before and attested by an individual
who has authority to administer an oath.
   APPLICANT. Any person making an application for a license or permit.
   IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME. Any structure resting on a permanent foundation
with wheels, tongue and hitch permanently removed. The Village Board
establishes the following criteria to complete the immobilization of a mobile
home:
      (1)   The foundation shall extend into the ground below the frost line so
as to attach and become a part of the real estate. Materials such as concrete,
mortared concrete block or mortared brick extending into the ground below the
frost line shall satisfy the requirement for a permanent foundation; and
      (2)   To complete the immobilization, wheels, tongue and hitch must be
permanently removed. Axles may be removed.
   LICENSE. A license certificate issued by the village, allowing a person to
operate and maintain a mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter
and the rules and regulations issued hereunder.
   LICENSEE. Any person having a license or permit under this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME.
      (1)   A structure designed for permanent habitation and so constructed as
to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently attached to its
frame, from the place of its construction to the location or subsequent
locations at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and designed to
permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more persons,
provided that any such structure resting on a permanent foundation with wheels,
tongue and hitch permanently removed shall not be construed as a MOBILE HOME,
but shall be an immobilized mobile home.
      (2)   A MOBILE HOME should not be confused with a camping trailer or
recreational vehicle.
   MOBILE HOME, DEPENDENT. A mobile home or travel trailer which does not have
a flush toilet or a bathtub or shower.
   MOBILE HOME, DOUBLE-WIDE. Consists of two mobile units joined at the side
into a single home, but kept on their separate chassis for repeated
transportation to a site.
   MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT. A mobile home with self-contained toilet and bath
or shower facilities.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a mobile home and the
exclusive use of its occupants.
   MOBILE HOME MODULE. A factory-fabricated building unit transported to a
building site, mounted on a permanent foundation supporting the outside
perimeter walls, and is designed for residential use.
   MOBILE HOME PAD. That part of an individual mobile home space or lot beneath
the mobile home, including the concrete portion of the pad.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land under unified ownership and/or control on
which two or more occupied mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or
for revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle
or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the equipment of such mobile
home park, including courts, developments and communities.
   MOBILE HOME SALES AREA. A parcel of land used for the display, sale and
repair of new or used mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A portion of a mobile home park designed for the use or
occupancy of one mobile home.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. The licensee.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
   PERMIT. A permit certificate issued by the village permitting the
construction, alteration or reduction in number of spaces of a mobile home park
under the provisions.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, association, trust,
partnership, corporation, person doing business under an assumed name, county,
municipality, the state or any political subdivision or department thereof or
any other entity.
   REVOCATION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by this village for an indefinite period of time.
   SPACE. Synonymous with MOBILE HOME SPACE.
   SUSPENSION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by this village for a temporary period of time with an expectation
of resumption.
(1994 Code, § 23-1-1)
§ 153.02 STATE REQUIREMENTS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Mobile Home Park Act, being ILCS Ch. 210, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq. and the
Mobile Home Tie-down Act, being ILCS Ch. 210, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq., as passed,
approved and amended by the Illinois General Assembly are hereby adopted by the
village. The applicable provisions as they pertain to mobile homes and
immobilized mobile homes shall be controlling within the corporate limits of
the village.
(1994 Code, § 23-1-2)
§ 153.03 STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   The "Rules and Regulations for Mobile Home Parks," as approved by the
Illinois Department of Public Health is hereby adopted by the village, the
applicable provisions as they pertain to mobile homes and immobilized mobile
homes shall be controlling within the village.
(1994 Code, § 23-1-3)
IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOMES
§ 153.15 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All immobilized mobile homes located in the village shall be classed
as real estate; therefore, it is mandatory for all persons owning, operating,
renting or leasing an existing mobile home outside a mobile home park to remove
or cause to have removed the wheels or any other transportation device from the
mobile home.
   (B)   The owner or lessor shall permanently fix it to the ground in a manner
that conforms to the definition of an "immobilized mobile home" as found in §
153.01 above. All existing mobile homes, when replaced, shall comply with the
immobilization provisions of this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 23-2-1)
§ 153.16 PERMIT.
   (A)   All persons seeking to locate or replace a mobile home or an
immobilized mobile home outside a mobile home park shall obtain a building
permit from the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   No utility services shall be connected to the unit until the Zoning
Administrator has issued the building permit. All units located outside a
licensed mobile home park shall be on a lot owned by the person seeking the
permit.
(1994 Code, § 23-2-2)
§ 153.17 LOT SIZE AND DISTANCE.
   (A)   The minimum lot size for the location of an immobilized mobile home
shall be 8,000 square feet.
   (B)   All units shall be at least 15 feet from any lot line, 25 feet from
any building on any adjacent lot or 25 feet from any street.
(1994 Code, § 23-2-3)
§ 153.18 DEPENDENT MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   No dependent mobile home shall be permitted in the village unless
located in a licensed travel-trailer park.
   (B)   At no time shall anyone use a dependent mobile home as a temporary or
permanent residence or dwelling without the approval of the Zoning Board.
(1994 Code, § 23-2-4)
§ 153.19 CONCRETE PADS.
   All immobilized mobile homes shall meet the specifications as defined in §
153.01 above.
(1994 Code, § 23-2-5)
§ 153.20 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Each owner of an immobilized mobile home shall provide for a dustless, off-
street parking area of 400 square feet.
§ 153.21 CONTRACTOR UNITS.
   A contractor may locate a mobile home on a construction site for a maximum
of 90 days.
(1994 Code, § 23-2-7) (Ord. 86-7, passed 3-27-1986)
§ 153.22 RECREATION VEHICLE AS RESIDENCE.
   A person may locate and utilize a recreational vehicle as a temporary
residence in the village for no more than five days. Thereafter the vehicle
shall be moved from the lot for at least 14 days. See §
155.125 below.
(1994 Code, § 23-2-8) (Ord. 86-7, passed 3-27-1986)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 153.35 COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTES; APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Every mobile home park hereafter established in the village shall, at
a minimum, conform to the requirements of:
      (1)   "An Act to provide for, license, and regulate mobile homes and
mobile home parks."
(ILCS Ch. 210, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq.);
      (2)   "Rules and Regulations for Mobile Home Parks," State Department of
Public Health, Consumer Protection Division as now or hereafter amended, and
      (3)   This chapter.
   (B)   In case of conflict between any provisions of the above, the more
stringent requirement shall prevail.
   (C)   Mobile home parks may be allowed by permit in the village.
(1994 Code, § 23-3-1)
§ 153.36 PLANNING.
   (A)   Any person seeking to establish, operate, alter or expand a mobile
home park shall obtain a permit to construct or license to operate a mobile
home park. CONSTRUCT OR OPERATE A MOBILE HOME PARK as used in this chapter
shall include, but not necessarily be limited to supplying or maintaining
common water, sewer or other utility supply or service, or the collection of
rents directly or indirectly from two or more independent mobile homes.
   (B)   All plans shall be submitted to the Plan Commission for approval prior
to the granting of a permit by the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 23-3-2)
§ 153.37 LOCAL GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   A permit does not relieve the applicant from complying with this chapter,
the Zoning Code or other ordinance(s) applicable thereto.
(1994 Code, § 23-3-3)
§ 153.38 PERMITS.
   The Plan Commission shall review each application and plan documents
submitted. When the application and plan documents are found to be in
compliance with the "Rules and Regulations for Mobile Home Parks," as
promulgated by the State Department of Public Health, the Village Board may
issue the proper permit to construct or alter a mobile home park to the
applicant. Permits shall be valid for one year from date of issue.
(1994 Code, § 23-3-4)
§ 153.39 INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME PARK.
   Upon completion of the proposed construction of a mobile home park or the
proposed alteration of a mobile home park, the applicant shall notify the Mayor
in order that an inspection of the complete facilities can be made.
(1994 Code, § 23-3-5)
§ 153.40 VIOLATION PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Any license granted hereunder shall be subject to revocation or
suspension by the Mayor. However, the Mayor shall first serve or cause to be
served upon the licensee a written notice in which shall be specified the way
or ways in which the licensee has failed to comply with the statutes or any
rules or regulations promulgated by the village pertaining thereto.
   (B)   The notice shall require the licensee to remove or abate the nuisance,
unsanitary or objectionable condition, specified in the notice, within five
days or within a longer period of time as may be allowed by the Mayor. If the
licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the notice within the
time specified or the extended period of time, the Mayor may revoke or suspend
the license.
(1994 Code, § 23-3-6)
§ 153.41 PLAN DOCUMENT.
   (A)   In order to obtain a permit to construct or an original license to
operate a mobile home park, the applicant shall file with the Mayor a written
application and plan documents and the plan documents shall be prepared by a
registered engineer or architect licensed to practice in the state, with
registration seal affixed.
   (B)   Two copies of the plan document shall accompany the application filed
with the village to obtain a permit to construct or alter a mobile home park or
an original license to operate a mobile home park not previously licensed by
the Department. These plans shall include, but not be limited to the design and
construction criteria set forth herein.
(1994 Code, § 23-3-10)
§ 153.42 APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Every applicant shall file with the Mayor a written application
and plan documents for the proposed construction or alteration of a mobile home
park.
      (2)   The plan documents shall be prepared by a registered engineer or
architect licensed to practice in the state, with registration seal affixed to
the plan.
   (B)   The application shall be completed by the applicant and the engineer
or architect and shall include:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, or names
and addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the names
and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application. If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of
incorporation must be filed with the application;
      (2)   The proposed method of lighting and structures and land upon which
the mobile home park is to be located;
      (3)   The plot plans of the mobile home park, building plans and
specifications for existing buildings and facilities, and the plans and
specifications for new buildings and facilities or the proposed alterations in
existing facilities;
      (4)   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters
contained in the application shall be attached; and
      (5)   Each application shall be accompanied by an application fee of $50
for a permit to construct or an application fee of $25 for a permit to alter to
increase the size of the park.
(1994 Code, § 23-3-11)
§ 153.43 LOCATION.
   (A)   Sites selected for mobile home development shall be well-drained and
free from topographical or geological hindrances and from other conditions
unfavorable to a proper residential environment. The mobile home development
shall not be located near swamps, marshes or other breeding places of insects,
rats and mice. When a good, natural drainage is not available, storm drainage
shall be provided and such drainage shall not endanger any water supply or
surface watercourse.
   (B)   The Mayor may conduct a side survey to ascertain that the proposed
location complied with the above requirements.
(1994 Code, § 23-3-12)
§ 153.44 ROADWAYS AND PARKING.
   (A)   All streets and driveways in every park shall be constructed in
compliance with the Subdivision Code (
Chapter 154).
   (B)   All streets in parks constructed shall have a minimum road width of 30
feet for the purpose of this chapter, and shall be considered private streets.
If a mobile home park has more than 50 units, then a 32-foot width may be
required by the Plan Commission.
   (C)   When sidewalks and walkways are constructed abutting a street in a
mobile home park, they shall be a minimum of four feet in width; provided,
however, there shall be no minimum width requirement for sidewalks for each
individual lot. No portion of mobile home shall block, in any way, the
pedestrian traffic on the walkways.
(1994 Code, § 23-3-13)
§ 153.45 LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot size for a mobile home pad shall be 6,000 square feet.
(1994 Code, § 23-3-16)
§ 153.46 MISCELLANEOUS RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No mobile home parked in a mobile home park shall be immobilized.
   (B)   Not more than one mobile home shall be parked in one space.
   (C)   No travel trailer shall be permitted in any mobile home park.
(1994 Code, § 23-3-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.47 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee per mobile home park shall be $50, and shall be due
and payable on or before May 1 of each year. The funds shall be placed in the
General Fund and applied to the administrative cost of the inspections.
(1994 Code, § 23-3-20)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Scope and Purpose
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Scope
   
154.003   Purpose
   
154.004   Interpretation
   
154.005   Application of code
   
154.006   Suitability of land for subdivision development
   
154.007   Rules and definitions
   
154.008   Adoption by reference
   
154.009   Subdivision plats requirements
   
154.010   Disclaimer of liability
Preliminary Plat
   
154.025   Pre-application conference
   
154.026   Applicability of subchapter
   
154.027   Minor subdivisions
   
154.028   Preliminary plan and plat
   
154.029   Preliminary plat requirements
   
154.030   Minimum standards of design; generally
   
154.031   Streets and alleys
   
154.032   Drainage
   
154.033   Erosion and sediment control
   
154.034   Easements
   
154.035   Blocks; crosswalks
   
154.036   Parks and other public areas
   
154.037   Utilities
   
154.038   Lots
   
154.039   Checklist completed
Engineering Plans
   
154.050   Procedure
   
154.051   Minimum standards of improvement; generally
   
154.052   Reference monuments
   
154.053   Street improvements
   
154.054   Storm sewers and other drainage appurtenances
   
154.055   Public utility engineering requirements
   
154.056   Sanitary sewers
   
154.057   Water system
   
154.058   Street names and signs
   
154.059   Public utilities
   
154.060   Sidewalks
   
154.061   Checklist
   
154.062   Changes or revisions
   
154.063   Approval; tentative
   
154.064   Letter of approval
Final Plats
   
154.075   Procedure; subdivider
   
154.076   Requirements of subdivider
   
154.077   Appropriate certificates
   
154.078   Requirements of final plat
   
154.079   Guarantees to village
   
154.080   Construction time constraints
   
154.081   Inspection
   
154.082   Release of bond
Administration
   
154.095   Enforcement Officer; duties
   
154.096   Subdivision variances
   
154.097   Amendments
   
154.098   Advisory report; action by Village Board
   
154.099   Schedule of fees
   
154.100   Recording
   
154.101   Vacation of plats
   
154.102   Maintenance of improvements
Schedules and Bonds
   
154.115   Checklist for preliminary plan
   
154.116   Checklist for engineering plans
   
154.117   Checklist for final plat
   
154.118   Surety bond for improvements
   
154.119   Cash bond
   
Appendix A:   Figures
SCOPE AND PURPOSE
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, referred to, and cited as "The Subdivision
Code".
(1994 Code, § 34-1-1)
§ 154.002 SCOPE.
   (A)   For the purpose of present and future development of the village and
for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare of
persons living within the territory governed, the provisions and regulations
hereafter contained shall govern the subdividing and platting of lands lying
within the corporate limits of the municipality and within all unincorporated
territory located within one and one-half miles of the municipality, as now or
hereafter existing, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. Within the
area of jurisdiction of the village, the provisions of the statutes of the
state are hereby adopted as part of the "official plan of the village".
   (B)   This chapter prescribes procedures for the subdivision or
resubdivision of land within the area of jurisdiction of the village and
comprises the procedures, requirements, standards and specifications with
respect thereto.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-9) (1994 Code, § 34-1-2)
§ 154.003 PURPOSE.
   In accordance with state law, this chapter regulates the subdivision and
development of land in order to assist in achieving the following specific
objectives:
   (A)   To preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety and
welfare;
   (B)   To implement the Village Comprehensive Plan and the official map;
   (C)   To provide a pleasant living environment by furthering the orderly
layout and development of land;
   (D)   To avoid legal and other problems by requiring that subdivided land be
properly monumented and recorded;
   (E)   To conserve and increase the value of land, improvements and buildings
throughout the village;
   (F)   To preserve the village's natural beauty and topography to the maximum
feasible extent;
   (G)   To protect against injury or damage caused by pollution, storm water
runoff or erosion and sedimentation;
   (H)   To provide safe and convenient access to new developments and to avoid
traffic congestion and unnecessary public expenditures by requiring the proper
location, design and construction of streets and sidewalks;
   (I)   To ensure the proper installation and maintenance of adequate water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm water sewers and other utilities and services;
and
   (J)   To ensure that in conservation areas, adequate parks and similar
facilities can be made available to serve the residents of new developments.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-12-8 through 11-12-12 and ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, §§
1 et seq.) (1994 Code, § 34-1-3)
§ 154.004 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   This chapter is intended as minimum requirements to provide for
coordinated, efficient and economic development of the village, to ensure the
adequacy of street and utility facilities, and to promote the public health,
safety and welfare.
   (B)   Thus, in accordance with state law, whenever this chapter imposes
higher standards than the County Subdivision Ordinance and the Plat Act, being
ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, §§ 1 et seq., the higher standards shall supersede the
county regulations in the unincorporated territory located within the
subdivision jurisdiction of the village.
(1994 Code, § 34-1-4)
§ 154.005 APPLICATION OF CODE.
   No lot, tract or parcel of land in a subdivision as defined herein may be
conveyed unless a final plat of the property has been approved according to the
requirements and provisions of this chapter and recorded in the office of the
County Recorder of Deeds, except in those instances in §
154.009 below when subdivision plats will not be required.
(1994 Code, § 34-1-5)
§ 154.006 SUITABILITY OF LAND FOR SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT.
   Land unsuitable for subdivision development due to drainage, flood hazard
area, hillside area, rock formation or any other condition or conditions
constituting a danger to health, life or property shall not be approved for
subdivision development unless the subdivider presents evidence or data
satisfactory to the Plan Commission, establishing that the methods proposed to
meet any such condition(s) are adequate to avoid any danger to health, life or
property.
(1994 Code, § 34-1-6)
§ 154.007 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction: whenever a word or term
defined hereinafter appears in the text of this Chapter, its meaning shall be
construed as set forth in the definition thereof; and any word appearing in
parentheses directly after a word herein defined shall be construed in the same
sense as that word. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   AREA, GROSS. The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed for subdivision, including the area to be dedicated for street and
alley rights-of-way and public use.
   BARRIER (NATURAL OR ARTIFICIAL). Any street, highway, river, pond, canal,
railroad, levee, embankment or screening by a fence or hedge.
   COMMISSION. The Plan Commission of the village.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the village
for the coordinated physical development, including, among other things, plans
and programs regarding the location, character and extent of highways,
transportation routes, bridges, public buildings or uses, utilities, schools,
residential, commercial or industrial land uses, parks, forests, dams, drainage
facilities and projects affecting the conservation of natural resources of the
village.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short, minor local street, having only one end open for
vehicular traffic, and the other end permanently terminated by a turn-around
for vehicles.
   DESIGN. The arrangement of uses on the land and use of land for easements,
lots and rights-of-way, including material, alignment, grade, and width of
these elements.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. All land subject to periodic inundation from overflow or
natural waterways when subjected to the maximum possible runoff from three
inches of rain per hour as calculated by approved engineering methods subject
to periodic ponding.
   HILLSIDE AREA. An area with an average slope of 20% or more.
   IMPROVEMENT. Refers to site grading, street work and utilities (including
water, sewer, electric, gas and storm water), to be installed or agreed to be
installed by the subdivider on land to be used for public or private streets,
and easements or other purposes as are necessary for the general use of lot
owners in the subdivision.
   IMPROVEMENT PLAN. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for the physical structures and facilities to be installed
both in or in conjunction with the subdivision.
   LAND USE PLAN. The long-range plan for the desirable use of land in the
village as officially adopted and as amended from time to time by the Village
Board of Trustees or appropriate corporate authority.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a building
or contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials and which abuts
upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
   PARKING LANE. An auxiliary lane of a street used primarily for vehicular
parking.
   PLANS. All of the drawings, including plats, cross-sections, profiles,
working details and specifications, which the subdivider prepares or has
prepared to show the character, extent and details of improvements required in
§§
154.050 through
154.064 below, and which plans shall conform to any requirements of the Plan
Commission as to scale and details for submittal to the appropriate officials
of the village for consideration, approval or disapproval.
   PLAT. The maps, drawings, charts and other documents complying with all
applicable provisions of this chapter which constitute the plan for subdivision
and which the subdivider submits to the village for consideration of approval.
   PLAT, FINAL. A plat prepared to the requirements of §§
154.075 through
154.082 and if approved, will be submitted to the County Recorder of Deeds for
recordation.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A plat drawn upon tracing paper or other material from
which reproduction can be made and conforming to the requirements of §§
154.025 through
154.039 below.
   PREMISES. A lot, together with all the buildings and uses thereon.
   PUBLIC SEWER AND WATER FACILITIES. Those water and/or sewer facilities of
the village, county, the state, the federal and/or of a sanitary sewer district
and/or privately-owned public facilities which comply with applicable public
health standards.
   RESUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION.
   ROAD, COUNTY. A term denoting a tract of land which is used primarily for
the purposes of vehicular movement and includes all of the facilities and
improvements within the rights-of-way. This tract of land must have been
presented to and accepted by the County Superintendent of Highways.
   ROADBED. The graded portion of a street upon which the base course, surface
course, shoulders and median are constructed.
   ROADWAY. The entire improved portion of the street, including shoulders,
parking lanes, travel way, curbs and gutters which lie between the right-of-way
lines.
   SETBACK LINE. The line parallel to the front, side or rear lot line
establishing the minimum space to be provided as the front, side or rear yard.
   STREET. A general term denoting a public or private way for the purpose of
vehicular travel. The term includes all facilities which normally occur within
the right-of-way; it shall also include such other designation for a street as:
a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, pike, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place, drive, court or as otherwise designated, but excluding an alley or
a way for pedestrian use only.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street designed or utilized primarily for high vehicular
speeds and heavy volumes of traffic on a continuous route, with intersections
at grade, and which may have direct access to abutting properties, and on which
geometric design and traffic control measures are used to expedite the safe
movement of through traffic.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which carries or is proposed to carry
intermediate volumes of traffic from local streets to arterial streets and
which may or may not be continuous.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street used primarily for access to abutting properties,
providing for minimum speeds and traffic volumes.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS OR SERVICE ROAD. A local street parallel and
adjacent to arterial streets providing access to abutting properties.
   SLOPE. The degree of natural inclination of the existing ground.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed which requires permanent or temporary
location on the ground or is attached to something having a permanent or
temporary location on the ground.
   STUB. A street that is temporarily terminated, but that is planned for
future continuation.
   SUBDIVIDE. See SUBDIVISION.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate
or other group or combination acting as a unit, dividing or proposing to divide
land in a manner that constitutes a subdivision as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land into two or more lots or parcels for the
purpose of either immediate or future sale, rental or building development, or
any other uses, or the establishment or dedication of a public street or alley
through a tract of land regardless of size. The term SUBDIVISION shall also
include all resubdivisions of land or lots.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A division of land into two, but not more than four
lots, all of which front upon an existing street, not involving new streets or
other rights-of-way, easements, improvements or other provisions for public
areas and facilities.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area of land.
   TRAVEL WAY. The portion of a street used for the movement of vehicles,
exclusive of shoulders and auxiliary lanes.
   VACATE. To terminate the legal existence of right-of-way or subdivision, and
to so note on the final plat recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds.
   VARIANCE, SUBDIVISION. A relaxation in the strict application of the design
and improvement standards set forth in this chapter.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator or the person designated by
the Village Board to enforce and administer the provisions of this chapter or
his duly appointed representative(s).
(1994 Code, § 34-1-7)
§ 154.008 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   All definitions not otherwise contained in the Zoning Code, if any, and the
revised code of ordinances are hereby adopted by reference.
(1994 Code, § 34-1-8)
§ 154.009 SUBDIVISION PLATS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The provisions of these regulations do not apply and no subdivision
plat is required in any of the following instances, provided, however, all of
the resulting divisions shall conform to the Zoning Code:
      (1)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (2)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (3)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land;
      (4)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other pipe
lines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (5)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or
grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
      (6)   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
      (7)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
existing on July 17, 1959, and not involving any new streets or easements of
access, provided, however, a plat of survey shall be prepared by a registered
surveyor and submitted to the Plan Commission;
      (8)   The sale of a single lot of less than five acres from a larger
tract when a plat of a survey is made by a registered surveyor; provided that
this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the same
larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of the
larger tract on October 1, 1973, and provided also that this exemption does not
invalidate any local requirements applicable to the subdivision of land; and
      (9)   The division of land for cemetery usage.
   (B)   Under the circumstances when subdivision plats are not required as
described above, the Plan Commission reserves the right to request a plat of
survey or other documentation if there is a need for the survey or
documentation in order to verify conformance to the Zoning Code and/or to
ensure that the division of property is in accordance with the purpose and
objectives of the code as listed in §
154.003 above.
(1994 Code, § 34-1-9)
§ 154.010 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
official, board member, agent or employee of the village shall render himself
or herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties under this chapter. See Local Governmental Employees Tort
Immunity Act, being ILCS Ch. 745, Act 10, § 1-101.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any official, board member, agent or employee
of this village as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge
of his or her duties under this chapter shall be defended by the Village
Attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(1994 Code, § 34-1-10)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 154.025 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   Before submitting a preliminary plan and plat, the applicant is encouraged
to confer with the Zoning Administrator and the Plan Commission and other
official units of government affected thereby as well as those providing
services to the area in question to initiate pre-planning activities and obtain
information and guidance before entering into binding commitments or incurring
substantial expense in the preparation of detailed plans, surveys and other
data.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-1)
§ 154.026 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   No land within the subdivision jurisdiction of the village (other than
land that is specifically exempted from the requirements of this chapter as
provided in §
154.009 above) shall be subdivided or developed, except in compliance with the
regulations of this chapter and the applicable provisions of state law.
   (B)   No lot in any subdivision shall be conveyed until:
      (1)   The portion of the subdivision in which the lot is located has been
improved in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter or until a
performance bond or other security has been posted to assure the completion of
the improvements; and
      (2)   The final plat of the subdivision has been approved by the Village
Board and recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds.
   (C)   No building permit shall be issued to allow construction on any lot
conveyed in violation of this section.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-2)
§ 154.027 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   Minor subdivisions as defined in §
154.007 above may be exempted from the procedures and requirements for
preliminary plats and the subdivider may proceed to filing of the final plat
for review. Final plat procedures and requirements shall be as specified in §§
154.075 and
154.076 below.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-3)
§ 154.028 PRELIMINARY PLAN AND PLAT.
   (A)   Subdivider. The subdivider shall file with the village at the office
of the Zoning Administrator ten copies of the preliminary plan and plat at
least ten days prior to the regularly scheduled Plan Commission meeting. The
application shall include the following.
      (1)   Requested information. A written request to the Plan Commission for
preliminary review of the subdivision and a general description of the location
and size of the tract to be platted; the intent as to character type and use of
the property and structures to be developed; the deed restrictions proposed, if
any; a statement of mineral rights; the extent and character of the
improvements to be made by the subdivider, the zone district classification(s)
of the territory and compliance of the proposed subdivision thereto. If
appropriate, a description of any unique hardship or difficulty limiting the
physical development of the property under consideration and a description of
any past history of the property under consideration which is pertinent
thereto.
      (2)   Documentation. The necessary documentation in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter. See §§
154.029 et seq.
      (3)   Filing fee. A filing fee sufficient to cover the engineering
inspection fees to be incurred by the village.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Distribute copies. The Zoning Administrator shall immediately
distribute a copy to the Village Board's Water and Sewer Committee(s); a copy
to the School Superintendent(s); a copy to the Soil and Water Conservation
Service; a copy to the Village Engineer; a copy to the Mayor; two copies to the
Plan Commission; and a copy to the Fire Chief.
      (2)   Time constraints. The Commission shall review the preliminary plat
within 60 days from the date of application, or the filing by the subdivider of
the last item of required supporting data, whichever date is later, unless the
time is extended by written mutual consent, and shall determine whether the
preliminary plat shall be approved as submitted; shall be approved subject to
certain conditions or modifications; or shall be disapproved.
      (3)   Plan Commission review. The action of the Plan Commission shall be
noted in writing and if such preliminary plat is disapproved or is
conditionally approved, the Commission shall furnish written notice of the
action to the applicant setting forth the reasons for disapproval or
conditional approval and specifying with particularity the aspects in which the
preliminary plat fails to conform to the village code, including the
Comprehensive Plan.
      (4)   Village Board review. The Village Board shall accept or reject the
preliminary plat within 30 days after its next regularly scheduled meeting
following the action granting approval of the preliminary plat by the
Commission, unless the time is extended by written mutual agreement of the
Village Board and the applicant, or the preliminary plat will be deemed as
approved. The Village Board shall indicate by letter whether the preliminary
plat is approved or disapproved as submitted. If the preliminary plat is
disapproved, the letter shall state the reasons for disapproval.
      (5)   Official approval. A certified copy of the letter of approval or
disapproval by the Village Board shall be attached to the preliminary plat and
shall be filed with the Village Clerk. One copy shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator, and one copy shall be returned to the subdivider. Approval of
the preliminary plat shall not qualify the preliminary plat for recording with
the County Recorder of Deeds.
      (6)   Rights and privileges of subdivider. Preliminary plat approval
shall confer upon the subdivider the following rights and privileges:
         (a)   That the preliminary plat approval will remain in effect for a
one-year period. The applicant may, during this period, submit all of or part
or parts of the preliminary plat for final approval. In the event that the
subdivision is being developed in stages, the applicant may, by written mutual
agreement with the Plan Commission, have final approval of the last part of the
plat delayed for a period not to exceed three years from the date of the
preliminary plat approval. Any part of a subdivision which is being developed
in stages shall contain a tract of land at least one block in length; and
         (b)   That the general terms and conditions under which the
preliminary plat approval was granted will not be changed.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-4)
§ 154.029 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every preliminary plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor registered
in the state.
   (B)   The preliminary plat to be provided by the subdivider shall meet and
include the following specifications and supporting data:
      (1)   Proposed name of the subdivision and location;
      (2)   Small key map showing the relation of the proposed subdivision to
section or U.S. survey lines and to platted subdivisions and dedicated streets
within 300 feet of the proposed subdivision;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, land planning
consultant and the Illinois registered land surveyor who prepared the
preliminary plat;
      (4)   Existing and proposed streets or alleys and rights-of-way on and
adjoining the site of the proposed subdivision; showing the names and including
street roadway and right-of-way widths, approximate gradients, types of widths
of pavement, curbs, sidewalks, crosswalks, planting strips and other pertinent
data, including classification of all streets as to function as established
herein;
      (5)   All lot lines adjacent to and abutting the subdivision;
      (6)   Layout of lots, showing approximate dimensions, numbers, lot area
and zone district classification(s);
      (7)   Parcels of land, if any, proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, parks, playgrounds or other public, semipublic or community purposes
and use(s) of the area to be subdivided;
      (8)   Easements, existing and proposed, showing locations, widths and
purposes;
      (9)   Building setback line and dimensions;
      (10)   Location and size of existing public utilities and drainage ways
or facilities within or adjoining the proposed subdivision and the location and
size of nearest water trunk mains, interceptor sewer lines and other pertinent
utilities;
      (11)   Location, type and approximate size of utility improvements to be
installed;
      (12)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles and
references to known land lines;
      (13)   The gross area and net area acreage of the proposed subdivision,
the acreage of streets, and of any areas reserved for the common use of the
property owners within the subdivision and/or for public use;
      (14)   Where the topography has a significant bearing upon the street
grades, the plan of public utilities and drainage ways or facilities in the
proposed subdivision and when it would be difficult for the Plan Commission or
the Village Board to understand the relation of the plan to the existing
topographic conditions, contour lines at not greater than two-foot intervals
shall be shown. Contour lines shall be shown for all hillside areas and other
areas of significant slope;
      (15)   Location of major watercourses, ponding areas, natural drainage
ways and flood hazard areas;
      (16)   The preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale of not greater than
100 feet to one inch, provided, however, that if the resulting drawing would be
over 42 inches square, a scale of up to 200 feet to one inch may be used;
      (17)   North arrow and date; and
      (18)   Whenever a large tract is intended to be developed in stages, and
only part of that tract is to be submitted for final plat approval, a
preliminary plat for subdivision of the entire tract shall be submitted.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-6)
§ 154.030 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN; GENERALLY.
   (A)   The subdivider shall conform to the following principles and standards
of land subdivision in the design of each subdivision or portion thereof.
   (B)   No preliminary plat shall be approved unless it conforms to the
following minimum standards of design.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-9)
§ 154.031 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The street and alley arrangement shall be such as to not impose undue
hardship upon the owners of adjoining property when they plat their own land
and seek to provide for convenient access thereto. Reserve strips controlling
access to streets are prohibited, except where their control is placed with the
Village Board.
   (B)   The arrangement of rights-of-way in a subdivision shall provide for
the continuation of the existing streets or rights-of-way in adjoining areas,
unless the Plan Commission deems the continuation undesirable for reasons of
topography or design. Where subdivision streets or rights-of-way are
continuations or extensions of existing streets or rights-of-way, the width
thereof shall be of the same or greater width as the existing street or right-
of-way, except that in no case shall the street or right-of-way in the
subdivision be of less width than hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Where, in the opinion of the Plan Commission, it is desirable to
provide future street access to adjoining areas, the streets and rights-of-way
in the subdivision shall be extended to the property line. If deemed necessary
by the Plan Commission, any temporary dead-end street shall be provided with a
temporary turn-around. In no case shall access be denied to any parcel or part
of a parcel of ground by the subdividing of land.
   (D)   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles.
   (E)   Local street curb intersections shall be rounded by radii of at least
15 feet; intersections involving collector or arterial streets shall have radii
of not less than 25 feet.
   (F)   Street jogs with center line offsets of less than 125 feet are
prohibited.
   (G)   Unless topography indicates a need for a greater length, dead-end
streets designed to be so permanently shall be no longer than 500 feet and
shall terminate in a circular open space having a radius at the outside of the
pavement of at least 40 feet and a diameter at the outside of the right-of-way
of at least 100 feet.
   (H)   Local streets shall be designed so as to discourage through traffic.
   (I)   No local street grade shall be in excess of 10% and no collection
street or arterial street grade shall be in excess of 7%, except as otherwise
approved by the Plan Commission due to adverse topographic conditions. For
adequate drainage, the minimum grade of any new street shall not be less than
0.5%.
   (J)   The Plan Commission shall not approve streets which will be subject to
frequent inundation or flooding.
   (K)   Alleys shall be avoided in a single-family and two-family district,
except as required by this section, however, may be required in multiple-family
districts and commercial or industrial districts, unless other definite and
assured provision is made for service access, such as off-street loading,
unloading and parking consistent and adequate for the use proposed.
   (L)   Dead-end alleys shall not be permitted, except where provided with
adequate turn-around facilities at the dead-end, or where such dead-end alleys
provide the only access to off-street parking.
   (M)   Alleys, where provided shall have a right-of-way of not less than 20
feet.
   (N)   The minimum right-of-way of local streets, including marginal access
streets and cul-de-sacs, shall be 50 feet.
   (O)   The minimum right-of-way of secondary or collector streets shall be 60
feet.
   (P)   The minimum right-of-way of arterial or primary streets shall be 80
feet.
   (Q)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be avoided.
   (R)   Where the subdivision abuts in or contains an existing or proposed
arterial street, the Plan Commission may require that marginal access streets
be provided in order that no lots front on the existing or proposed arterial
street.
   (S)   Dedication of half-streets shall be discouraged, but may be permitted
whenever there is no other logical method of platting. However, wherever there
exists a dedicated or platted half-street or alley adjacent to the tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street or alley shall be platted, unless
otherwise permitted by the Plan Commission.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-10)
§ 154.032 DRAINAGE.
   No plat shall be approved for any subdivision which is subject to flooding
unless the plat conforms to the applicable requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   No plat shall be approved for any subdivision or part thereof which is
subject to periodic flooding or which contains inadequate drainage facilities
or which makes adequate drainage of streets impossible. However, if the
subdivider agrees in writing to make improvements at his or her expense which
will, in the opinion of the Plan Commission, make the area safe for human
occupancy and use and further provide adequate drainage for streets, then the
preliminary and final plat may be approved.
   (B)   Storm water drainage shall be discharged to marshlands, swamps,
retention basins or other treatment facilities. Diversion of storm water to
marshlands or swamps shall be considered by the Plan Commission for existing or
planned surface drainage. Marshlands and swamps used for storm water shall
provide for natural or artificial water level control.
   (C)   No existing ditch, stream, drain or drainage canal shall be deepened,
widened, filled, rerouted or filled without written permission from the
village.
   (D)   Where artificial channels must be constructed to augment the natural
drainage system, the channels as well as the natural drainage ways may be
planned as part of a recreation trail system. Channels shall be designed to be
aesthetically compatible for recreational trail use.
   (E)   The drainage system shall be constructed and operational during
construction or as approved by the Village.
   (F)   The natural drainage system shall be used as far as is feasible for
the storage and flow of runoff.
   (G)   No plat shall be recorded for any subdivision situated within 500 feet
of any surface drain or watercourse serving a tributary area of 640 acres or
more, until the plat or map has been reviewed by the Department of
Transportation, either independently or in cooperation with federal, state or
local agencies, for the purpose of determining, for the protection of persons
and property, the flood hazards involved, and a report thereon filed by that
Department with the County Recorder.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-11)
§ 154.033 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   The following standards shall be applied in the subdivision and construction
of land areas:
   (A)   The development shall conform to the natural limitations presented by
topography and soil so as to create the least potential for soil erosion;
   (B)   Natural plant covering shall be retained and protected so far as is
consistent with development of the site;
   (C)   When soil is exposed, the exposure shall be for the shortest feasible
period of time;
   (D)   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size such that
adequate erosion and siltation controls can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any one
period of time;
   (E)   Erosion and siltation control measures shall be coordinated with the
different stages of development. Appropriate control measures shall be
installed prior to development when necessary to control erosion;
   (F)   Provision shall be made to effectively accommodate the increased
runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after
development;
   (G)   Sediment basins, debris basins, desilting basins or silt traps shall
be installed and maintained to remove sediment from runoff waters undergoing
development;
   (H)   Temporary vegetation or where appropriate mulching or other non-viable
cover shall be used to protect areas exposed during development;
   (I)   Where the topsoil is removed, sufficient arable soil shall be set
aside for respreading over the developed area. The soil shall be restored to a
depth of four inches and shall be of a quality at least equal to the soil
quality prior to development; and
   (J)   Permanent, final plant covering or structures shall be installed as
soon as possible.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-12)
§ 154.034 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements of not less than seven and one-half feet in width shall be
provided on each side of all rear lot lines and alongside lot lines where
necessary for storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water and other mains, and for
electric and telephone lines or for other public utilities. Easements of
greater width may be required along or across lots when necessary for the
extension of main sewers or other utilities or where both water and sewer lines
are located in the same easement. A two-foot easement shall be required on one
side of and adjacent to an alley to accommodate pole lines.
   (B)   Adequate easements for storm water drainage shall be established along
any natural drainage channel and in such other locations as may be necessary to
provide satisfactory disposal of storm water from streets, alleys and all other
portions of the subdivision. The location and minimum widths of the easements
shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   No tree, shrub or building shall be placed or erected in any easement
for utility or drainage purposes or within the right-of-way of any street,
except at the owner's risk as to all costs for demolition, removal or
reconstruction, and the proper authorities may have free access to and use of
the easements at any time.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-13)
§ 154.035 BLOCKS; CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   No block shall be longer than 1,800 feet or less than 500 feet in
length, except where the continuity of the existing neighborhood would be
disrupted.
   (B)   All blocks, whenever it is deemed essential to provide access to
schools, playgrounds, shopping centers and other community facilities, shall
have a crosswalk with a right-of-way of at least ten feet in width near the
center of the block. See §
154.059 below.
   (C)   The length, width and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to building sites, land use, zoning requirements, access, safety and
convenience.
   (D)   Where a subdivision adjoins an arterial or collector, the greater
dimension of the block shall generally front or back upon the arterial or
collector to avoid unnecessary ingress or egress.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-14)
§ 154.036 PARKS AND OTHER PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   Where any area is specifically designated on the Comprehensive Plan of
the village, for a public park, playground, school or other public use, and is
owned by the subdivider, the area shall be reserved for the use on all
subdivision plans and plats; and the acquisition of the area may then be
secured by the Village Board or arrangements be made for its acquisition within
a period not to exceed one year from the date of approval of the final plan.
The value of the lands shall be established by three qualified appraisers; one
of whom shall be appointed by the Plan Commission, one appointed by the
subdivider, and one of whom shall be mutually agreed upon by the other two.
   (B)   Should the Village Board decide to take the premises, then and in that
case, it shall make arrangements to pay the subdivider the appraised value
therefor as determined by the above described appraisers, or a sum that is
mutually agreed upon. The Village Board may accept any donation of land as
above described should the subdivider desire to contribute the same to the
village.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-15)
§ 154.037 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Source of domestic water supply and type of sewage disposal.
   (B)   Storm water drainage.
      (1)   Complete storm sewer system, including pipe sizes, inlets and
inverts.
      (2)   A proposed surface water drainage pattern for each individual lot,
block and street.
   (C)   All easements as required shall be indicated.
   (D)   An outline of all proposed protective covenants shall accompany the
preliminary plan and shall include a protection against the obstruction of any
surface water drainage easement.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-16)
§ 154.038 LOTS.
   (A)   All lots in a subdivision shall conform to the minimum lot area and
dimensions requirements of the zoning district in which the subdivision is
located; land that is under water or reserved for street improvements shall not
be counted in determining compliance with requirements. See Zoning Code.
   (B)   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will
provide satisfactory and desirable building sites, property related to
topography and the character of surrounding development.
   (C)   All side lines of lots shall be at right angles to straight street
right-of-way lines and radial to curved street right-of-way lines, except where
a variation of this rule will provide a better street and lot design.
   (D)   All remnants of lots below minimum lot area size left over after
subdividing of a larger tract shall be added to adjacent lots, rather than
allowing to remain as unusable land, except when designated for utility
purposes or accepted for public space for park or other public uses.
   (E)   Lots which cannot be served by either a public or private sanitary
sewer, and/or a public water system, shall comply with the applicable
provisions of the applicable Zoning Code or shall be not less than one acre in
size per lot or household unit, whichever is greater. The lots shall have a
width of not less than 125 feet or a depth in excess of three times its width,
unless otherwise permitted and approved by the Plan Commission.
   (F)   Lots with double frontage should be avoided where possible. Corner
lots and lots with double frontage shall have extra dimension sufficient to
permit the establishment of front building setback lines on the adjoining
streets.
   (G)   The subdividing of the land shall be such as to provide each lot with
satisfactory access to public streets. The Plan Commission may require
additional reservation of land to ensure adequate access to prevent land
locking of the adjoining territory.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-17)
§ 154.039 CHECKLIST COMPLETED.
   (A)   General. In order to qualify for approval, the preliminary plan shall
be accompanied by a properly executed checklist as shown in §
154.115.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-20)
   (B)   Changes or revisions. The Plan Commission and/or Zoning Administrator
may recommend or the Village Board may require changes or revisions as are
deemed necessary in the interests and needs of the community.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-21)
   (C)   Approval; tentative. The approval of a preliminary plan by the Plan
Commission and the Village Board is tentative only, involving merely the
general acceptability of the layout as submitted.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-22)
   (D)   Certificate. Approval shall consist of a certificate to that effect on
the preliminary plan signed by the Chairperson of the Plan Commission and by
the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 34-2-23)
ENGINEERING PLANS
§ 154.050 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Within 12 months after receiving approval of the preliminary plan by
the Village Board, there shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator by the
subdivider, four copies of the engineering plans and specifications as required
in §§
154.025 through
154.039 above.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall immediately refer two copies to the
Mayor and shall notify the Village Board of this action at the next regular
Village Board meeting. In the event of a special problem, the Plan Commission
shall notify the owner or subdivider of the time and place at which he or she
shall be afforded an opportunity of being heard.
   (C)   The Plan Commission shall make its recommendation to the Village
Board, within 45 days after receipt of engineering drawings and specifications.
   (D)   In the event of disapproval of the engineering plans and
specifications by the Plan Commission, the same shall be immediately returned
so marked to the Zoning Administrator for return to the subdivider, and may be
re-filed with the Zoning Administrator after necessary revisions are made.
(1994 Code, § 34-3-1)
§ 154.051 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF IMPROVEMENT; GENERALLY.
   Utility and street improvements shall be provided by the subdivider in each
new subdivision in accordance with the standards and requirements described in
the following section. The requirements set forth below shall be considered as
minimum requirements and nothing contained herein shall be construed to mean
that the subdivider cannot construct or provide improvements of a higher type.
(1994 Code, § 34-3-4)
§ 154.052 REFERENCE MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Permanent monuments shall be of concrete four inches by four inches by
30 inches, with a half-inch iron pin cast in the center, set in such a manner
that they will not be moved by frost and shall be placed in the field as
required by the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   (B)   All lot corners shall be marked by one-half inch iron pins not less
than 30 inches in length and driven into the ground and shall not protrude
above the ground surface more than one and one-half inches.
   (C)   These monuments must be placed at all corners, at the end of all
curves, at the point where a curve changes its radius, at all angle points
along a meander line, the points to be not less than 20 feet back from the
normal water elevation of a lake or from the bank of a stream, except that when
the corners or points fall within a street or proposed future street, the
monuments must be placed in the right-of-way line of the street. All internal
boundaries, corners and points must be monumented in the field by like
monuments as defined above.
(1994 Code, § 34-3-5)
§ 154.053 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   All streets shall be graded as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   Generally. All new streets, which are created and dedicated for use
within a subdivision shall be graded, drained and surfaced in accordance with
the minimum requirements hereinbelow set forth and in a manner which will
provide complete and adequate drainage of all the streets, alleys and public
grounds which may be necessary in order to provide adequate and satisfactory
drainage along the side of any existing public street which lies adjacent to
the subdivision. In general, all the new streets within the subdivision and all
work to be undertaken thereon shall be designed and constructed according to
the specifications adopted by the State Department of Transportation; as the
same are in effect at the time the preliminary plat and plans for such
improvement work are submitted for approval.
   (B)   Grading roadway and side slopes. The roadway shall be considered to be
that part of the improvement which lies between the right-of-way lines, and
which roadway shall not be less than 50 feet in width on local streets and 60
feet on collector streets.
   (C)   Combination concrete curb and gutter. Combination concrete curb and
gutter shall be built in accordance with the detail shown on Figure 3. The
minimum distance from back to back of curbs shall be 36 feet on local streets
and 40 feet on collector streets.
   (D)   Street construction standards. All streets within the jurisdictional
authority of the village other than state highways shall be improved with
pavements bounded by integral concrete curbs and gutter, in accordance with the
following criteria:
      (1)   Specifications.
 
Street Type           Dedicated Street Pavement Width    Pavement Type
                      Width
Arterial (primary)    80 feet          50 feet           Bituminous surface
                                                         treatment or concrete
Collector (secondary) 60 feet          36 feet (one-side Bituminous surface
                                       parking)          treatment or concrete
Local (minor)         50 feet          32 feet (one-side Bituminous surface
                                       parking)          treatment or concrete
Cul-de-sac            50 feet          27 feet           Bituminous surface
                                                         treatment or concrete
 
      (2)   Collector street pavements shall be provided with a bituminous
surface of one and one-half inches of bituminous concrete binder and one and
one-half inches of bituminous concrete surface course Class 1 placed upon a
crush stone base course of CA #6, having a minimum thickness of six inches
compacted. The center 40 feet of the base course shall have a crown of three
inches.
      (3)   Local street pavements shall be provided with a CA #6 crushed stone
base course, having a minimum thickness of seven inches compacted. An A-
2 surface treatment shall be applied in accordance with the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction of the State of Illinois,
Department of Transportation.
      (4)   The crushed stone base course shall be permitted to remain
throughout one winter season before the bituminous surface is placed thereon.
Following inspection of the base and subbase as to compaction and thickness of
the base by the administrative officer, he may, by authority in writing to the
subdivider, waive the winter season waiting period. Compaction based on percent
of optimum density.
      (5)   The subdivider shall be required to improve arterial or primary
streets only to the width required by the current and immediate needs of his or
her subdivision consistent to the standards and specifications herein
contained. (See
Appendix).
   (E)   Alleys. Alleys where permitted or required shall be constructed as
specified for local streets.
   (F)   Utility lines. Underground utilities in streets or rights-of-way or in
easements shall be installed prior to the construction of the streets and/or
alleys. Wherever possible, utilities will be placed in rear lot easements with
street placement permitted in only the most unusual circumstances.
(1994 Code, § 34-3-6)
§ 154.054 STORM SEWERS AND OTHER DRAINAGE APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   In addition to the installation of curbs or gutters along the streets,
as required by §
154.053(C) above, storm sewer systems shall be constructed throughout the
entire subdivision to carry off water from all inlets and catch basins, and
shall be connected to an adequate outfall.
   (B)   The sewers shall provide for an extension to land lying within the
upland drainage area, whether the land is within the subdivision or not. Storm
sewers shall be designed by the rational method; and copies of the design
computations shall be submitted with the plans. Inlets shall be provided so
that surface water is not carried across or around any intersection, nor for a
distance of more than 600 feet in the gutter.
   (C)   The storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent of
the sanitary sewer system. Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown for
each and every individual lot and block.
(1994 Code, § 34-3-7)
§ 154.055 PUBLIC UTILITY ENGINEERING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All proposed water and sanitary sewer facilities shall comply with the
minimum requirements and recommendations of the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency of the state and the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   When a proposed subdivision is reasonably accessible to a public sewer
system and/or distribution system, the subdivider shall provide the subdivision
with a complete sanitary sewer system and/or water distribution system to be
connected to the proper public system(s).
(1994 Code, § 34-3-8)
§ 154.056 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   All sewer plans and installations shall conform to the standards and
specifications set forth in The Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois as established by the State Society of
Professional Engineers.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer lines shall be installed to serve all properties in the
subdivision, except subdivisions where individual sewage disposal systems are
permitted by the Village Board.
   (C)   Where sanitary sewer mains of larger capacity than necessary to serve
the subdivision as delineated in the preliminary plan are required to serve the
future growth in the vicinity of the subdivision, as determined by the Village
Board, the village shall then reimburse the subdivider for the difference in
cost of the smaller size pipe and the larger size pipe; the larger size to be
determined by the Village Board.
   (D)   Each lot in the subdivision shall be provided at the property line
with a connection to the public sanitary sewer system. The construction of the
sewer system shall conform to the approved plans and specifications and all
work should be properly inspected and approved by the Zoning Administrator.
This prevents the street from being torn up after construction.
(1994 Code, § 34-3-9)
§ 154.057 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   All water main plans and installations, including all appurtenances
thereto, shall conform to The Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois, as established by the State Society of Professional
Engineers.
   (B)   Water distribution facilities including all pipe, fittings, hydrants,
valves, vaults and the like, shall be installed to serve all properties within
the subdivision.
   (C)   Where water mains of larger capacity than necessary to serve the
subdivision as delineated in the preliminary plan are required to serve the
future growth in the vicinity of the subdivision, as determined by the Village
Board, the village shall then reimburse the difference in cost of the smaller
size and the larger size pipe; the larger size to be determined by the Village
Board.
   (D)   The construction of the water system shall conform to the approved
plans and specifications and all work shall be properly inspected and approved
by the Village Engineer. Water service line shall be extended to each lot in
the subdivision prior to the village accepting the streets for maintenance.
   (E)   Fire hydrants shall be located and installed by the subdivider with
the approval of the Fire Chief, as part of the water distribution system.
Installation of hydrants shall be accomplished in such a manner that each lot
is within 400 feet of the fire hydrant when measured along the center line of
the right-of-way. No fire hydrant shall be placed on a main smaller than six
inches in diameter. Hydrants installed shall be of the type approved by the
Chief of the Fire Department.
(1994 Code, § 34-3-10)
§ 154.058 STREET NAMES AND SIGNS.
   (A)   Street names. The names of new streets shall be sufficiently different
in sound and spelling from the names of existing streets in the village to
avoid confusion. A street which is planned as a continuation of an existing
street shall bear the same name as the existing street.
   (B)   Street name signs.
      (1)   Street name signs shall be erected by the developer at all
intersections within or abutting the subdivision with the approval of the
Street Superintendent.
      (2)   Signs shall be embossed steel U.S. Standard Street Signs (or the
equivalent thereof) measuring six inches by 24 inches, with the lettering at
least four inches high.
      (3)   All street name signs shall be mounted on two-inch diameter
galvanized pipe set in concrete to a depth of at least three feet and extending
above the surface to a height of at least seven feet.
(1994 Code, § 34-3-11)
§ 154.059 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   All utility lines for telephone and electric service shall be placed in
rear-line easements when carried on overhead poles.
(1994 Code, § 34-3-12)
§ 154.060 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Concrete sidewalks not less than four inches in thickness and four
feet in width may be constructed within the street right-of-way and adjacent to
the property line.
   (B)   In the event a crosswalk is required in accordance with §
154.035 above, a concrete sidewalk not less than four inches in thickness and
four feet in width shall be constructed and at a grade no steeper than 15%
unless steps of adequate design are provided.
(1994 Code, § 34-3-13)
§ 154.061 CHECKLIST.
   In order to qualify for approval, the engineering plans shall be accompanied
by a properly executed checklist as shown in §
154.116.
(1994 Code, § 34-3-16)
§ 154.062 CHANGES OR REVISIONS.
   The Plan Commission may recommend or the Village Board may require changes
or revisions as are deemed necessary in the interest and needs of the
community.
(1994 Code, § 34-3-17)
§ 154.063 APPROVAL; TENTATIVE.
   (A)   The Plan Commission may grant approval of the total required
engineering plans by approval of plans covering only a portion of the land
improvements (e.g., sanitary sewers and water) so as to facilitate immediate
installations.
   (B)   This partial approval shall consist of a certificate on the plans
covering each of the required improvements signed by the Plan Commission.
(1994 Code, § 34-3-18)
§ 154.064 LETTER OF APPROVAL.
   Final approval of the complete set of engineering plans shall consist of a
letter of approval from the Plan Commission, listing thereon:
   (A)   Type of improvement(s) covered by the plan;
   (B)   Name of designing engineer; and
   (C)   Date of preparation and revision, if any.
(1994 Code, § 34-3-19)
FINAL PLATS
§ 154.075 PROCEDURE; SUBDIVIDER.
   (A)   Generally. Within six months after receiving approval of the
engineering plans and specifications by the Plan Commission, or a period of
time beyond six months that may be granted by the Village Board, there shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator by the subdivider, the original drawing,
one transparency print and four copies of the final plat, which shall also
contain all required signed certifications, other than signed certificates of
approval by the Plan Commission, the Village Board, and the Zoning
Administrator. It shall contain the necessary documents as may be necessary
concerning the form of guarantees or performance bond to be used. The final
plat shall retain the overall characteristics of the preliminary plan and may
include all or part of the area shown on the preliminary plan. The Zoning
Administrator shall refer the original drawing and two copies of the final plat
to the Plan Commission, and one copy of the final plat to the Superintendent of
Utilities, at least ten days prior to their next regularly scheduled meeting
for recommendation as to final approval. In the event of a special problem, the
Plan Commission shall notify the owner or subdivider as to the time and place
of the Plan Commission meeting at which time he or she will be afforded an
opportunity of being heard.
   (B)   Plan Commission action. The Plan Commission shall review the final
plat and plans and transmit their report of findings and recommendations to the
Village Board within 30 days of the filing date of the final plat. The action
of the Plan Commission, whether approval or disapproval of the final plat, as
well as the date of the action, shall be noted in writing and attached to the
final plat. If the final plat is disapproved, the reasons why shall be so
stated.
   (C)   Village Board action. The Village Board shall take action on the final
plat within 60 days from the date of the subdivider's filing of the last
required document or other paper or within 60 days from the date of the
subdivider's filing application for approval of the final plat, whichever date
is later, unless the time is extended by written mutual consent.
   (D)   Disapproval. If the final plat is disapproved by the Village Board,
the reasons for that action shall be noted in writing by resolution, stating
the reasons for disapproval, specifying with particularity the aspects in which
the final plat fails to conform with the village's ordinances.
   (E)   Posting performance bond. If the final plat is approved by the Village
Board, the final plat shall be held by the Village Clerk until such time the
subdivider posts a performance guarantee bond.
   (F)   Receipt.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the performance guarantee or bond, the Mayor shall
affix his or her signature to the final plat and attach thereto a notation that
the final plat has received final approval of the Village Board; the Clerk
shall attest the signature of the Mayor and affix the seal and attach a
certified copy of the Village Board's resolution of approval to the approved
final plat.
      (2)   If the performance guarantee or bond is not posted by the
subdivider within 60 days from the date of approval of the final plat by the
Village Board, approval of the final plat shall expire and become null and
void.
(1994 Code, § 34-4-1)
§ 154.076 REQUIREMENTS OF SUBDIVIDER.
   The final plat to be provided by the subdivider shall meet the following
specifications.
   (A)   The final plat may include all or only a part of the preliminary plat
which has received approval.
   (B)   The final plat shall be drawn on new linen tracing cloth, Mylar or a
polyester-base film with waterproof black ink to a scale of not greater than
100 feet to one inch, provided, however, that if the resulting drawing would be
over 42 inches square, a scale of up to 200 feet to one inch may be used.
   (C)   Four black or blue line prints shall be submitted with the original
tracing of the final plat, or in order to conform to modern drafting and
reproductive methods, four black or blue line prints and reproducible cloth or
film positives of the final plat shall be submitted. Prints filed with the
village shall include one black or blue line print made after recording of the
final plat and bearing the official stamp attesting the fact of the recording;
and one reproducible print or film positive of the final plat, as approved.
   (D)   All dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot and/or
meters.
   (E)   All surveys for a final plat shall be made under the active and
personal direction of a state registered land surveyor, and the following basic
information shall be shown:
      (1)   Accurate boundary lines with dimensions and bearings or angles
which provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of closure of not
more than one foot in 5,000 feet;
      (2)   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest established
official monument. Reference corners shall be accurately described on the final
plat;
      (3)   All elevations shall be referenced to the established datum and the
reference shall be clearly stated on any plans or drawings showing that datum,
provided that bench marks are located within a reasonable distance;
      (4)   Accurate metes and bounds description of the boundary and the
included area of the subdivision to the nearest one-hundredth of an acre;
      (5)   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting the boundaries of the tract, shown by heavy solid lines;
      (6)   Right-of-way lines of streets, easements and other rights-of-way
and property lines and areas of lots and other tracts, with accurate
dimensions, bearings and curve data, including radii, arcs and chords, points
of tangency and central angles;
      (7)   Name and right-of-way width for each street or other right-of-way;
      (8)   Location, dimensions and purposes of any easement, shown by light,
dashed lines;
      (9)   Number to identify each lot or site;
      (10)   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots are dedicated
or reserved;
      (11)   Lot dimensions and areas of each lot and building setback lines
and dimensions;
      (12)   Location, type, material and size of all monuments and lot
markers;
      (13)   Names of owners and mortgages accepting the plat with owner or
owners personally signing all plans;
      (14)   Names of owners of record of adjoining unplatted lands;
      (15)   Reference to recorded subdivision plats within 300 feet of
adjoining platted land by record name, date and number;
      (16)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become
covenants in the deeds for lots. Restriction lines should be shown by medium,
dashed lines;
      (17)   Title or name of subdivision; section, township and range numbers
in which the subdivision is located; and north arrow, scale and date; and
      (18)   Certification as required by §
154.077 below.
(1994 Code, § 34-4-3)
§ 154.077 APPROPRIATE CERTIFICATES.
   The following shall be completed as required by this chapter:
   (A)   Owner's certificate.
OWNER'S CERTIFICATE
   We _________________________________, the owners of
(_______________________), have caused the said tract to be surveyed and
subdivided in the manner shown, and said subdivision is to be hereinafter known
as ____________________________________. All rights-of-way and easements shown
hereon are hereby dedicated to the use of the public forever, including the
release and waiver of the right of homestead under the Homestead Exemption laws
of the State of Illinois.
Dated this __________ day of ___________________________, 20 ______.
_____________________________________ (SEAL)
_____________________________________ (SEAL)
   (B)   Notary public's certificate.
NOTARY PUBLIC'S CERTIFICATE
State of Illinois      )
               )   SS
County of ________   )
   I, ________________________, Notary Public, in and for said County in the
State aforesaid, do hereby certify that personally known by me to be the same
persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument as such owners,
appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that they signed and
delivered this plat as their own free and voluntary act for the uses and
purposes therein set forth.
Given under my hand and notarial seal this ________ day of _________________,
20 _____, at ______
____________________________________________________________________________________.
_________________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC
   (C)   Surveyor's certificate.
SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
State of Illinois            )
                     ) ss
County of ______________   )
   I, ______________________________, a registered Illinois Land Surveyor, do
hereby certify that this plat is a correct representation of a survey and
subdivision made under my direct supervision at the request of
___________________________________, for the purpose of subdividing the tract
into lots as shown.
_________________________________________________
Illinois Land Surveyor
_________________________________________________
Registration Number
_________________________________________________
Date
   (D)   County Clerk's certificate.
COUNTY CLERK'S CERTIFICATE
State of Illinois      )
               ) SS
County of ________   )
   I, ______________________, County Clerk of ___________ County,
_______________, do hereby certify that there are no delinquent general taxes,
no unpaid forfeited taxes and no redeemable tax sales against any of the land
included in the attached plat.
   I further certify that I have received all statutory fees in connection with
the attached plat.
   Given under my hand and seal at _______, this _______ day of ___________, 20
_____.
________________________
County Clerk
________________________
Date
   (E)   Certificate of the Village Board.
CERTIFICATE OF THE VILLAGE BOARD
State of Illinois      )
               ) SS
County of ________   )
   I, ____________________________, Mayor of the Village of
_____________________, do hereby certify that the Plat shown herein was duly
presented to the Village Board and approved at a meeting of the same held on
_________________________, 20____.
                  (date)
________________________________________MAYOR
___________________________________CITY CLERK
   (F)   Flood hazard certificate.
FLOOD HAZARD CERTIFICATE
State of Illinois         )
                  ) ss
County of ____________   )
   We, the undersigned, do hereby certify that no part of this plat to be
recorded is situated within 500 feet of any surface drain or watercourse
serving a tributary area of 640 acres or more, or, if this plat is within 500
feet of any surface drain or watercourse, we do hereby certify that this plat
has been reviewed by the Illinois Department of Transportation Division of
Water Resources and their reports are on file with the Recorder of Deeds of
_______________________ County.
By:    ____________________________________
   Owner(s)
By:   ____________________________________
   Illinois Land Surveyor
   ____________________________________
   Registration Number
   ____________________________________
   Date
   (G)   Plan Commission certificate.
PLAN COMMISSION CERTIFICATE
State of Illinois      )
               )   SS
County of_________   )
   Approved this ___________ day of _________________________, 20____.
_____________________________________   (CHAIRMAN)
_____________________________________   (SECRETARY)
      PLAN COMMISSION
   (H)   Superintendents of Water, Sewer and Streets.
SUPERINTENDENTS OF WATER, SEWER AND STREETS
State of Illinois         )
                  )   SS
County of ___________   )
   We, the Superintendents do hereby certify that the required improvements
have been installed or the required guarantee bond has been posted for the
completion of all land improvements.
___________________________________________
Water Superintendent
___________________________________________
Sewer Superintendent
___________________________________________
Street Superintendent
Dated this _________ day of ________________________, 20______.
(1994 Code, § 34-4-4)
§ 154.078 REQUIREMENTS OF FINAL PLAT.
   In order to qualify for approval, the final plat shall be accompanied by the
following:
   (A)   A properly executed checklist as shown in Schedule "C" in §
154.117 below.
   (B)   Detailed specifications for all required land improvements other than
those specifications submitted and approved with the engineering plans.
   (C)   A copy of the State Environmental Agency's permit for the sanitary
sewer installation.
   (D)   A copy of the State Environmental Agency's approval for the water main
installation.
   (E)   An affidavit executed by the owner and/or subdivider accepting the
responsibility for the installation of the improvements as shown on the
approved engineering plans and covered by the specifications and permits
required above. This affidavit shall include a stipulation by the subdivider of
the installation of all land improvements in the person of a registered
engineer.
   (F)   A certified estimate of cost of all required land improvements
prepared by a registered engineer.
   (G)   A description of the bond or guarantee collateral intended to be
submitted as required in the following division.
(1994 Code, § 34-4-6)
§ 154.079 GUARANTEES TO VILLAGE.
   (A)   After the Village Board has approved the final plat with respect to
the above qualifications, the subdivider shall be so notified by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   Final approval and signature by the Mayor and the Zoning Administrator
shall be contingent upon the receipt by the village of guarantee by the owner
and/or subdivider to the village for the completion of all land improvements
yet remaining to be installed within 60 days of the approval of the final plat.
      (1)   Deposit with the village a subdivider's bond in the amount of the
estimated cost of the land improvements; the bond need never exceed one and
one-half times the estimated cost of the improvements remaining to be
completed.
      (2)   Deposit with the village, cash in the amount of the estimated cost
of the land improvements; said amount of cash need never exceed one and one-
half times the estimated cost of the improvements remaining to be completed.
Subdivider shall execute "an undertaking in lieu of a bond" provided for in §
154.119 and an "irrevocable commitment" from a financial institution as
provided for in §
154.119.
      (3)   Deposit with the village a lien to be recorded in the County
Recorder's Office on all property being subdivided, with the provision that
partial release may be obtained when the loaning company executes with the
village an agreement to withhold one and one-half times the estimated cost of
the land improvements yet remaining to be installed, in escrow, until such time
as all land improvements have been completed and accepted by the village. All
expenses incurred in determining the amounts apportioned against the land and
the cost of releasing each lot or tract shall be paid by the subdivider.
      (4)   Deposit with the village other collateral equivalent to one and
one-half times the estimated cost of land improvements yet remaining to be
installed, the collateral to be approved by the Village Board.
(1994 Code, § 34-4-9)
§ 154.080 CONSTRUCTION TIME CONSTRAINTS.
   All required land improvements shall be installed and completed within a
period of two years after the recording of the final plat. Failure of the
subdivider to complete all of the improvements within this two-year period
shall result in forfeiture of the guarantee collateral unless an extension of
time is requested by the subdivider and granted by the Village Board. In the
event of failure to complete the improvements in the required period, as stated
above, the Village Board may direct that no further building permits be issued
for property in the subdivision pending satisfaction of the Village Board in
regard to the status of the required land improvements.
(1994 Code, § 34-4-10)
§ 154.081 INSPECTION.
   (A)   All required land improvements to be installed under the provisions of
this chapter shall be checked during the course of construction, by or at the
direction of the Zoning Administrator or his or her designated representative.
   (B)   The cost of any reinspection of any required land improvement found to
be faulty or not in accordance with the approved plans and specifications shall
be paid by the subdivider to the village. The testing of any concrete, asphalt,
soil or other materials and workmanship shall be done at the direction of the
village and at the expense of the subdivider.
(1994 Code, § 34-4-11)
§ 154.082 RELEASE OF BOND.
   The subdivider's bond or guarantee collateral shall be released only upon
fulfillment of the following conditions:
   (A)   The completion of all required land improvements;
   (B)   The submission of four copies of acceptable "as-built" drawings of all
land improvements;
   (C)   An affidavit to the effect that:
      (1)   All materials, labor and other costs have been paid, or
arrangements have been made for payment so as to hold the village free from any
obligations for payment of any costs of the land improvements; and
      (2)   That the subdivider accepts responsibility for the maintenance and
repair of all land improvements for one year after the date of the acceptance
resolution by the Village Board.
   (D)   Final acceptance, by resolution by the Village Board of all land
improvements.
(1994 Code, § 34-4-12)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.095 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator referred to herein as "the Administrator" is
hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   This broad responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to the
following specific duties:
      (1)   To review and forward preliminary and final plats to the Plan
Commission;
      (2)   To transmit improvement plans to the Village Engineer for his or
her review;
      (3)   To issue stop orders as necessary when the Village Engineer
determines that approved improvements are being constructed in violation of
this chapter;
      (4)   To pursue actions authorized in this chapter when a developer fails
to complete required improvements;
      (5)   To evaluate and make decisions concerning proposed minor changes in
approved final plats;
      (6)   To review and forward applications for subdivision variances to the
Plan Commission;
      (7)   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter to determine
whether revisions are needed, and to make recommendations to the Plan
Commission as necessary;
      (8)   To maintain up-to-date records of matters pertaining to this
chapter, including, but not limited to, preliminary plats, as-built records of
completed improvements, final plats, variances and amendments; and
      (9)   To provide information to subdividers/developers and to the general
public on matters related to this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 34-5-1)
§ 154.096 SUBDIVISION VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any subdivider/developer desiring a variance from the requirements of
this chapter shall file a written application therefor with the Zoning
Administrator at the same time that he or she files his or her preliminary
plat.
   (B)   The application shall fully explain the grounds for the variance
request, and specify the section(s) of this chapter which, if strictly applied,
would cause great practical difficulties or hardship.
   (C)   The Administrator shall prepare an advisory report on variance
application and submit it, together with the completed application to the Plan
Commission.
      (1)   Review by Plan Commission. The Plan Commission shall review the
variance application and the Administrator's comments, and submit their
advisory report to the Village Board, together with their recommendation on
preliminary plat approval. The Plan Commission's advisory report shall be
responsive to all the variances standards set forth in division (C)(2) below.
      (2)   Action by City Council; variance standards.
         (a)   At the same meeting at which they take action on the application
for preliminary plat approval, the Village Board shall decide by resolution
whether to grant or deny the requested subdivision variance.
         (b)   A copy of their decision, clearly stating their reasons therefor
and the act terms of any variance granted shall be attached to both the
preliminary and final plats.
         (c)   The Village Board shall not grant any subdivision variance
unless, based upon the information presented to them, they determine that:
            1.   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes
of this chapter;
            2.   Strict application of the subdivision design and improvement
requirements would result in great practical difficulties or hardship to the
applicant, not a mere inconvenience;
            3.   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from the
subdivision requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardships;
            4.   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances
not of his or her own making;
            5.   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request
are not applicable to other tracts, and therefore, that a variance would be a
more appropriate remedy than an amendment; and
            6.   The variance, if granted, will not substantially impair
implementation of the village community plan, including the official map.
(1994 Code, § 34-5-2)
§ 154.097 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this chapter may be proposed by the Zoning Administrator, any
member of the Village Board, any Plan Commission member, or any party in
interest. Every amendment proposal shall be filed on a prescribed form in the
Administrator's office. The Administrator shall promptly transmit each
proposal, together with any comments or recommendations he or she may wish to
make to the Plan Commission for a public hearing.
(1994 Code, § 34-5-3)
§ 154.098 ADVISORY REPORT; ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   Within a reasonable time after the public hearing, the Plan Commission shall
submit an advisory report to the Village Board. The Village Board shall act on
the proposed amendment at their next regularly scheduled meeting following
submission of this report. Without another public hearing, the Village Board
may either pass or reject the proposed amendment or may refer it back to the
Plan Commission for further consideration.
(1994 Code, § 34-5-4)
§ 154.099 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   All fees indicated in tabular form below shall be paid to the Village Clerk.
The fees are intended to defray the administrative costs connected with the
processing/conducting of the listed item. They do not constitute a tax or other
revenue-raising device.
 
Procedure                 Fee
Filing preliminary plat   $25
Filing improvement plans  $25
Improvement inspection    Actual engineering
Filing final plat         $25
Filing variance request   $50
Filing amendment proposal $25
 
(1994 Code, § 34-5-5)
§ 154.100 RECORDING.
   The Village Clerk shall not accept a final plat for filing with the County
Recorder of Deeds unless the following conditions are met.
   (A)   The final plat conforms to all requirements specified by the Village
Board as conditions of approval.
   (B)   The final plat meets the design standards and engineering
specifications set forth herein.
   (C)   The final plat meets all requirements of the laws of the state.
   (D)   The subdivider or applicant establishes sufficient proof of his or her
intent and ability to post a guarantee or performance bond or bonds with the
village equal to the estimated construction cost of all improvements intended
to be dedicated to the village for maintenance and operation.
   (E)   No subdivision plat or re-plat of land within the jurisdiction of the
village shall be filed for record or recorded in the Office of the County
Recorder of Deeds unless and until the approval of the Village Board is
endorsed therein by the Village Clerk.
      (1)   No lot shall be sold for the subdivision plat or re-plat until it
has been approved by the Village Board and filed for record in the Office of
the County Recorder of Deeds as herein provided.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall file the approved final plat and ordinance
with the County Recorder of Deeds, not more than 30 days from the date of
posting of and not prior to the posting of the performance guarantee or bond as
required by §§
154.079 and
154.080; two copies of the final plat and ordinance shall be kept on file by
the Village Clerk; one copy filed with the Zoning Administrator; and one copy
shall be returned to the subdivider.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for the County Recorder to accept for
recording any plat of a subdivision within the incorporated area of the village
or unincorporated lands lying within area of jurisdiction of the village until
the plat has been approved as required herein and the approval has been
endorsed in writing on the plat.
      (4)   The Village Board shall not permit any public improvements under
its jurisdiction to be constructed or maintained within an area that has been
subdivided after the adoption of this chapter unless the subdivision has been
approved in accordance with the requirements contained herein.
      (5)   No building and zoning occupancy permit shall be issued by the
Zoning Administrator, village or county for the construction of any building,
structure or improvement to the land or any lot within the subdivision as
defined herein, until all requirements herein have been fully complied with.
(1994 Code, § 34-5-6)
§ 154.101 VACATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   In accordance with state law, any plat or part thereof may be vacated
by the owner of the tract, at any time before the sale of any lot therein, by a
written vacation instrument to which a copy of the plat is attached. If there
are public service facilities in any street, other public way, or easement
shown on the plat, the instrument shall reserve to the village or other public
entity or public utility owning the facilities the property, rights-of-way and
easements necessary for continuing public service by means of those facilities
and for maintaining or reconstructing the same.
   (B)   The vacation instrument shall be approved by the Village Board in the
same manner as plats of subdivision and shall also be approved by the County
Superintendent of Highways, the Highway Commissioner of the appropriate
township, and the public utilities involved. In the case of the platted tracts
wherein any lots have been sold, the written vacation instrument must also be
signed by all the owners of lots in those tracts.
(ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, §§ 6, 7 and 8) (1994 Code, § 34-5-7)
§ 154.102 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The subdivider/developer shall maintain all the improvements in the
subdivision until he, she or they have been accepted by and dedicated to the
village or other appropriate entity.
   (B)   Prior to dedication, the subdivider/developer shall post a maintenance
bond with the Village Clerk in the form approved by the Village Attorney.
      (1)   The bond shall be in the amount determined by the Village Engineer
to be sufficient to guarantee the satisfactory condition of the required
improvements for a period of two years from the date of their acceptance and
dedication.
      (2)   If, at any time during the two-year period, the improvements are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired/replaced at the subdivider's/
developer's expense.
      (3)   If the subdivider/developer fails or refuses to pay such costs
within 90 days after demand is made upon him or her by the Zoning
Administrator, the village shall use the maintenance bond to make the necessary
repairs/replacements.
      (4)   If the cost of the repairs/replacements exceeds the bond amount,
the subdivider/developer shall be liable for the excess. At the end of the two-
year period, the maintenance bond shall be released.
(1994 Code, § 34-5-8)
SCHEDULES AND BONDS
§ 154.115 CHECKLIST FOR PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   The following is the checklist for a preliminary plan.
   (A)   __________________________________________ (Name of Subdivision);
   (B)   __________________________________________ (Date of Submission);
   (C)   ___________________________________________ (Due Date of
Recommendation - 60 Days);
   (D)   (NOTE): To properly execute this checklist, the subdivider or his or
her engineer shall:
      (1)   Insert the required information.
      (2)   Denote compliance with applicable ordinances by placing his or her
initials in all spaces where applicable.
      (3)   Denote those items which the subdivider considers "Not Applicable"
to this particular subdivision by the abbreviation "N.A.")
         (a)   ________   Six copies of preliminary plan submitted.
         (b)   ________   Plans conform to §
154.029.
         (c)   ________   Plan scale is not less than 1" to 100'.
         (d)   ________   Minimum profile scale is 1" to 100' horizontal and 1"
to 10' vertical.
         (e)   ________   A title sheet is included with each set of
preliminary plans.
         (f)   ________   Name of proposed subdivision shown.
         (g)   ________   Location given by town, range, section or other legal
description.
         (h)   ________   Name and address of owner, trust, corporation or
subdivider having control of project is shown.
         (i)   ________   Name and seal of registered engineer or surveyor who
prepared topographic survey is shown.
         (j)   ________   Name and address of the designer of the plan is
shown.
         (k)   ________   North direction is shown.
         (l)   ________   Date of preparation and date of revision, if any, is
shown.
         (m)   ________   A location map is included indicating:
            1.   ________   A scale of not less than 1" to 1,000'.
            2.   ________   Boundary lines of adjoining land within an area
bounded by the nearest arterial streets or other natural boundaries.
            3.   ________   Use of surrounding land.
            4.   ________   Ownership of the surrounding land.
            5.   ________   Alignment of existing streets.
            6.   ________   Section and corporate lines.
         (n)   ________   Boundary lines of proposed subdivision is clearly
shown.
         (o)   ________   Total approximate acreage is shown.
         (p)   ________   Existing zoning classification is indicated.
         (q)   ________   The following existing items, if within the
boundaries of the subdivision, or located 100' or less outside the boundaries
are shown:
            1.   ________   Previously platted streets and other rights-of-way
with improvements, if any, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Widths;
               c.   ________   Names.
            2.   ________   Railroad rights-of-way, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Dimensions.
            3.   ________   Utility rights-of-way, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Widths;
               c.   ________   Type.
                  i.   ________   Sewer;
                  ii.   ________   Water;
                  iii.   ________   Electric;
                  iv.   ________   Other.
            4.   ________   Parks and other open spaces, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Area.
            5.   ________   Easements, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Width;
               c.   ________   Purpose.
            6.   ________   Permanent buildings and structures, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Setback lines;
               c.   ________   Names of owners.
            7.   ________   Section and corporate lines;
            8.   ________   Sanitary sewers, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Size;
               c.   ________   Manholes;
               d.   ________   Invert elevations at manholes
            9.   ________   Water Mains, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Size;
               c.   ________   Valves, indicating:
                  i.   ________   Valve manhole, or
                  ii.   ________   Valve box.
               d.   ________   Fire hydrants and auxiliary valves.
            10.   ________   Culverts, indicating:
               a.   ________   Type;
               b.   ________   Location;
               c.   ________   Size;
               d.   _______   Invert elevation.
            11.   ________   Storm sewers, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Size;
               c.   ________   Catch basins;
               d.   ________   Invert elevations.
            12.   Watercourses, indicating:
               a.   ________   Type;
               b.   ________   High water width and elevation;
               c.   ________   Width of easement;
               d.   ________   Location of easement.
            13.   ________   Marshes, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Dimensions;
               c.   ________   Soil bearing capacity.
            14.   ________   Rock outcrops, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Dimensions.
            15.   ________   Monuments and survey markers, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Type.
         (r)   _______   Topographic data is given in feet above mean sea level
within the tract and to a distance of 100' beyond, indicating:
            1.   ________   Existing contours at vertical intervals of not more
than 2'.
            2.   ________   Proposed contours at vertical intervals of not more
than 2'.
            3.   ________   Bench mark, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Description;
               c.   ________   Elevation.
         (s)   ________   Soil bearing data is given, if required by the
Superintendent of Streets, indicating:
            1.   ________   Location of tests;
            2.   ________   Depth of tests;
            3.   ________   Soil bearing capacity;
            4.   ________   Moisture content.
         (t)   ________   The following proposed items, if within the
boundaries of the subdivision or located 100' or less outside of the
boundaries, are shown:
            1.   ________   Layout of streets, indicating:
               a.   ________   1.   Arterial (Primary) streets, indicating:
                  i.   ________   80' right-of-way width;
                  ii.   ________   50' roadway width;
               b.   ________   Collector (secondary) streets, indicating:
                  i.   ________   60' right-of-way width;
                  ii.   ________   40' roadway width, back-to-back.
               c.   ________   Local (minor) streets, indicating:
                  i.   ________   50' right-of-way width;
                  ii.   ________   36' roadway width, back-to-back of curbs.
               d.   ________   Cul-de-sac streets, indicating:
                  i.   ________   50' right-of-way width;
                  ii.   ________   27' roadway width, back-to-back of curbs;
                  iii.   ________   The length does not exceed 800' unless
there are 16 lots abutting the cul-de-sac street;
                  iv.   ________   Terminus is circular, or nearly so, and
right-of-way is at least 120' in diameter.
                  v.   ________   Terminus roadway width is 80' in diameter.
               e.   ________   Through street shown extended to boundaries of
subdivision.
               f.   ________   Storm water runoff pattern on paving.
            2.   ________   Names of streets:
               ________   Not duplicating the name of any street heretofore
used in the Village or its environs, unless the street is an extension of an
already existing street, in which case, the name shall be used.
            3.   ________   Street improvement plan showing location of all new
street improvements, including those to the center line of previously
dedicating rights-of-way, abutting the subdivision, in accordance with present
standards of the Village.
            4.   ________   Utility easements:
               a.   ________   Located at the rear of each lot and other
necessary locations.
               b.   ________   Not less than 10' in width on each lot.
               c.   ________   Purpose is indicated.
               d.   ________   Storm water runoff is indicated.
            5.   ________ Centerline profiles of all streets showing gradients
not less than 0.4% and not more than:
               a.   ________   5.0% on collector streets;
               b.   ________   7.0% on minor streets.
            6.   ________   Pedestrian ways, when required, indicating: (See §
154.035)
               a.   ________   Location at approximately the center of the
blocks in excess of 900' in length;
               b.   ________   Width not less than 10';
               3.   ________   Shrub or tree hedge at side boundary lines.
            7.   ________   Block layout, indicating: (See §
154.035)
               a.   ________   Blocks do not exceed 1,800' in length;
               b.   ________   Additional access ways to parks, schools, etc.,
are shown in accordance with the Plan Commission's requirements;
               c.   ________   Blocks fit readily into the overall plan of the
subdivision, with due consideration given to:
                  i.   ________   Topographical conditions;
                  ii.   ________   Lot planning;
                  iii.   ________   Traffic flow pattern;
                  iv.   ________   Public open space areas.
               d.   ________   Block numbers
               e.   ________   Blocks intended for commercial, industrial or
institutional use are so designated.
            8.   ________   Lot layout, indicating:
               a.   ________   Lot dimensions;
               b.   ________   Lot areas, not less than those stipulated in the
appropriated district regulations of the Zoning Code. (Areas may be listed by
Schedule)
               c.   ________   Building setback lines shown and properly
dimensioned.
               d.   _______   Proposed land use.
               e.   ________   Lot numbers.
               f.    _______   Corner lots are sufficiently larger than
interior lots to allow maintenance of building setback lines on both street
frontages and still allow a buildable width equal to that of the smallest
interior lot in the block.
               g.   ________   All lots abut a publicly dedicated street for a
distance of not less than the minimum width of the lot.
               h.   ________   Lots are as nearly rectangular in shape as is
practicable.
               i.   ________   Lots are not less than the provision of the
Zoning Code.
               j.   ________   Lot lines are substantially at right angles to
the street lines and radial to curved street lines.
               k.   ________   Double frontage lots only where:
                  i.   ________   Lots back upon an arterial street and front
on an access street;
                  ii.   ________   Topographic or other conditions make
subdividing otherwise unreasonable;
                  iii.   ________   Lots can be made an additional 20' deeper
than average;
                  iv.   ________   A protective screen plant-is indicated on
one frontage.
               l.   ________   Lots abutting or traversed by a watercourse,
drainage way, channel way, channel or stream, indicating:
                  i.   ________   Additional width and depth to provide an
acceptable building site;
                  ii.   ________   Width of easement is at least 15' wider on
each side of water at high water level.
               m.   ________   Due regard for natural features, such as:
                  i.   ________   Trees;
                  ii.   ________   Watercourses;
                  iii.   ________   Historic items;
                  iv.   ________   Other similar conditions.
            9.   ________   Areas intended to be dedicated for public use,
indicating:
               a.   ________   Plan conforms to general development plan of the
municipality;
               b.   ________   Purpose;
               c.   ________   Acreage;
            10.   ________   Source of domestic water supply, indicating:
               a.   ________   Connection to existing water mains;
               b.   ________   Location of site for community water plant.
            11.   ________   Provision for sewage disposal, indicating:
               a.   ________   Connection to existing sanitary sewer mains;
               b.   ________   Location of site for community sewage disposal
plant.
            12.   ________   School sites, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Dimensions;
               c.   ________   Acreage.
            13.   ________   Topographic information, indicating:
               a.   ________   Proposed changes in elevation of land showing
that any flooding would be relieved;
               b.   ________   Adequate installation of storm sewers would
remove the possibility of flooding;
            14.   ________   Sanitary Sewer layout, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Size;
               c.   ________   Invert elevations at manholes;
               d.   ________   Manhole locations.
            15.   ________   Water main layout, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Size;
               c.   ________   Looped pattern where practicable;
               d.   ________   Fire hydrants, spaced apart not more than 400'.
            16.   ________   Storm sewer layout, indicating:
               a.   ________   Location;
               b.   ________   Catch basins not more than 600' intervals;
               c.   ________   Storm water is not carried across or around any
intersection;
               d.   ________   Surface water drainage pattern for individual
lot and block.
            17.   ________   Street light layout, indicating:
               a.   ________   Locations and typical street light detail, or
               b.   ________   Statement by subdivider that street lights will
be installed in accordance with standards of the municipality.
         u.   ________   An outline of proposed covenants accompanies the
plans, indicating the intention of the subdivider to have the covenants
recorded with the final plat.
            ________   Protective against obstruction drainage easements.
         v.   ________   Typical street cross-section showing base
construction, surfacing, concrete curb and sidewalk in accordance with the land
improvements code.
         w.   ________   Indication that sidewalks will be installed along all
lot lines coincidental with street rights-of-way.
         x.   ________   Indication on drawing or by certificate that
subdivider is aware of his or her responsibility for installation of street
signs and for seeding and tree planting in all parkways.
Completed by: ________________________________________________________________
(Name)
__________________________________________________________________________
(Address)
______________________________________________________________________________
(Date)
Reviewed by: ____________________________________________________ (Zoning
Administrator)
______________________________________________________________________________
(Date)
Considered by Plan Commission on:
________________________________________________ (Date)
__________________________________________________________________________
(Chairman)
(1994 Code, § 34-6-1)
§ 154.116 CHECKLIST FOR ENGINEERING PLANS.
   The following is the checklist for engineering plans:
   (A)   __________________________________________ (Name of Subdivision)
   (B)   __________________________________________ (Date of Submission)
   (C)   ___________________________________________ (Due Date of
Recommendation - 45 Days)
   (D)   (NOTE): To properly execute this checklist, the subdivider or his or
her engineer shall:
      (1)   Insert the required information.
      (2)   Denote compliance with applicable ordinance by placing his or her
initials in all spaces where applicable.
      (3)   Denote those items which the subdivider considers "Not Applicable"
to this particular subdivision by the abbreviation, "N.A.".
         (a)   ________   Plans have been submitted within 12 months of the
date of approval by the Village Board of the preliminary plan.
         (b)   ________   Four copies of engineering plans have been submitted.
         (c)   ________   Plans conform to §
154.076.
         (d)   ________   A title sheet is included with each set of plans and
includes:
            1.   ________   Name of subdivision and unit number;
            2.   ________   Type of work covered;
            3.   ________   Location map showing relation of area to be
improved to existing streets;
            4.   ________   An index of sheets;
            5.   ________   A summary of quantities;
            6.   ________   Name, address, and seal of registered engineer
preparing the plans.
            7.   ________   Date of preparation and revisions, if any, is
shown.
         (e)   ________   Plan and profiles are on Federal Aid Sheets, Plate I
or II, or equal.
            1.   ________   Horizontal scale is not less than 1" to 50';
            2.   ________   Vertical scale is not less than 1" to 5'.
         (f)   ________   Cross sections are plotted on Federal Aid Sheets,
Plate III.
         (g)   ________   North direction is shown for each separate plan view.
         (h)   ________   An adequate number of bench marks are shown with
elevations referenced to mean sea level to facilitate checking of elevations.
         (i)   ________   Delineation is shown of all easements necessary to
serve all lots with underground and overhead utilities, and to allow for
perpetual maintenance to these facilities.
         (j)   ________   An application for State Environmental Protection
Agency permit for the sanitary sewer extension accompanies the plans.
         (k)   ________   Sanitary sewer plans and specifications are complete
and conform to the standards and requirements of the Codes applicable thereto
and denote all of the following: (See
Chapter 53)
            1.   ________   All properties in the subdivision are served and
house service connections are provided.
            2.   ________   The minimum size main is 8" I.D.
            3.   ________   The plan conforms to the overall municipal plan for
any trunk sewers traversing the subdivision.
            4.   ________   The distance between manholes does not exceed 400'.
            5.   ________   The invert elevation of each manhole is shown.
            6.   ________   The grade of each section of sewer is shown by
percentage in accordance with accepted engineering practice.
            7.   ________   Extra strength pipe and extra strength manhole wall
construction is specified and shown on the plans and in the estimates of
quantities where the depth of installation exceed 8'.
            8.   ________   Profile of existing and proposed ground surfaces.
            9.   ________   Risers are shown for individual house service
laterals where depths of main exceeds 12'.
            10.   ________   Pipe joints are of permitted type.
               a.   ________   540 pounds in collector streets;
               b.   ________   400 pounds in minor and cul-de-sac streets;
               c.   ________   335 pounds in rear-lot easements.
         (l)   ________   An application for State Environmental Protection
Agency approval of the water main installation accompanies the plans.
         (m)   ________   Water distribution plans and specifications are
complete and conform to the codes applicable thereto and include all of the
following:
            1.   ________   All properties in the subdivision are served;
            2.   ________   The minimum size main is 8" I.D.
            3.   ________   The plan conforms to the municipality's overall
plan for any trunk lines which might traverse the subdivision.
            4.   ________   Valve and hydrant spacing and location conform to
the approved preliminary plan.
            5.   ________   Materials and joint specifications comply with the
municipality's standards.
            6.   ________   Specifications include provisions for testing and
sterilization of all new water distribution facilities.
               a.   ________   Valve cover;
               b.   ________   Standard cover;
               c.   ________   Standard hydrant installation.
         (n)   ________   Street plans, including storm sewers, are complete
and conform to the codes applicable thereto and include all of the following:
            1.   ________   The location of streets and width of pavements
conform to those indicated on the approved preliminary plan.
            2.   ________   Plan shows curb, gutter and sidewalk locations, and
include the following information:
               a.   ________   Corner curb radius is not less than 16'.
               b.   ________   Curve data for all horizontal curves.
               c.   ________   Direction of flow along all curbs.
               d.   ________   No surface water is carried across or around any
street intersection, nor for a distance greater than 600'.
            3.   ________   Cross-sections are submitted as necessary to
indicate feasibility of proposed street elevations in relation to adjacent lot
elevations and include sidewalk location.
            4.   ________   Profiles are submitted for all paving centerlines
and storm sewers and indicate:
               a.   ________   Catch basin invert elevations;
               b.   ________   Minimum pipe size is 12" I.D., except that a
lead from a single inlet may be 10" I.D.
               c.   ________   The grade of each section of sewer shown by
percentage in accordance with accepted engineering practice.
               d.   ________   Storm sewer elevations do not conflict with any
other underground utilities.
               e.   ________   Storm sewer is connected with an adequate
outfall.
               f.   ________   Curve data is given for vertical road curves.
            5.   ________   The storm sewer system is designed to provide
sufficient capacity for the drainage of upland areas contributing to the storm
water runoff on the street.
            ________   Storm sewer design computations are submitted with
plans.
            6.   ________   A surface water drainage pattern is shown for each
block.
            7.   ________   Material specifications comply with standards of
the municipality and include:
               a.   ________   Paving base materials;
               b.   ________   Paving surface materials;
               c.   ________   Concrete;
               d.   ________   Pipe materials.
            8.   ________   Typical cross-sections and details include the
following:
               a.   ________   Collector street;
               b.   ________   Minor or cul-de-sac street;
               c.   ________   Concrete curb and gutter;
               d.   ________   Concrete sidewalk;
               e.   ________   Standard manhole;
               f.   ________   Standard cover;
               g.   ________   Catch basin;
         (o)   ________   Street light plans are complete and include the
following:
            1.   ________   Pole locations;
            2.   ________   Spacing;
            3.   ________   Average maintained footcandle illumination
(calculated).
               a.   ________   Type of base and pole;
               b.   ________   Bracket or arm;
               c.   ________   Luminaire, indicating type of lamp and wattage;
               d.   ________   Mounting height.
         (p)   ________   Parkway improvement specifications are complete and
include provisions for:
            1.   ________   Removal of stumps and trees that cannot be saved,
boulders and all other similar items.
            2.   ________   Grading, installation of topsoil and seeding or
sodding.
         (q)   ________   Street signs are shown to be installed at all street
intersections not previously marked.
Completed by: ________________________________________________________________
(Name)
_____________________________________________________________________________
(Address)
______________________________________________________________________________
(Date)
Reviewed by: ______________________________________________________________
(Engineer)
_______________________________________________________________________________
(Date)
Considered by Plan Commission On:
_______________________________________________ (Date)
__________________________________________________________________________
(Chairman)
(1994 Code, § 34-6-2)
§ 154.117 CHECKLIST FOR FINAL PLAT.
   The following is the checklist for final plat:
   (A)   ________________________________________ (Name of Subdivision)
   (B)   _________________________________________(Date of Submission)
   (C)   _________________________________________(Due Date of Recommendation
30 Days)
   (D)   (NOTE: To properly execute this checklist, the subdivider or his or
her engineer shall:
      (1)   Insert the required information.
      (2)   Denote compliance with applicable ordinances by placing his or her
initials in all spaces where applicable.
      (3)   Denote those items which the subdivider considers "not applicable"
to this particular subdivision by the abbreviation "N.A.".)
         (a)   ________   Plat has been submitted within six months after the
approval of the engineering plan.
         (b)   ________   Plat has been submitted within three years after the
approval of the preliminary plan [unless an extension of time has been
requested of and granted by the Village Board).
         (c)   ________   One (1) original drawing of the final plat has been
submitted.
         (d)   ________   One (1) transparency print of the final plat has been
submitted.
         (e)   ________   Four (4) copies of the final plat have been
submitted.
         (f)   ________   Plat is drawn with black or blue ink on heavy linen
tracing cloth or polyester film.
         (g)   ________   North direction is shown.
         (h)   ________   Scale is shown (minimum 1" equals 100').
         (i)   ________   Section corners and section lines are accurately tied
into subdivision by distances and angles.
         (j)   ________   Official survey monuments are shown as required.
         (k)   ________   All necessary easements are shown and dimensioned.
         (l)   ________   Building setback lines are shown and dimensioned in
accordance with the Zoning Code.
         (m)   ________   Lot areas are in accordance with the applicable
Zoning Regulations.
         (n)   ________   Street names are shown.
         (o)   ________   Areas to be dedicated or reserved for public use are
shown and described and the purpose is designated.
         (p)   ________   Protective covenants are lettered on the plat or are
appropriately referenced.
         (q)   ________   Required certificates are shown and signed:
            1.   ________   Surveyor's Certificate (including legal
description).
            2.   ________   Owner's Certificate.
            3.   ________   Notary Certificate.
            4.   ________   County Clerk's Certificate.
            5.   ________   Flood Hazard Certificate.
            6.   ________   Plan Commission Certificate.
            7.   ________   City Council Certificate.
            8.   ________   Superintendents' of Water, Sewer and Streets
Certificate.
         (r)   ________   The following items have been submitted with the
final plat:
            1.   ________   Detailed specifications for all required land
improvements not previously submitted and approved with the engineering plans.
            2.   ________   A copy of the State Sanitary Water Board permit for
the sanitary sewer installation.
            3.   ________   A copy of the State Department of Public Health
approval of the water main installation.
            4.   ________   An affidavit by the subdivider acknowledging
responsibility for the proper installation of all required land improvements.
            5.   ________   A certified estimate of cost of all required land
improvements prepared by a registered engineer.
            6.   ________   A description of the bond or guarantee collateral
intended to be submitted after contingent approval is granted by the
municipality.
Completed by: _________________________________________________________________
(Name)
___________________________________________________________________________
(Address)
_____________________________________________________________________________
(Date)
Reviewed by: ______________________________________________________(Zoning
Administrator)
______________________________________________________________________________
(Date)
Considered by Plan Commission On:
________________________________________________ (Date)
___________________________________________________________________________
(Chairman)
(1994 Code, § 34-6-3)
§ 154.118 SURETY BOND FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   "KNOW all men by these presents that we, _________________________________
(name of individual, corporation, etc.), as principal, and the
_____________________________ (name of bonding company), a corporation
authorized to do business in the State of ______________ as surety, are held
and firmly bound unto this Village of _____________________, in the penal sum
of _____________ Dollars, lawful money of the United States for the payment of
which we and each of us bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators,
successors and assigns jointly by these presents:
   "The condition of this obligation is such that whereas, the
____________________________(name of individual, corporation or principal) has
agreed to construct and/or install at its expense the following improvements:
Street base and paving.
Concrete curb and gutters.
Water mains, appurtenances, and house services.
Storm sewers, appurtenances, and house services.
Sanitary sewers, appurtenances and house services.
Concrete sidewalks   )   Optional
Street lights         )   Optional
Site improvements   )   Optional
all in accordance with the specifications and codes of the Village and
contained in plans and specifications prepared by ______________________ (named
engineer), and approved by the Village Board, at the following location:
___________________________________________________________________________________
(DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY)
   "And has agreed to maintain such improvements constructed under this bond
for a period of one (1) year from the date of acceptance of the same by the
Village Board.
   "NOW, THEREFORE, if the said principal shall well and truly perform in all
respects in strict accordance with the requirements, and shall save the Village
harmless from all loss, cost or damage, by reason of their failure to complete
said work, or maintain said improvements, relating to the above described work,
then this obligation to be void, otherwise to remain in full force and effect."
(1994 Code, § 34-6-4)
§ 154.119 CASH BOND.
   The Plan Commission may permit a developer to file in lieu of the surety
bond called for in §
154.079 above, a cash bond guaranteeing that the improvements will be completed
as follows:
   (A)   Undertaking in lieu of completion bond.
   WHEREAS, the statutes of the State of Illinois grant to a municipal
corporation the right to require that a developer constructing certain
improvements within that community guarantee the construction of such
improvements by a completion bond or other security acceptable to the
community; and WHEREAS, ______________________________________________ desires
to construct a residential development within the _________ of
_________________________, and that said municipality is willing to accept an
undertaking from a financial institution in the nature of an irrevocable
commitment in lieu of such completion bond.
   NOW, THEREFORE, are the following representations made by the owner and/or
developer to the _______________ of __________________________, as follows:
      1.   THAT _________________________________ is the owner and/or developer
of the property legally described in Clause 2 of this undertaking, and shall
hereinafter be referred to as "OWNER"; and, THAT the _____________________ of
___________________________ shall hereinafter be referred to as "MUNICIPALITY".
      2.   THAT THE OWNER is the legal title holder of the following described
property:
         [LEGAL DESCRIPTION]
      3.   THAT THE OWNER shall be required to install and guarantee the
installation of streets, sidewalks, street lights, sanitary sewers, storm
sewers, water lines, recreational facilities (including structures), and common
landscaping. In order to guarantee that such facilities shall be installed, the
OWNER shall submit to the municipal engineer such specifications and estimated
engineering costs as shall be required to meet with his approval. In aiding the
municipal engineer in determining the amount of reasonably anticipated costs
for the construction of such improvements, the OWNER may submit to the engineer
signed contracts for the construction of such improvements. The municipal
engineer, upon being satisfied that the design of the required improvements are
in accordance with the ordinances of the MUNICIPALITY and in accordance with
good engineering practices, shall estimate and certify an amount which shall
represent one hundred ten percent (110%) of the reasonably estimated cost of
completing the required improvements for which the MUNICIPALITY is requiring a
completion guarantee.
      4.   THAT [except for the issuance of building permits for a reasonable
number of models], the OWNER shall not be entitled to the issuance of [further]
building permits until and unless said owner shall submit to the MUNICIPALITY
an irrevocable financial commitment from a bank, savings and loan, or mortgage
company approved by the MUNICIPALITY in the amount certified by the municipal
engineer.
      5.   THAT the written irrevocable financial commitment shall be furnished
by the MUNICIPALITY from a banking or lending institution in the form marked
Appendix "A" and appended to this agreement.
      6.   THAT THE OWNER guarantees the workmanship of the public improvements
to be installed upon the site for a period of one (1) year after their donation
to the MUNICIPALITY. Upon final completion of the streets, sidewalks, street
lights, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and water mains the OWNER shall execute
a Bill of Sale for those items which are personal property. For a period of one
(1) year after the granting of the Bill of Sale in the case of personal
property and the acceptance for maintenance in the case of streets and
sidewalks, all necessary repairs to such facilities shall be the responsibility
of the OWNER.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF _________________________ has hereunto set his hand and seal
this _____ day of ___________________, 20_____.
________________________________________
(OWNER)
   APPROVED by the ____________ of ______________ this _____ day __________, of
_________, 20____.
BY:    ____________________________________
   (MUNICIPALITY)
   (B)   [Letterhead of Bank, Savings and Loan or Mortgage House]
__________________________, 20_____.
GENTLEMEN:
   We hereby establish our irrevocable credit in favor of ______________
[developer]___________, or the municipality of _____________________, in the
amount of _______ Dollars ($____). We understand that this irrevocable credit
is to be used to construct the following improvements in the residential
development known as ___________________________________ to be constructed with
the _____________________________, Illinois: streets; sidewalks; street lights;
the portion of sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and water mains to become
municipality-owned; recreational facilities (including a recreational building
and a swimming pool and appurtenances thereof); and landscaping in common
areas.
The development is legally described as follows:
[Legal Description]
   We shall make payouts from this irrevocable commitment as follows:
   If we have not been notified by the municipality of a default by the owner
and/or developer, we shall disburse the funds for labor and materials furnished
by contractors in accordance with the sworn statement on order of the owner,
the submission of proper lien waivers from the contractors engaged in such
work, and the certificate by the Municipal Engineer, ____________________[his
name] _________, that such work has been properly completed, however, that we
shall withhold from each payment made under such sworn statement(s) or order(s)
an amount equal to 10% thereof until all improvements have been completed
except final surfacing of the streets and sidewalks, at which time the 10% sum
withheld shall be disbursed less a sum equal to 125% of the cost of the final
surfacing of the streets, which sum shall be finally disbursed when the work
has been completed and the requirements of certification and lien waivers as
has been herein-above set out.
   The required improvements shall be completed in accordance with the
following schedule:
[Insert Schedule]
   If we receive a resolution of the corporate authorities of the municipality
indicating that the owner and/or developer has failed to satisfactorily
complete or carry on the work of the installation and construction of the
required improvements, and such resolution indicates that the owner and/or
developer has been notified that the municipality finds that a breach of the
owner's and/or developer's obligations has occurred and have not been cured
within a period of 30 days, that in such case, we shall make payments for
materials and labor to such contractor(s) or subcontractor(s) retained by the
municipality who have completed the improvements in substantial accordance with
the plans and specifications of the owner and/or developer; such payments shall
be made upon the certification of the municipal engineer that the work has been
completed and the submission of proper waiver of liens from the contractor(s)
or subcontractor(s). The amount of the payouts shall be in accordance with the
retention provisions as previously set out.
   The irrevocable credit established by us shall be in force for a period of
____________ years, and shall remain in effect without regard to any default in
payments of sums owed by us, by the owner and/or developer and without regard
to other claims which we may have against the owner and/or developer. Sixty
(60) days prior to the expiration of this irrevocable credit we shall notify
the corporate authorities of the municipality, by registered letter return
receipt requested, of the impending expiration date. This commitment shall not
terminate without such notice. If the work covered by this commitment has not
been completed within the time set forth in this agreement, the municipality
may, at its option, continue drawing funds as otherwise provided for an
additional period of one year. It is recognized that the municipality is
according to the owner and/or developer the permission to proceed with the
development project expressly upon the guarantee of the irrevocable nature of
this commitment. It is further acknowledged that the consideration for this
irrevocable commitment is provided by agreements between this financial
institution and the developer. The sum of this credit shall, however, be
reduced in the amount of disbursements made from time to time in accordance
with the terms under which this credit is extended as set out above.
(1994 Code, § 34-6-5)
APPENDIX A: FIGURES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68806131752966c40f9fd5d13dcb5c283a29577e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1961.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68806131752966c40f9fd5d13dcb5c283a29577e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1964.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68806131752966c40f9fd5d13dcb5c283a29577e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1967.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68806131752966c40f9fd5d13dcb5c283a29577e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1970.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68806131752966c40f9fd5d13dcb5c283a29577e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1973.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68806131752966c40f9fd5d13dcb5c283a29577e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1976.jpg]
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_figures_in_a_PDF_document.
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Jurisdiction
   
155.004   Interpretation; conflict
   
155.005   Disclaimer of liability
   
155.006   Construction of terms
   
155.007   Definitions
General Regulations
   
155.020   Establishment of districts
   
155.021   Zoning map and district boundaries
   
155.022   General prohibition
   
155.023   Unlisted uses prohibited
   
155.024   Meeting minimum requirements
   
155.025   Access required
   
155.026   Front setbacks; corner/through lots
   
155.027   Front setbacks in certain built-up areas
   
155.028   Intrusions into yards
   
155.029   Exceptions to height limits
   
155.030   Sewers; septic tanks
   
155.031   Accessory uses
Regulations for Specific Districts
   
155.045   "C" Conservation District
   
155.046   "R-1" Single-Family Residence District
   
155.047   "R-2" One-Family Residence District
   
155.048   "R-3" Multiple-Family Residence District
   
155.049   (Reserved)
   
155.050   "B-1" Community Business
   
155.051   "B-2" Highway Business District
   
155.052   "I" Industrial District
   
155.053   "O-FP" Flood Plain Overlay District
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
155.065   Applicability of subchapter
   
155.066   Parking lot design standards
   
155.067   Location of parking
   
155.068   Design and location of off-street loading facilities
   
155.069   Computation of required parking/loading spaces
   
155.070   Number of parking and loading spaces required
   
155.071   Trucks prohibited
Sign/Billboard Regulations
   
155.085   Purpose and definitions
   
155.086   Notices
   
155.087   Permit; requirement
   
155.088   Permit; application
   
155.089   Renewal of permits
   
155.090   Registration and abatement of existing signs
   
155.091   Notice of intent to revoke
   
155.092   Reply of permittee
   
155.093   Review procedures
   
155.094   Issuance of the "30-day letter"
   
155.095   Wind pressure requirement
   
155.096   Obstruction of fire escapes prohibited
   
155.097   Height above ground
   
155.098   Fireproof construction and grounds requirement
   
155.099   Location of billboard; frontage consents
   
155.100   Conforming to IDOT standards
   
155.101   Roof signs
   
155.102   Billboards against buildings
   
155.103   Illuminated billboards
   
155.104   Signs that may not be erected or maintained
   
155.105   Standards for official notices
   
155.106   Directional signs
   
155.107   On-premise signs
   
155.108   Non-conforming billboards are unlawful
   
155.109   Permit fees
   155.110   Temporary signs for commercial property
Supplementary Regulations
   
155.120   Applicability of subchapter
   
155.121   Agricultural activities
   
155.122   Fences; walls
   
155.123   Home occupations
   
155.124   Nursing homes
   
155.125   Recreational vehicles
   
155.126   Service stations
   
155.127   Swimming pools
   
155.128   Utility substations
Nonconformities
   
155.140   Purpose of subchapter
   
155.141   Nonconforming lots
   
155.142   Nonconforming structures
   
155.143   Nonconforming uses
   
155.144   Nonconformities under permit authority
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.155   Zoning Administrator
   
155.156   Initial certificates of zoning compliance
   
155.157   Final certificates of zoning compliance
   
155.158   Corrective action orders
   
155.159   Emergency measures
   
155.160   Complaints
   
155.161   Filing fees
   
155.162   Review and hearing fees
   
155.163   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
155.164   Appeals
   
155.165   Variances
   
155.166   Special use permits
   
155.167   Amendments
 
   
155.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Summary table; lot and building requirements by district
   
Appendix B:   Figures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the "Revised Zoning Code of the
village".
(1994 Code, § 40-1-1)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   In accordance with state law, this chapter regulates lots, structures and
uses in order to preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety and
welfare. More specifically, this chapter is intended to assist in achieving the
following objectives:
   (A)   To encourage the development of buildings and uses on appropriate
sites in order to maximize community-wide social and economic benefits while
accommodating the particular needs of all residents, and to discourage
development on inappropriate sites;
   (B)   To assist in implementing the village community plan:
   (C)   To protect and enhance the character and stability of sound existing
residential, commercial and industrial areas, and to gradually eliminate
nonconforming uses and structures;
   (D)   To conserve and increase the value of taxable property throughout the
village;
   (B)   To ensure the provision of adequate lights, air and privacy for the
occupants of all buildings;
   (F)   To protect persons and property from damage caused by fire, flooding
and improper sewage disposal;
   (G)   To provide adequate and well-designed parking and loading space for
all buildings and uses, and to reduce vehicular congestion on the public
streets and highways:
   (H)   To ensure the proper design and improvement of mobile home parks;
   (I)   To promote the use of signs which are safe, aesthetically pleasing,
compatible with their surroundings, and legible in the circumstances in which
they are seen; and
   (J)   To provide for the efficient administration and fair enforcement of
all the substantive regulations in this chapter.
(Ill. Rev. Stats., Ch. 24, §§ 11-13-1 et seq.) (1994 Code, § 40-1-2)
§ 155.003 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be applicable only within the corporate limits of the
village.
(1994 Code, § 40-1-3)
§ 155.004 INTERPRETATION; CONFLICT.
   Every provision of this chapter shall be construed liberally in favor of the
village, and every requirement imposed herein shall be deemed minimal. Whenever
the requirements of this chapter differ from the requirements of any other
lawfully adopted and effective ordinance, regulation, deed restriction or
covenant, the more stringent requirement shall prevail.
(1994 Code, § 40-1-4)
§ 155.005 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
official, board member, agent or employee of the village shall render himself
or herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties under this chapter. (See Local Governmental and Governmental
Employees Tort Immunity Act, ILCS Ch. 745, Act 10, § 1-101.)
   (B)   Any suit brought against any official, board member, agent or employee
of the village, as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge
of his or her duties under this chapter, shall be defended by the Village
Attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(1994 Code, § 40-1-5)
§ 155.006 CONSTRUCTION OF TERMS.
   In construing the intended meaning of terminology used in this chapter, the
following rules shall be observed.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in §
155.007 below unless the context clearly indicates otherwise; terms not defined
in §
155.007 below shall have their standard English dictionary meanings.
   (B)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (D)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
the plural the singular.
   (E)   The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is discretionary.
   (F)   All distances shall be measured to the nearest integral foot: six
inches or more shall be deemed one foot.
   (G)   References to sections shall be deemed to include all divisions within
that section; but a reference to a particular division designates only that
division.
   (H)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of specific
terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly limited.
(1994 Code, § 40-2-1)
§ 155.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Having a common lot line or district line. Synonym for ADJACENT.
   ACCESS WAY. A curb cut, ramp, driveway or other means for providing
vehicular access to an off-street parking or loading area.
   ACCESSORY USE. Any structure or use that is:
      (1)   Subordinate in size or purpose to the principal structure or use
which it serves;
      (2)   Necessary or contributing to the comfort and convenience of the
occupants of the principal structure or use served; and
      (3)   Located on the same lot as the principal structure or use served.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The official appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees to administer this chapter, or his or her
representative. Synonymous with ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   AGRICULTURE. Any one or any combination of the following: the growing of
farm or truck garden crops, dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture or
animal/poultry husbandry. The term AGRICULTURE encompasses the farmhouse and
accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to agricultural
activities.
   AISLE. A vehicular traffic way within an off-street parking area, used as a
means of access/egress from parking spaces.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting premises that front on a nearby street.
   ALTER. To change the size, shape or use of a structure.
   AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of this chapter (including the
district map), properly effected in accordance with state law and the
procedures set forth herein.
   ANCHOR. Any approved device to which a mobile home is tied down to keep it
firmly attached to the stand on which it is placed.
   ASPHALTIC CONCRETE. A mixture of petroleum by-products and gravel used for
paving to form a smooth, permanent surface. ASPHALTIC CONCRETE does not mean
"oil and chip."
   ATTACHED. As applied to buildings, having common wall and/or a common roof.
   BILLBOARD. Any single or double-faced sign displaying messages or
advertising not associated with the premises on which the sign is located or to
which it is affixed.
   BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers or
ways (except alleys, pedestrian ways or exterior boundaries of a subdivision
unless exterior boundary is a street, highway or way), or bounded by a
combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way,
waterways or corporate boundary lines.
   BOARD OF APPEALS. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the village.
   BUFFER STRIP. An area of land undeveloped except for landscaping, fences and
the like used to protect a use situated on one lot from the deleterious effects
of the use on the adjacent lot.
   BUILDING. Any covered structure permanently affixed to land and designed or
used to shelter persons or chattels.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average grade at
the front wall of a building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof
or to the deck line of mansard roof, or to the mean height level between eaves
and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front of and across a lot, delineating
the minimum open space required between the front of a structure and the street
right-of-way line.
   BULK. Any one or any combination of the following structural or site design
characteristics:
      (1)   Size or height structure;
      (2)   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets or other structures;
      (3)   Lot area; and/or
      (4)   Yards or setbacks.
   CENTERLINE.
      (1)   The centerline of any right-of-way having a uniform width;
      (2)   The original centerline, where a right-of-way has been widened
irregularly; or
      (3)   The new centerline, whenever a road has been relocated.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE, FINAL. A permit issued by the
Administrator indicating that a lot, or newly completed structure or use
complies with all pertinent requirements of this chapter and may, therefore, be
occupied or used.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE, INITIAL. A permit issued by the
Administrator indicating a proposed lot, structure, or use is in conformity
with the requirements of this chapter.
   CLINIC. An establishment wherein licensed physicians or dentists practice
medicine or dentistry, but where overnight lodging for sick or injured persons
is not provided.
   CLUB/LODGE. A nonprofit association of persons who are bonafide members
organized for some purpose(s) and paying regular dues and whose facilities are
restricted to members and their guests; not including a group organized solely
or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a commercial
enterprise.
   COMMERCIAL USE/ESTABLISHMENT. Any use or establishment wherein goods are
purchased or sold, whether to the consuming public (retail) or to other
businesses (wholesale).
   CONFORMING. In compliance with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   CONVENIENCE SHOP. Any small retail commercial or service establishment
offering goods/services primarily to the residents of a particular multiple-
family complex, mobile home park or similar development.
   CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDER. A legally binding order issued by the Administrator
in accordance with the procedures set forth herein to effect compliance with
this chapter.
   DETACHED. As applied to buildings, surrounded by yards on the same lot as
the building.
   DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation therefor.
   DIMENSIONS. Refers to both lot depth and lot width.
   DISTRICT, ZONING. A portion of the territory of the village wherein certain
uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to structures, lots
and uses under the terms of this chapter.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor way commonly providing vehicular access to a garage or
off-street parking area.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed or used primarily as living
quarters for one or more families, but not including hotels, motels or other
accommodations for the transient public.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof containing three or
more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling containing one dwelling unit and
intended for the occupancy of one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling containing two dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed or used as living quarters by one
family. A DWELLING UNIT always includes a bathroom and a kitchen.
   EASEMENT. A right to use another person's real property for certain limited
purposes.
   ENCLOSED. As applied to a building, covered by a permanent roof and
separated on all sides from adjacent open space or other buildings by fixed
exterior walls or by common walls, with openings only for windows and doors.
   ENLARGE. To increase the size (floor area, height and the like) of an
existing principal structure or accessory use, or to devote more land to an
existing use.
   ERECT. To build, construct.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Either of the following:
      (1)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
is the sole occupant of one or more buildings; or
      (2)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
occupies a portion of a building such that:
         (a)   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the other
activities within the building and not a department of the whole; and
         (b)   The activity has either a separate entrance from the exterior of
the building, or a separate entrance from a common and clearly defined entryway
that has direct access to the exterior of the building.
   EXISTING. Actually constructed or in operation on the effective date of this
chapter.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood or marriage or adoption, or
three unrelated persons living together as a single housekeeping unit in a
single dwelling unit. A family may include domestic servants and two gratuitous
guests whose residency is temporary. Total occupancy of any dwelling unit shall
be limited by fire and health laws.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or
from the center of the common walls of attached buildings. GROSS FLOOR AREA
includes basement floors; attic floor space, halls, closets, stairwells; space
devoted to mechanical equipment; and enclosed porches.
   FREIGHT TERMINAL.  As applied to motor carriers subject to the Ill. Rev.
Stats., Ch. 95-1/2, Chapter 18, a station for commercial motor vehicles wherein
the motor trucks are stored, repaired or parked.
   FRONTAGE. The lineal extent of the front (street-side) of a lot or
establishment.
   GREENHOUSE. See NURSERY.
   HEREAFTER. Any time after the effective date of this chapter.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any business, profession or occupation conducted for gain
entirely within a dwelling or on residential premises in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   IMMOBILIZE. As applied to a mobile home, to remove the wheels, tongue and
hitch and/or to place on a permanent foundation.
   INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way (generally
streets) meet.
   JUNK YARD. A tract of land, including any accessory structures thereon, that
is used for buying, selling, exchanging, storing, baling, packing,
disassembling or handling waste or scrap materials. Scrap materials include
vehicles, machinery and equipment not in operable condition (or parts thereof),
and metals, glass, paper, plastics, rags and rubber tires. A lot on which three
or more inoperable vehicles are stored shall be deemed a JUNK YARD. A JUNK YARD
includes an automobile wrecking yard.
   KENNEL. See §
90.52, Kennel Licensing.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space used for the temporary parking of
commercial vehicles while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether immediate
or future) of transfer of ownership or development. A LOT may or may not
coincide with a "lot of record."
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lines of a lot.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both such side lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
   LOT COVERAGE. The portion of a lot that is occupied by buildings or
structures, including accessory buildings or structures.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line of a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot boundary abutting the street.
   LOT LINE, REAR. An interior lot line which is most distant from and most
nearly parallel to the front line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of subdivision
recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds, in accordance with state law.
   LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.  Refers to the lot area, width and depth requirements
of the applicable district.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines that
abut two approximately parallel streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal width of a lot measured at right angles to
the side lot lines at the building line.
   MAINTENANCE. The routine upkeep of a structure, premises or equipment,
including the replacement or modification of structural components to the
extent necessary to keep the structure in sound condition.
   MOBILE or PORTABLE MARQUEE. A term used to describe any sign designed to be
moved from place to place, including (but not limited to) signs attached to
wood or metal frames designed to be self-supporting and movable; or paper,
cardboard or canvas signs wrapped around supporting poles.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location or
subsequent locations at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons, provided that any such structure resting on a permanent foundation
with wheels, tongue and hitch permanently removed shall not be construed as a
MOBILE HOME, but shall be an immobilized mobile home. A mobile home should not
be confused with a camping trailer or recreational vehicle.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel not less than five acres in area in single
ownership/control, developed with facilities for accommodating occupied mobile
homes in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A portion of a mobile home park designed and improved for
the placement of one mobile home and the private use of the occupants thereof.
   MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of mobile home space beneath the mobile home
that includes the concrete slab on which the home is placed and to which it is
anchored.
   MODULAR HOMES. Any detached single-family dwelling that is transported to
the site where it will be permanently located in assembled form, and that fully
complies with the adopted Building Code, if any.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINALS. See FREIGHT TERMINAL.
   MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR. Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of
worn or damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service including body,
frame or fender straightening or repair, and painting of vehicles.
   MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and
motor service to automobiles, but not including any operations specified under
MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR.
   NONCONFORMING. As applied to a lot, structure or use:
      (1)   Lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter; but
      (2)   Not in compliance with the applicable provision thereof.
   NUISANCE. Any thing, condition or conduct that endangers health, or
unreasonably offends the senses, or obstructs the free use and comfortable
enjoyment of property, or essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment
of life.
   NURSERY. A tract of land on which trees, shrubs, and other plants are raised
for transplanting and/or sale, and including any structure in which the
activities are conducted.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. An establishment for the part-time care and/or instruction
at any time of day of four or more unrelated children of pre-elementary school
age.
   NURSING HOME. A building used as a medical care facility for persons who
need long-term nursing care and medical service, but do not require intensive
hospital care.
   OFFICE. Any building or portion thereof in which the business (usually
clerical and administrative affairs) of a commercial/service enterprise or
professional person is transacted.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A zoning district superimposed over one or more standard
(primary) zoning districts or portions thereof for the purpose of controlling
developmental problems caused by such factors as steep slopes, wet soils,
flooding and the like.
   PARKING AREA/LOT, OFF-STREET. Land that is improved in accordance with this
chapter and used primarily for the storage of passenger motor vehicles, free of
charge or for compensation. An OFF-STREET PARKING LOT, depending on the
circumstances of its use. may be either a principal use or an accessory use.
   PARKING LOT, COMMERCIAL. Land that is improved in accordance with this code
shall be limited to automobiles and trucks one ton and under.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area at least 20 feet long and ten feet wide
within an off-street parking area or garage, used for the storage of one
passenger motor vehicle.
   PERMITTED USE. Any use which is or may be lawfully established in a
particular district(s), provided it conforms with all the requirements
applicable to those district(s).
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, organization or corporate body.
   PREMISES. A lot and all the structures and uses thereon.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING/STRUCTURE/USE. The main structure erected on or the main
use occupying a lot, as distinguished from an accessory (subordinate) structure
or use.
   PROPERTY LINE. See LOT LINE.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES. Utilities which are either government-owned or owned by an
established firm serving a wide geographical area and/or a substantial number
of persons.
   RECONSTRUCT. As applied to nonconforming structures, to rebuild after damage
or destruction.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A term encompassing any type of vehicle used primarily
for pleasure, such as travel trailers, motor homes, boats, snowmobiles and the
like
   REFUSE. Garbage (food wastes) and trash, but not sewage or industrial
wastes.
   RELOCATE. To move to another portion of a lot or to a different lot.
   REPAIR. To restore to sound condition, but not to reconstruct.
   RESTRICTIVE. Tending to keep within prescribed limits.
   RETAIL. Refers to the sale of goods or services directly to the consumer
rather than to another business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to the village or to another unit of government for streets and
alleys.
   ROOF LINE. A horizontal line parallel to the average ground level of a
building along the front thereof, which line delineates the highest point of a
flat roof; or where the flat surface area of a gable, hip, mansard or gambrel
roof is in view from the ground level, the line of demarcation between the flat
surface and the vertically structured facade; or the line along the front of a
building delimiting the roof line between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and
gambrel roofs.
   SCREENING. Trees, shrubs, walls, solid fences and the like used as a means
of view and noise control.
   SEMI-FINISHED MATERIALS. Materials which have been sufficiently processed at
heavy industrial facilities so that they are no longer in their raw state but
are readily usable by light industry for assembly or manufacture into consumer
goods.
   SERVICE BUILDING. A structure within a mobile home park or travel trailer
park that contains toilet facilities, clothes washers and dryers, and, in some
instances, a convenience store.
   SERVICE STATION. A building and premises or portion thereof designed and
used for the retail sale of gasoline or other automotive fuel, oil and
automotive parts, supplies and accessories. A SERVICE STATION may include
facilities for washing vehicles and for making minor automotive repairs.
   SERVICE USE/ESTABLISHMENT. Any use or establishment where services are
provided for remuneration either to individuals or to other firms.
   SETBACK. The horizontal distance from the lot line in question to the side
of the structure facing that lot line or to the edge of the area of operation
of the principal use (in the case of a use which does not involve a structure).
   SIGN. Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof, used to
advertise, identify, display or attract attention to a person, establishment,
product, service or event by any means including words, letters, figures,
designs, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination and the like. The term SIGN
includes but is not limited to every projecting sign, freestanding sign, window
sign, awning, canopy, marquee sign; changeable copy sign; illuminated sign;
moving sign; temporary sign; portable sign; pennants, banners, streamers, or
any other attention-getting device; or other display whether affixed to a
building or erected elsewhere on the premises. The term SIGN excludes features
of a building which are an integral part of the building's design (e.g., the
"castle-look" of a White Castle restaurant).
   SIGN, CANOPY/MARQUEE. Any sign affixed to, painted on or suspended from an
awning, canopy, marquee or similar overhang.
   SIGN, FLUSH-MOUNTED. Any sign attached to or erected against a wall of a
structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane approximately parallel
to the plane of the wall and not projecting more than 18 inches. A FLUSHMOUNTED
SIGN displays only messages associated with the building to which the sign is
attached.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. Any sign supported by one or more uprights, poles or
braces placed in or upon the ground; or any sign supported by any structure
erected primarily for the display and support of the sign; provided that a
freestanding sign displays only messages associated with the premises on which
the sign is situated.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign which is suspended from or supported by a wall,
awning, canopy, marquee and the like, and which is approximately perpendicular
thereto. A PROJECTING SIGN displays only messages associated with the structure
to which it is attached.
   SIGN AREA. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter enclosing
the extreme limits of the message and the background thereof, calculated in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   SIGN AREA ALLOWANCE. The maximum total sign area of all signs that an
establishment is permitted to display.
   SKIRTING. The covering affixed to the bottom of the exterior walls of a
mobile home to conceal the underside thereof.
   SPECIAL USE. A use that has unusual operational, physical or other
characteristics which distinguish it from the permitted uses of a district, but
which can be made compatible with the intended overall development within a
district. SPECIAL USES commonly must meet special standards not necessarily
applicable to permitted uses in the district, and are allowed only by permit.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter to regulate development of a special use.
   STOP ORDER. A type of corrective action order used by the Administrator to
halt work in progress that is in violation of this chapter.
   STREET. A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term STREET
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, through way, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
   STREET, PRIVATE. Any street providing access to abutting property that is
not maintained by and dedicated to the village or other public entity.
   STRINGENT. Binding, exacting.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to
something having a fixed location on the ground. All buildings are structures,
but not all structures are buildings.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which land or a structure thereon is
designed, arranged, intended, occupied or maintained.
   USE VARIANCE. A type of amendment (not variance) that allows a use in a
district where the use would not be allowed under existing provisions of this
chapter.
   UTILITY SUBSTATION. A secondary utility facility such as an electrical
substation, gas regulation station, telephone exchange facility, sewage
treatment plant and the like.
   VACANT. As applied to a lot, that no structure is situated thereon.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the strict application of the lot size, setbacks
or other bulk requirements applicable to a particular lot or structure.
   VILLAGE. Either the territory or the local government of the village.
   WHOLESALE. Refers to the sale of goods or services by one business to
another business.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign visible from the exterior of a building or structure
which is painted directly on the surface of a window or affixed to or suspended
immediately behind the window for the purpose of informing the passerby of the
identity of the proprietor or business, or of the product or service which can
be obtained on the premises.
   YARD. Open space that is unobstructed except as specifically permitted in
this chapter and that is located on the same lot as the principal building.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard which is bounded by the side lot lines, front lot line
and the building line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard which is bounded by side lot lines, rear lot line and the
rear yard line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front yard line,
side yard line and side lot line.
   YARD LINE. A line in a lot that is generally parallel to the lot line along
which the yard in question extends and which is not nearer to the lot line at
any point than the required depth or width of the yard.
   ZONING MAP. The map(s) and any amendments thereto designating zoning
districts, and incorporated into this chapter by reference.
(1994 Code, § 40-2-2)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   In order to implement the regulatory scheme of this chapter so as to achieve
the objectives enumerated at §
155.002 above, the entire village is hereby divided into the following zoning
districts:
District Designation Minimum Area*
District                  Designation Minimum Area*
Conservation              C           None
Single-family residence   R-1         5 Acres
Two-family residence      R-2         3 Acres
Multiple-family residence R-3         3 Acres
Mobile home               R-4         3 Acres
Community business        B-1         1 Acre
Highway business          B-2         2 Acres
Industrial                I           5 Acres
Flood plain overlay       O-FP        None
*The "minimum area" requirement (which is intended to prevent spot zoning)
refers to the smallest total area of contiguous parcels that can properly be
given the particular district classification. The minimum area requirement is
not satisfied merely because the acreage of numerous noncontiguous parcels,
when aggregated, happens to equal or exceed the minimum area indicated above.
 
(1994 Code, § 40-3-1)
Editor’s notes:
   Effective December 1, 2020, all properties previously designated “R-4”
Mobile Home District shall henceforth be designated as “R-1” Single Family
Residence.
   Effective December 1, 2020, all existing lots, structures and uses
previously permitted in “R-4” Mobile Home District shall be allowed to continue
as nonconformities and shall be governed by the provisions addressing
nonconformities contained in §§
155.140 through
155.144.
§ 155.021 ZONING MAP AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the listed zoning districts are hereby established
as shown on the official zoning map of the village.
   (B)   This map, including all notations and other information thereon, is
hereby made a part of this chapter by reference.
   (C)   The official zoning map shall be kept on file in the Administrator's
office.
      (1)   Annual publication. In accordance with the state law, if any
changes are made in the zoning districts or regulations during a calendar year,
the Village Clerk shall publish the revised official zoning map of the village
not later than March 31 of the following year.
(Ill. Rev., Stat., Ch. 24, § 11-13-19)
      (2)   Determining territory of districts with precision. In determining
with precision what territory is actually included within any zoning district,
the Administrator shall apply the following rules:
         (a)   Where a district boundary as indicated on the zoning map
approximately follows any of the features listed below on the left, the
corresponding feature on the right shall be deemed the district boundary:
 
Centerline of any street, alley or highway The centerline
Lot line                                   The lot line
Railroad tracks                            Right-of-way line of the tracks
Stream                                     Center of the stream
Section, fractional or survey lines        The lines
 
         (b)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is legally
vacated, the zoning districts adjoining each side of the vacated public way
shall automatically extend to the center of the way, and all territory included
in the vacated way shall thereafter be subject to all regulations of the
extended districts.
      (3)   Annexed territory. Whenever any territory is annexed to the
village, the territory shall automatically be zoned and classified C-
Conservation unless specifically zoned otherwise pursuant to pre-annexation
agreement.
(1994 Code, § 40-3-2) (Ord. 91-10, passed 7-11-1991; Ord. 20-17, passed 12-1-
2021)
Editor’s note:
   Effective December 1, 2020, the official zoning map and district boundaries
are amended so as to change all areas with an “R-4” designation to “R-1”,
Single Family Residence.
§ 155.022 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   Hereafter, within the village it shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Erect, use, occupy, enlarge, alter, relocate or reconstruct any
structure or part thereof;
   (B)   To create any lot; or
   (C)   To use, occupy or develop any lot or part thereof except in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 40-3-3)
§ 155.023 UNLISTED USES PROHIBITED.
   Whenever any use is not specifically listed as permitted or special within a
particular zoning district, the use shall be deemed prohibited in that
district. However, if the Board of Trustees determines that the unlisted use is
similar to and compatible with the listed uses, they may allow the use by
amending this chapter in accordance with §
155.167. The Board of Trustees' decision shall become a permanent public
record, and any unlisted use that they approve shall thereafter have the same
status as listed uses.
(1994 Code, § 40-3-4)
§ 155.024 MEETING MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise elsewhere in this chapter, every
lot must meet the minimum area, minimum dimensions, and minimum setback
requirements of the district in which it is located independently; that is,
without counting any portion of an abutting lot.
(1994 Code, § 40-3-5)
§ 155.025 ACCESS REQUIRED.
   No building shall be erected on any lot unless the lot abuts, or has
permanent easement of access to, a public street or private street that
conforms to the standards set forth in the subdivision regulations (
Chapter 154).
(1994 Code, § 40-3-6)
§ 155.026 FRONT SETBACKS; CORNER/THROUGH LOTS.
   Every lot with multiple frontages (such as corner or through lots) shall
meet the front setback requirements of the district in which it is located on
every side having frontage.
(1994 Code, § 40-3-7)
§ 155.027 FRONT SETBACKS IN CERTAIN BUILT-UP AREAS.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise, in the "B-1" Community Business
District and in all residential zoning districts, where lots having 50% or more
of the frontage on one side of a street between intersections (that is, in one
block) are developed with buildings, and the front setbacks of those lots do
not differ by more than ten feet, the minimum required front setback on that
block shall be the average of the existing front setbacks; provided, however,
that in any built-up area, no front setback greater than 50 feet shall be
required.
(1994 Code, § 40-3-8)
§ 155.028 INTRUSIONS INTO YARDS.
   To the extent indicated below, the following features of principal buildings
may intrude into required yards without thereby violating the minimum setback
requirements:
 
Features                                              Maximum Intrusion
Cornices, chimneys, planters or similar architectural 2 feet
features
Fire escapes                                          4 feet
Patios                                                No limit
Porches, if unenclosed and at ground level            6 feet
Balconies                                             4 feet
Canopies, roof overhangs                              4 feet
 
(1994 Code, § 40-3-9)
§ 155.029 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Necessary appurtenances. Chimneys, church spires, parapet walls,
cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, antennas or other necessary
appurtenances commonly constructed above the roof line shall be permitted to
exceed the maximum height limitations of the district in which they are located
if they comply with all other pertinent ordinances of the village.
   (B)   Intersections. On corner lots, in the triangular portion of land
bounded by intersecting street lines and a line joining these street lines at
points 30 feet from the point of intersection, no obstruction, whether natural
or human-made, shall intrude into the air space that is between two feet and
ten feet above the level of the adjacent street. (See Figure 1 in
Appendix B below.)
(1994 Code, § 40-3-10)
§ 155.030 SEWERS; SEPTIC TANKS.
   In all districts, property owners of all buildings and places where people
live, work or assemble shall provide for the sanitary disposal of all sewage in
accordance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Whenever the public sanitary sewerage system is reasonably accessible
(that is, when the distance from the property in question to the nearest public
sewer with available capacity does not exceed 600 feet all sewage shall be
discharged into the system, whether or not a private sewerage system already
exists or is more convenient; and
   (B)   Whenever the public sewerage system is not reasonably accessible, a
private sewerage system shall be installed and used. All private sewerage
system shall be designed, constructed, operated and maintained in conformity
with the following requirements:
      (1)   Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, ILCS Ch. 225, Act
225, §§ 1 through 22, as amended from time to time;
      (2)   Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Code No. 4.002, promulgated by the
Director of the Illinois Department of Public Health, as amended from time to
time;
      (3)   Pertinent, current regulations issued by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency; and
      (4)   Applicable codes and regulations of the village, particularly the
Subdivision Regulations. The Administrator shall not issue any initial
certificate of zoning compliance unless, following consultation with the
Village Engineer, he or she is satisfied that these requirements will be met.
   (C)   Carports. Carports shall be permitted without application for a zoning
permit if they are in compliance with the restrictions set forth below:
      (1)   Height.
         (a)   The carport shall not be higher than 15 feet in the Conservation
District or in any residential district; or
         (b)   The carport shall not be higher than 25 feet in any other zoning
district, provided there shall be no height limitation on agriculture-related
carports.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   No carport shall be located with a setback line of less than
five feet on any side, including front and back.
         (b)   No carports shall be located in any part of any yard that is
required because of setback regulations of the district, provided that, except
as specifically provided otherwise in the Conservation District or in any
residential district, a carport may be located as close as five feet to any
side or rear lot line.
         (c)   Yard coverage.  Carports shall not cover more than 30% of a
required rear yard.
         (d)   Use as a dwelling.  Use of a carport as a dwelling is strictly
prohibited.
      (3)   Walls. No carport shall permitted with walls on the sides of the
carport.
      (4)   Building permit required. A building permit must be obtained before
the construction of a carport..
(1994 Code, § 40-3-12) (Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 155.031 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Any accessory use shall be deemed permitted in a particular zoning
district if the use:
      (1)   Meets the definition of "accessory use" found in §
155.007 above;
      (2)   Is accessory to a principal structure or use that is allowed in a
particular zoning district as a permitted or special use; and
      (3)   Is in compliance with the restrictions set forth in division (B)
below.
   (B)   If an accessory structure is attached to a principal structure, it
shall be considered part of the structure. Accessory use restrictions:
      (1)   Height.   No accessory use shall be higher than:
         (a)   Fifteen feet in the Conservation District or in any residential
district; or
         (b)   Twenty-five feet in any other zoning district. Provided, that
there shall be no height limit on agriculture-related accessory structures.
      (2)   Setbacks. No accessory use in any zoning district shall be located
in any part of any yard (front, side, or rear) that is required because of the
setback regulations of the district; provided that, except as specifically
provided otherwise, in the Conservation District or in any residential
district, an accessory use may be located as close as five feet to any side or
rear lot line.
      (3)   Yard coverage. Accessory uses shall not cover more than 30% of a
required rear yard.
      (4)   Use as dwelling. Use of any accessory structure as a dwelling is
strictly prohibited throughout the village.
(1994 Code, § 40-3-12)
REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC DISTRICTS
§ 155.045 "C" CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   The "C" Conservation District encompasses areas that are presently
undeveloped or sparsely developed and that, for various reasons, should remain
so for the foreseeable future.
   (B)   Some tracts of land in this district are fertile and relatively level,
and best suited for agricultural pursuits.
   (C)   Other tracts in this district have the poor soils, steep slopes,
inadequate natural drainage and/or other problems, or are simply so distant
from existing developed areas that the provision and maintenance of roads,
utilities and storm water drainage systems would be impractical or burdensomely
expensive to the tax-paying public.
      (1)   One dwelling on one lot. In the "C" District, only one dwelling
shall be situated on any lot.
      (2)   Lot and building requirements. Every principal building erected in
the "C" District shall conform to the following requirements:
Minimum lot area                                     3 acres
Minimum lot width                                    250 feet at the
                                                     established building line
Minimum lot depth                                    250 feet
Minimum setbacks:
   From front lot line                            50 feet
   Side yards
      Minimum total setback from both side lot 25 feet
Minimum setback from either side lot line            7.5 feet
   From rear lot line                             50 feet
                                                     35 feet (does not apply to
Maximum building height:                             accessory agricultural
                                                     structures)
 
      (3)   Permitted uses. Agriculture, including all uses commonly classified
as such, provided the requirements of §
155.121 are met.
         (a)   Cemeteries;
         (b)   Government uses of the village;
         (c)   Nurseries, greenhouses, temporary produce stands;
         (d)   Single-family dwellings; and
         (e)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
155.031.
      (4)   Special uses.
         (a)   Agricultural implement sales;
         (b)   Amusement facilities, such as go-cart tracks, miniature golf
courses and the like;
         (c)   Animal hospitals;
         (d)   Churches and other places of formal worship;
         (e)   Clubs or lodges, private; but not those which have as their
chief activity a service customarily carried on as a business;
         (f)   Golf courses, regulation size;
         (g)   Government uses other than those of the village;
         (h)   Home occupations;
         (i)   Institutions such as convents, retreat houses, seminaries and
the like;
         (j)   Kennels, commercial;
         (k)   Nursing homes, sanitariums; and
         (l)   Utility substations.
(1994 Code, § 40-4-1)
§ 155.046 "R-1" SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   In the "R-1" Single-Family Residence District, land is principally
used for, or is best suited for, detached single-family dwellings and related
educational, religious and recreational facilities.
   (B)   The regulations for this district are intended to stabilize and
preserve sound existing single-family neighborhoods, and to promote the
development of subdivisions offering a range of new conventionally-constructed
single-family housing.
   (C)   Other types of residences: mobile homes, duplexes, apartments and the
like, are strictly prohibited in this district.
      (1)   Special restrictions.
         (a)   One principal building per lot: In the "R-1" District, only one
principal building shall be situated on any lot.
         (b)   No mobile homes.
            1.   No mobile home shall be brought into or placed anywhere in the
"R-1" District.
            2.   No existing mobile home in the "R-1" District shall be
immobilized, unless a special-use permit is granted.
            3.   It shall be unlawful to replace any existing mobile home
located in the "R-1" District, without a special-use permit from the Zoning
Board of Appeals. (See
Chapter 153 also.)
      (2)   Lot and building requirements. Every principal building erected in
the "R-1" District shall conform to the following requirements:
Minimum lot area                                 5,500 square feet
Minimum lot width (at established building line) 50 feet
Minimum lot depth                                110 feet
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line                        25 feet
   From either side lot line                  7.5 feet
   From rear lot line                         25 feet
Maximum building height                          35 feet
Minimum off-street parking                       2 spaces
 
      (3)   Permitted uses. Agriculture, including all uses commonly classified
as such, provided the requirements of §
155.121 are met:
         (a)   Government uses of the village;
         (b)   Single-family dwellings, conventionally-constructed; and
         (c)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
155.031.
      (4)   Special uses.
         (a)   Churches and related religious facilities;
         (b)   Government uses other than those of the village;
         (c)   Home occupations, but only in conformity with the requirements
of §
155.123;
         (d)   Schools; and
         (e)   Utility substations
(1994 Code, § 40-4-2)
§ 155.047 "R-2" ONE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   The "R-2" One-Family Residence District encompasses areas suitable for both
conventionally-constructed single-family dwellings and duplexes as well as
related educational, religious and recreational facilities.
   (A)   One single or two-family dwelling. In the "R-2" District, only one
single-family dwelling may be situated on any lot.
   (B)   Lot and building requirements. Every principal building erected in the
"R-2" District shall conform to the following requirements:
Minimum lot area                                 8,400 square feet
Minimum lot width (at established building line) 70 feet
Minimum lot depth                                120 feet
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line                        25 feet
   From either side lot line                  7.5 feet
   From rear lot line                         25 feet
Maximum building height                          35 feet
Minimum off-street parking                       2 spaces per dwelling unit
 
   (C)   Permitted uses. Any use permitted in the "R-1" District. Two-family
dwellings.
   (D)   Special uses. Any use allowed by special use permit in the "R-1"
District. Nursing homes.
(1994 Code, § 40-4-3)
§ 155.048 "R-3" MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   The "R-3" Multiple-Family Residence District is established to stabilize and
conserve existing neighborhoods that predominantly consist of multiple-family
dwellings and to promote the development of comparable new areas in order to
accommodate all persons desiring this type of residential environment.
   (A)   Lot and building requirements. Note: Detached single-family and two-
family dwellings erected in the "R-3" District shall comply with all applicable
regulations of the "R-2" District. Every principal building in the "R-3"
District shall conform to the requirements indicated below:
Minimum lot area                 9,600 square feet or 2,000 square feet/
                                 unit, whichever is greater
Minimum lot width(at established 80 feet or 20 feet unit, whichever is
building line)                   greater
Minimum lot depth                120 feet
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line        25 feet
   From any side lot line     7.5 feet
   From rear lot line         25 feet
Maximum building height          35 feet
Minimum off-street parking       2 spaces per dwelling unit.
 
   (B)   Permitted uses. Any use permitted in the "R-2" District. Multiple-
family dwellings.
   (C)   Special uses. Any use that may be allowed by special use permit in the
"R-2" District. Convenience shops (e.g., small drugstore, food store,
laundromat).
(1994 Code, § 40-4-3)
§ 155.049 (RESERVED).
§ 155.050 "B-1" COMMUNITY BUSINESS.
   The "B-1" Community Business District primarily encompasses the long-
established commercial areas of the village where a wide range of goods and
services is offered to the general public at retail or wholesale.
   (A)   Lot and building requirements. See also §
155.027.
 
Minimum lot area        None
Minimum lot width       50 feet
Minimum lot depth       None
                        Generally, none required, except as necessary to comply
                        with applicable off-street parking and loading
Minimum setbacks        requirements. However, any lot that abuts any
                        residential district shall meet the front setback and
                        side setback (on the side abutting the residential use)
                        requirements of the residential district.
Maximum building height 45 feet
 
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Churches and related facilities;
      (2)   Clubs and lodges;
      (3)   Commercial establishments, wholesale and retail;
      (4)   Government uses of the village;
      (5)   Medical/dental clinics;
      (6)   Offices;
      (7)   Service establishments;
      (8)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
155.031; and
      (9)   Any use permitted in the "R-3" District. See §
155.046.
   (C)   Special uses.
      (1)   Government uses other than those of the village; and
      (2)   Utility substations.
(1994 Code, § 40-4-6)
§ 155.051 "B-2" HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The "B-2" Highway Business District is intended to accommodate and regulate
strip commercial developments and compatible uses. Since the businesses, both
retail and wholesale, draw their patrons primarily from the motoring public,
they typically require direct access to major streets and large lots for off-
street parking and loading.
   (A)   Use restrictions.
      (1)   Repairs indoors. All repair and maintenance services shall be
conducted within completely enclosed structures. Storage areas may be open to
the sky, but shall be enclosed by walls or solid fences at least eight feet
high.
      (2)   Refuse containers. All refuse generated by facilities located
within this district shall be stored in tightly-covered containers placed in
visually-screened areas.
      (3)   Screening. Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting
any residential district, screening (a wall, solid fence, or closely-planted
shrubbery) at least six feet high which completely blocks the view from the
adjacent residential property shall be installed.
      (4)   Parking. See §
155.065 through
155.071.
      (5)   Signs. See §
155.085 through
155.109.
   (B)   Lot and building requirements. Every principal building erected in the
"B-2" Highway Business District shall conform to the requirements indicated
below:
Minimum lot area                                     20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                                    125 feet at the
                                                     established building line
Minimum lot depth                                    150 feet
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line                            50 feet
   Side yards:
      Minimum total setback from both side lot 50 feet
      Minimum setback from either side lot line20 feet
   From rear lot line                             25 feet
Maximum structure height                             35 feet
 
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Provided all the use restrictions of this district are observed,
the following uses are permitted:
         (a)   Any use permitted in the "B-1" District;
         (b)   Churches and related facilities;
         (c)   Clubs and lodges; and
         (d)   Commercial establishments, any type including drive-in
facilities.
      (2)   The uses as the following are especially appropriate in this
district:
         (a)   Bowling alleys;
         (b)   Furniture and appliance sales;
         (c)   Greenhouses;
         (d)   Lumber and building supplies sales;
         (e)   Mobile home and recreational vehicles sales;
         (f)   Motor vehicles sales;
         (g)   Government uses;
         (h)   Offices; and
         (i)   Service establishments, any type, including drive-in facilities.
      (3)   Such uses as the following are especially appropriate in this
district:
         (a)   Animal hospitals;
         (b)   Banks and other financial institutions;
         (c)   Motels;
         (d)   Motor vehicles services;
         (e)   Restaurants;
         (f)   Service stations; and
         (g)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
155.031.
   (D)   Special uses. Provided all the use restrictions of this district are
observed, the following uses may be allowed by special use permit (see §
155.051):
      (1)   Drive-in theaters;
      (2)   Bus terminals, and bus transportation facilities;
      (3)   Research and development facilities not involving explosives,
flammable gases or liquids, or live animals;
      (4)   Utility substations; and
      (5)   Warehousing and wholesaling of any goods except explosives,
flammable gases or liquids, or live animals.
(1994 Code, § 40-4-7)
§ 155.052 "I" INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   The "I" Industrial District is intended to provide for areas where light
industry, research facilities, warehouses and wholesale businesses may locate
without detriment to the remainder of the community. In these areas, a
satisfactory correlation of factors required by the uses exists or can be
readily achieved.
   (A)   Use restriction.
      (1)   No nuisances. No production, processing, cleaning, servicing,
testing, repair, sale or storage of goods, materials or equipment shall
unreasonably interfere with the use, occupancy or enjoyment of neighboring
properties or the community as a whole. Unreasonable interferences include, but
are not limited to, excessive traffic congestion, loud or shrill noises,
excessive emission of smoke, emission of toxic gases, excessive glare and
noxious odors.
      (2)   Activities enclosed. All production, processing, cleaning,
servicing, testing or repair activities shall be conducted within completely
enclosed buildings. Storage areas may be open to the sky, but shall be enclosed
by walls or fences (whether solid or chain-link), including gates, at least
eight feet high.
      (3)   Buffer strips. Wherever any industrial use located in this district
abuts any residential district, a 20-foot wide view and noise control buffer
strip shall be installed. The buffer strip shall consist of densely planted
shrubbery that is at least five feet high when planted and that can be expected
to reach a height of ten feet when full grown.
   (B)   Lot and structure requirements.
Minimum lot area          20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width         125 feet at the established building line
Minimum lot depth         150 feet
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line 25 feet
   From any side lot li25 feet
   From rear lot line  25 feet
Maximum structure height  60 feet
 
   (C)   Permitted uses. Provided all the use restrictions of this district are
observed, the following uses are permitted: See division (A) above.
      (1)   Adult uses as defined and regulated by the Adult Licensing and
Regulation Ordinance of the village;
      (2)   Assembly, manufacturing or processing of any commodity from
semifinished materials provided explosives, flammable gases or liquids, or live
animals are not involved;
      (3)   Freight and bus terminals and related mass transportation
facilities;
      (4)   Any use permitted in the "B-1" or "B-2" Districts except single
and/or multi-family dwellings;
      (5)   Research and development facilities not involving explosives, or
flammable gases or liquids;
      (6)   Service stations;
      (7)   Warehousing or wholesaling of goods except explosives, flammable
gases or liquids, or live animals;
      (8)   Utility substations or government uses; and
      (9)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
155.031.
   (D)   Special uses. All uses permitted in the "R-3" District ( i.e.
dwellings).
(1994 Code, § 40-4-8)
§ 155.053 "O-FP" FLOOD PLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The "O-FP" Flood Plain Overlay District delineates areas that, in the
absence of flood protection measures, are subject to periodic flooding which
may result in injury to or loss of life and property, disruption of private and
governmental services, impairment of the village tax base, and the need for
extraordinary relief measures.
   (B)   The regulations of this section are intended to restrict permitted
development in flood plains to:
      (1)   Uses which inherently have low flood damage potential and to:
      (2)   Other uses allowed in the primary zoning districts provided
appropriate protective measures have been taken. See
Chapter 152 of this Code of Ordinances.
   (C)   This overlay district has no effect on the classification, whether
permitted, special or prohibited, of uses in the primary zoning districts.
Rather, this overlay district imposes additional restrictions on both permitted
and special uses. The regulations and requirements of Chapter 13 Article I of
the "Revised Code of Ordinances" shall be the controlling law for flood plain
uses.
(1994 Code, § 40-4-9)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 155.065 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   General. Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in
accordance with this subchapter for all structures and uses erected or
established after the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Existing parking/loading facilities.
      (1)   Existing off-street parking or loading facilities located on the
same lot as the use served shall not be reduced or if already less than, shall
not be further reduced below the requirements and standards for similar new
structures or uses.
      (2)   When an existing structure or use is damaged or destroyed and
subsequently repaired or rebuilt, parking/loading facilities equivalent to any
maintained at the time of the damage or destruction shall be restored, but
additional parking/loading spaces need not be provided.
      (3)   Whenever the use of any structure or premises is intensified
through addition of dwelling units, increased floor area, greater seating
capacity and the like, additional off-street parking and loading spaces
commensurate with the intensification shall be provided.
      (4)   Whenever the existing use of a structure is changed to a different
use, off-street parking or loading facilities shall be provided as required
herein for the new use.
(1994 Code, § 40-5-1)
§ 155.066 PARKING LOT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All off-street parking lots shall conform to the standards indicated in the
subsections which follow:
   (A)   Spaces.
      (1)   Every off-street parking space shall be at least ten feet wide and
20 feet long, and shall have at least seven feet of vertical clearance. Every
space shall be situated so that no part of any parked vehicle overhangs the
public right-of-way.
      (2)   Markings shall be laid and restored as often as necessary to
clearly delineate each parking space.
   (B)   Interior aisles. Aisles within parking lots shall be sufficiently wide
to permit safe and efficient vehicular movement in the aisles, and into and out
of parking spaces. Aisles designed for two-way traffic shall be at least 22
feet wide. One-way aisles designed for 60-degree parking shall be at least 18
feet wide.
   (C)   Access ways.
      (1)   Parking lots shall be designed so that ingress to or egress from a
parking space is from an aisle or driveway, not directly from the public right-
of-way.
      (2)   No access way to any parking lot shall be located within 30 feet of
any corner formed by the intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more
streets. At intersections where traffic control devices are installed, the
Administrator may increase this requirement as necessary to prevent hazards.
      (3)   Parking lot access ways (as well as residential driveways) and
public street shall be aligned to form, as closely as feasible, right angles.
      (4)   The access way to every parking lot located in any business
district or in the Industrial District shall be at least 24 feet wide unless
two one-way drives, each 12 feet wide, are provided.
      (5)   The access way to every parking lot located in any residential
district or in the Conservation District shall be at least ten feet wide; but
if the parking area contains more than eight parking spaces or if the access
way is longer than 100 feet, access shall be provided either by one two-way
drive at least 20 feet wide or by two one-way drives, each at least ten feet
wide.
   (D)   Surfacing. Parking lots shall be graded and improved with a compacted
stone base at least four inches thick, surfaced with at least two inches of
asphaltic concrete or approved comparable material. (Note: "Oil and chip" is
not comparable material.)
   (E)   Lighting. Any light(s) used to illuminate any parking lot shall be
arranged or shielded so as to confine direct light rays within the lot lines of
the parking lot to the greatest extent practicable.
   (F)   Landscaping. In order to reduce heat and glare, to minimize blowing of
dust and trash, and to reduce the oppressive visual effects of large open
parking areas, landscaping shall be provided and maintained within every
parking lot that contains 20 or more parking spaces.
      (1)   A landscaping plan (either a separate document or an element of a
more inclusive development plan) shall accompany every application for an
initial certificate of zoning compliance to develop any parking lot that will
contain 20 or more spaces.
      (2)   The landscaping plan shall include the following information:
         (a)   Proposed type, amount, size and spacing of plantings, including
trees, shrubbery and ground cover;
         (b)   Proposed size, construction materials and drainage of landscaped
islands; and
         (c)   Sketch indicating proposed spatial relationships of landscaped
areas, parking spaces, automobile circulation and pedestrian movement.
(1994 Code, § 40-5-2)
§ 155.067 LOCATION OF PARKING.
   All off-street parking shall be located in conformity with the following
requirements.
   (A)   For dwellings.
      (1)   Parking spaces accessory to any dwelling shall be located on the
same lot as the dwelling. The parking spaces shall not be located in any front
yard except in the driveway, but may be located in the side or rear yards.
      (2)   Each parking space accessory to a multi-family dwelling shall be
unobstructed so that no vehicle need be moved in order to allow another vehicle
to enter/exit the parking area; provided that this requirement shall not be
applicable to two-family dwellings.
   (B)   For business/industrial uses.
      (1)   Every off-street parking space accessory to any business or
industrial use shall be located within 500 feet of the use served; provided,
that no portion of any parking lot for non-residential uses shall extend into
any residential district or into the Conservation District except by written
permission of the Administrator.
      (2)   In any business district or in the Industrial District, off-street
parking facilities for different buildings or uses may be provided
collectively; but only if the total number of spaces so located together is not
less than the sum of the separate requirements for each use, and if all other
pertinent regulations are observed.
(1994 Code, § 40-5-3)
§ 155.068 DESIGN AND LOCATION OF OFF-STREET LOADING FACILITIES.
   All off-street loading facilities shall conform to the minimum standards
indicated below.
   (A)   Size of space. Every off-street loading space shall be at least 12
feet wide and 45 feet long exclusive of aisle and maneuver space, and shall
have vertical clearance of at least 14 feet. In no case shall a vehicle being
loaded or unloaded overhang into the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Access way. Every off-street loading space shall have a safe means of
vehicular access to a street or alley. The access way shall be at least 12 feet
wide.
   (C)   Surfacing. Every off-street loading area shall be improved with a
compacted stone base at least seven inches thick, surfaced with at least two
inches of asphaltic concrete or approved comparable material.
   (D)   Buffer strips. No loading space or area for vehicles over two-ton
cargo capacity shall be developed closer than 50 feet to the lot line of any
lot located in any residential district or in the Conservation District unless
the space/area is completely enclosed by walls, a solid fence or closely
planted shrubbery at least ten feet in height and of sufficient density to
block the view from residential property.
   (E)   Location. Every off-street loading space shall be located on the same
parcel of land as the use served, and not closer than 50 feet to the
intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more streets, and not on any
required front yard.
(1994 Code, § 40-5-4)
§ 155.069 COMPUTATION OF REQUIRED PARKING/LOADING SPACES.
   In computing the number of parking spaces required by this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator shall apply the following rules.
   (A)   In computing parking space requirements based on the number of
employees, the maximum number of employees on the premises at any period of the
day shall be used. EMPLOYEE PARKING means "one parking space shall be required
per one and one-half employees", unless otherwise stated.
   (B)   In computing parking or loading space requirements on the basis of
building floor area, the gross floor area shall be used.
   (C)   Whenever it is necessary to translate gross parking lot area into
number of parking spaces, 350 square feet of gross area shall be deemed one
parking space.
   (D)   If computation of the number of parking or loading spaces required by
this chapter results in a fractional space, any fraction of one-half or more
shall be counted as one space.
   (E)   No space or portion thereof needed to satisfy the minimum applicable
requirement for number of off-street parking or loading spaces shall be counted
as part of the off-street parking or loading spaces required for another
structure or use.
(1994 Code, § 40-5-5)
§ 155.070 NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided as indicated
in tabular form below. For any use that is not listed in the table, the same
amount of parking and loading space shall be provided as is required for the
most similar listed use.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall make the determination of similarity.
Use Parking Spaces Required Loading Spaces Required
Use                       Parking Spaces Required    Loading Spaces Required
(A)   Dwellings, lodgings:
                          1 space per lodging unit,  1 space if the use has
Motels, boarding houses   plus employee parking      20,000 square feet or more
                                                     of floor area
Mobile homes              2 spaces per mobile home   NA
Multiple-family dwellings 2 spaces per dwelling unit NA
Single-family and two     2 spaces per dwelling unit NA
family dwellings
(B)   Educational, institutional, recreational:
Churches, assembly halls  1 space per 4 seats in the NA
                          largest seating area
Libraries, museums        1 space per 500 square     On review by the
                          feet of floor area         Administrator
                                                     To 50,000 square feet of
Nursing homes             1 space per 5 beds         floor area: 1 space;
                                                     50,001 to 100,000 square
                                                     feet: 2 spaces
                          1 space for every 20
Schools (elementary and   students that the building On review by the
junior high)              is designed to             Administrator
                          accommodate, plus employee
                          parking
(C)   Commercial, office, service:
                                                     To 10,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area: 1 space. More
Note: All commercial and                             than 10,000 square feet: 1
service uses, unless      1 space per 300 square     space plus 1 additional
specifically indicated    feet of floor area         space per 50,000 square
otherwise below                                      feet of floor area in
                                                     excess of 10,000 square
                                                     feet
Banks, savings and loans
                                                     (Both walk-in and drive-
                          1 space per 300 square     in) To 30,000 square feet
   Walk-in             feet of floor area, plus   of floor area: none
                          employee parking           required; 30,001 to
                                                     100,000 square feet: 1
                                                     space
   Drive-in            5 spaces per teller window
Beauty and barber shops   2 spaces per chair, plus   NA
                          employee parking
                          4 spaces per bowling lane
                          plus additional spaces as  NA, except as required for
Bowling alleys            required herein for        affiliated uses
                          affiliated uses such as
                          restaurants and taverns
Car wash                  5 spaces per wash lane     NA
                                                     To 25,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area: 2 spaces; more
                                                     than 25,000 square feet of
Furniture and appliance   1 space per 600 square     floor area: 2 spaces, plus
stores                    feet of floor area         1 additional space per
                                                     25,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area in excess of
                                                     25,000 square feet
                          1 space per 150 square
                          feet of floor area devoted
Home occupations          to the home occupation in  NA
                          addition to the parking
                          requirements for the
                          dwelling
Offices generally, but                               To 30,000 square feet of
not medical/dental        1 space per 300 square     floor area: none required.
offices                   feet of floor area         30,001 to 100,000 square
                                                     feet: one space
                          1 space per 200 square
Offices, medical/dental   feet of floor area, or 3   NA
                          spaces per professional,
                          whichever is greater
                          1 space per 5 seats plus 1
                          space per funeral vehicle,
Mortuaries                but not less than 20
                          spaces per chapel or state
                          room
                                                     (Both sit-down and drive-
Restaurants, refreshment                             in: 1 space per structure
stands                                               having 10,000 square feet
                                                     or more of floor area
                          1 space per 4 seats or 1
Sit-down                  space per 50 square feet
                          of floor area, whichever
                          is greater
Drive-in                  1 space per 25 square feet
                          of floor area
                          2 spaces per service
Service stations          stall, plus employee       NA
                          parking
                          1 space per 2 seats or 1   1 space per structure
Taverns                   space per 50 square feet   having 10,000 square feet
                          of floor area, whichever   or more of floor area
                          is greater
Theaters                                             NA
                          1 space per 600 square
                          feet of enclosed floor
                          area, plus: Up to 10,000   To 25,000 square feet of
                          square feet of open lot    floor area and open lot
                          area devoted to sale/      area: 2 spaces, More than
Vehicle sales (autos,     display of vehicles: 1     25,000 square feet of
boats, trailers and the   space per 25,000 square    floor area and open lot
like)                     feet fo open lot area.     area: 2 spaces, plus 1
                          Above 10,000 square feet:  additional space per
                          4 spaces, plus 1           25,000 square feet in
                          additional space per 5,000 excess of 25,000 square
                          square feet of open lot    feet
                          area in excess of 10,000
                          square feet
(D)   Industrial:
                                                     To 20,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area: 1 space;
                          Employee parking (1.5      20,001 to 50,000 square
                          spaces per employee) plus  feet: 2 spaces; 50,001 to
Any manufacturing,        1 space per company        90,000 square feet: 3
warehousing or other      vehicle, plus 1 visitor    spaces; above 90,000
industrial use            space per 25 employees on  square feet: 3 spaces,
                          the major shift            plus 1 additional space
                                                     per 50,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area in excess of
                                                     90,000 square feet
 
(1994 Code, § 40-5-6(a))
§ 155.071 TRUCKS PROHIBITED.
   Semi-trucks and heavy duty commercial vehicles are hereby prohibited from
parking on commercial parking lots.
(1994 Code, § 40-5-6(b))
SIGN/BILLBOARD REGULATIONS
§ 155.085 PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   This chapter shall be consistent with the Highway Advertising Control Act of
1971, ILCS Ch. 225, Act 440 and the regulations adopted to interpret that Act,
see 93 State Administrative Code, Part 522. The terms and definitions of that
Act, the accompanying regulations and the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-101, shall guide the interpretation of this code. For the
purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Highway Advertising Control Act of 1971, ILCS Ch. 225, Act 440, §§
1 et seq.
   BILLBOARD. Any signboard or similar structure, the sole or primary purpose
of which is to be used for the display of advertisements or notices. Each
single display side of a multi-sided signboard shall be considered as a
separate BILLBOARD. For the purpose of this chapter, a SIGN is included within
the definition of BILLBOARD.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.086 NOTICES.
   Notices described in this chapter may be served in the following manner:
   (A)   Any method permitted for the service of a summons or other legal
process; or
   (B)   When notice by certified mail is described and the addressee fails or
refuses to pick up the certified mail, notice shall then be sent by regular
mail, postage prepaid; the date of receipt of the notice by mail shall be
presumed as five business days from the initial date of mailing by certified
mail.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.087 PERMIT; REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   It is unlawful to construct or maintain a billboard within the village
without having first secured a permit therefor from the village.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above, no permit is required for the construction
or maintenance of a billboard or signboard, other than a roof sign, the total
display area of which does not exceed 36 square feet.
   (C)   No license issued hereunder shall be construed to authorize the
construction or maintenance of a billboard which extends over any public
street, or any part of which extends over or above any public street, alley or
sidewalk or other public place. Those billboards are unlawful.
   (D)   Each billboard, including those that do not require a permit, shall
conform to any zoning or subdivision statutes, rules or regulations that may
apply to the location of that billboard.
   (E)   Signs or billboards that are constructed or maintained in violation of
this section are unlawful. In addition the village may seek any lawful remedy
to have the sign corrected or removed, including but not limited to injunctive
relief.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.088 PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   Applications for the permits shall be made in writing to the Clerk. Each
application shall state thereon the name of the owner of the premises, the name
of the person or corporation constructing the billboard; and specifications
showing the size, location, material and manner of construction of the
billboard. A construction permit expires six months after it is issued.
Permittees shall provide to the village, within 180 days of completion,
evidence that the sign has been constructed according to the application and
permit. The evidence may include "as built" plans or affidavits, but preferably
by photographs of the erection of the signs.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.089 RENEWAL OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Signs must be erected within 180 days of the date the permit is
issued. The permittee shall apply for a renewal permit in the event the sign is
not erected within this period. The permit application requirements in this
section shall apply to renewal of permits.
   (B)   Upon a change in permittee or sign ownership, the new permittee or
owner of the sign shall notify the village of the sign permit or registration
number and the old and new permittee or sign owners' names within 60 days after
the change in permittee or sign ownership. No application fee is required under
these circumstances. Any permit or registration not so renewed shall become
revocable in accordance with the provisions of §§
155.090 through
155.094 below.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.090 REGISTRATION AND ABATEMENT OF EXISTING SIGNS.
   (A)   All signs erected prior to January 1, 2006 shall be registered with
the village on or before May 1, 2006. The annual registration fee for these
signs will begin January 1, 2007.
   (B)   Any sign erected prior to January 1, 2006 that does not conform to
this chapter shall either be removed or made to conform to this chapter on or
before January 1, 2007.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.091 NOTICE OF INTENT TO REVOKE.
   Whenever the village determines that grounds exist for the revocation of a
permit or registration (including but not limited to false information in the
application, errors in permit processing, failure to erect what was permitted
or any other violation of the Act or this chapter), the village shall notify
the permittee by certified mail of its intent to revoke the permit. This notice
shall be called the "notice of intent to revoke permit" ("notice") and shall
inform the permittee that within 30 calendar days from receipt of the notice
the permittee must reply. The procedures in this section shall not apply when a
permit has expired with any sign being erected within 180 days of issuance.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.092 REPLY OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   (1)   The reply shall be made to the village in writing and received
at that office within the 30-day period. No time extensions will be permitted.
      (2)   The reply shall specifically state one of the following:
         (a)   That the sign has been removed. In such case, evidence of the
removal (an affidavit or photograph) shall be submitted with the reply; or
         (b)   That the problem cited in the notice of intent to revoke has
been corrected or that measures to correct the problem will be undertaken in
the manner and within the times set forth in the reply. Evidence of the
correction (an affidavit or photograph) shall be submitted with the reply.
   (B)   If the permittee fails to reply or to reply within the 30-day period,
the notice shall constitute the "30 day letter" as provided for in §
155.094 below and shall have the same force and effect as same.
   (C)   If the evidence submitted with the reply shows that the sign has been
removed, then the village will notify the permittee that the permit is revoked.
   (D)   If the evidence shows that the permittee has corrected the problem,
the village will so notify the permittee and the notice shall be considered
null and void.
   (E)   If the village finds that the evidence submitted with the reply fails
to show that the sign has been removed or that no measures have been taken or
proposed to correct the problem and no review is requested, the village will
issue a "30 day letter" in accordance with §
155.094 below.
   (F)   That the permittee disputes the grounds stated in the notice and
requests a review.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.093 REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Proceedings.
      (1)   In response to the timely receipt of the reply requesting a review,
the Superintendent of Public Works shall notify the Village Clerk within ten
days that a review request has been received. A copy of the notification shall
also be sent to the permittee, Mayor and the Board of Trustees. The
Superintendent of Public Works or the Mayor may designate another person to
perform the duties in this section.
      (2)   The Superintendent of Public Works and the permittee shall submit
to the Mayor and Board of Trustees or designee, written argument in duplicate
supporting their positions within 30 days of the review request being received
by the Mayor and the Board of Trustees.
         (a)   Written arguments must contain proposed findings of fact and
conclusions of law.
         (b)   The Village Clerk or designee will provide the Superintendent of
Public Works and the permittee with a copy of the opposing parties' written
arguments.
         (c)   Written rebuttal arguments will be considered only if received
in duplicate by the Village Clerk or designee within 15 days after the date
each party receives the opposing party's written arguments. The Village Clerk
or designee will also provide a copy of the rebuttal arguments to each party.
         (d)   These arguments shall be submitted by the Village Clerk to the
Mayor and the Board of Trustees and to the permittee.
         (e)   The Mayor and the Board of Trustees or designee may hold a
conference if it is necessary to adjudicate the conflicting facts or to
simplify relevant issues. Conferences may be held in person or by telephone.
      (3)   Within 30 days after receipt of arguments and exhibits and a
conference, if one is held, the Mayor and the Board of Trustees or designee
shall render the decision and promptly notify the Superintendent of Public
Works and the permittee in writing by certified mail of the decision. The
decision will be based on the written arguments, the fact finding conference
and relevant exhibits.
      (4)   If the permittee fails to submit written arguments or does not
submit them within the 30 days period, the resultant decision will be that the
allegation or allegations as set forth in the notice of intent to revoke permit
are true, correct and proven.
      (5)   If the Superintendent of Public Works fails to submit written
arguments or does not submit them within the 30-day period, the resultant
decision will be that the allegation or allegations set forth in the notice of
intent to revoke permit are unproven.
   (B)   Village legal action following review.
      (1)   If a sign has been found to be unlawful, the village shall issue a
"30-day letter" as provided in §
155.094 below.
      (2)   If a sign has been found to be in compliance with this chapter, the
permit will be considered lawful.
      (3)   If the Mayor or designee finds that insufficient information has
been provided, he or she shall direct the parties to supply the needed
information so that a decision can be rendered.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.094 ISSUANCE OF THE "30-DAY LETTER".
   (A)   When the village has found a sign to be unlawful as provided in § 10
of the Act or this chapter, the village shall notify the permittee or sign
owner by certified mail of the following.
      (1)   The sign must be removed or brought into compliance within 30-days'
from receipt of notice.
      (2)   After the 30-day period, the sign shall become the property of the
village if not removed or brought into compliance.
      (3)   The village shall sell, by public sale, auction or sealed bids;
remove or paint over all unlawful signs which have not been removed or brought
into compliance within the 30 days period or shall seek a court order to force
abatement by the sign owner.
      (4)   The sign owner shall reimburse the village for all costs incurred
by the village in selling, removing or painting over the sign.
   (B)   The village shall take the action described in the notice.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.095 WIND PRESSURE REQUIREMENT.
   Every billboard shall be firmly and solidly constructed so as to be able to
bear a wind pressure of at least 30 pounds per square foot of area, provided
that billboards that are placed upon roofs must be constructed as to be able to
withstand a lateral wind pressure of 40 pounds per square inch.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.096 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE ESCAPES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any billboards in such a position
as to obstruct any fire escape or any window or door leading thereto and no
billboard shall be fastened to any fire escape.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.097 HEIGHT ABOVE GROUND.
   Every billboard must be so constructed as to leave an open space of at least
two and one-half feet between the bottom of the display area and the ground.
This open area may be filled with latticework or other ornamental design that
does not close off more than two thirds of any square foot of the open area.
Billboards constructed on property on which there is a properly established
building line restriction, if the billboard is to be constructed in violation
of the building line restriction.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.098 FIREPROOF CONSTRUCTION AND GROUNDS REQUIREMENT.
   It is unlawful to construct any billboard of over 15 square feet in area
anywhere in the corporate limits of the village unless the face of the
billboard complies with applicable fire and safety codes adopted by the
village. The grass or foliage under and surrounding all billboards must be kept
at a height of not more than ten inches for a distance of ten feet from the
billboard and shall be kept free of all paper and other debris.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.099 LOCATION OF BILLBOARD; FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall locate, build, construct, operate
or maintain any billboard in any block in the village where a majority of the
houses abutting on both sides of the street in the block are used exclusively
for residence purposes without having first secured the written consent of the
owners of a majority of the frontage abutting on the street on both sides
within the block.
   (B)   The term BLOCK as used in this section shall be construed to mean and
include that portion of the street between the two intersections with other
public streets nearest the specified location on each side, provided that if on
either or both sides of the location there is no intersection within three
hundred feet of the center of the specified location the block shall be
considered as terminating at a point 300 feet from the center.
   (C)   The term STREET as used in this section shall be construed to mean and
include the highways as have been dedicated by either common law or statutory
dedication as public streets and are actually in use as such, and the term
STREET shall not be construed to include or mean merely service highways which
are commonly known as alleys.
   (D)   Frontage consents, once secured and filed, shall not be withdrawn and
need not be renewed excepting on the construction of a new billboard to replace
the one for which the consents were granted. But where consents are required
and have been obtained for the construction of one or more billboards on any
particular lot, additional consents for any additional billboard on the same
lot must be secured and filed in accordance with the provision of this section.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the above, no sign or billboard shall be located
within a residential zoning district. Any sign within 200 feet of a residential
district shall require a special use permit, subject to the procedures in this
chapter. This special use permit shall be in addition to any other requirement.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.100 CONFORMING TO IDOT STANDARDS.
   The State Department of Transportation has adopted statutes, rules and
regulations for the control of outdoor advertising adjacent to primary and
interstate highways. These include the Highway Advertising Control Act of 1971,
ILCS Ch. 225, Act 440, § 1 as amended, and Part 522 of Title 92 of the Illinois
Administrative Code, as amended. Any sign the construction, installation,
maintenance, failure to maintain or failure to remove of which is in violation
of those statutes, rules or regulations are also in violation of the code of
ordinances of the village and are unlawful. The signs are also declared to be a
nuisance. The person or persons liable for the violations shall be subject to
fines, abatement of nuisance and such other remedies authorized by the code of
ordinances or otherwise authorized by law.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.101 ROOF SIGNS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to construct any billboard on the roof of any building
or structure of any but incombustible materials.
   (B)   All the roof signs or billboards must be so constructed that there is
at least four feet of space between the billboard or signboard and the edge of
the roof at all sides and ends.
   (C)   It is unlawful to construct any roof sign or billboard on the roof of
any building that is unable to withstand the additional weight and wind
pressure imposed by the construction. The roof sign or billboard must be in
compliance with §
155.095 above.
   (D)   All roof signs and billboards shall be supported and anchored in a
safe and secure manner consistent with the nature, size and construction of the
building and the sign or billboard.
   (E)   The metal supports and parts of every roof sign shall be thoroughly
and properly painted at least once each five years, unless they are galvanized
or otherwise adequately protected against rust and corrosion.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.102 BILLBOARDS AGAINST BUILDINGS.
   It is unlawful to construct any billboard, a majority of which is within
four feet of any building unless the billboard is constructed of noncombustible
material.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.103 ILLUMINATED BILLBOARDS.
   The wiring of illuminated billboards and signboards must comply with the
provisions of the ordinances related to electrical wiring.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.104 SIGNS THAT MAY NOT BE ERECTED OR MAINTAINED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the term CODE refers to the State
Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-101.
   (B)   The following signs shall not be erected or maintained:
      (1)   Signs located within the right-of-way of an interstate or primary
highway or on any structure, wire, cable or other device over or above an
interstate or primary highway right-of-way except the following:
         (a)   Signs designating the name of the railroad that owns the bridge;
         (b)   Signs designating the clearance provided (§§ 9-112.1 and 9-112.2
of the Code) by the bridge;
         (c)   Public utility signs;
         (d)   Signs required by the Code;
         (e)   Signs required by the State Vehicle Code; and
         (f)   Signs, displays and devices giving specific information in the
interest of the traveling public erected and maintained by the village or by
the State Toll Highway Authority.
      (2)   Signs which attempt or appear to attempt to direct the movement of
traffic or which contain wording, color or shape which are similar to official
traffic control signs or other traffic control devices. (§ 9-112.2 of the
Code);
      (3)   Signs which contain oscillating, rotating, flashing, intermittent
or moving light or lights (§ 9-112.2 of the Code) except the following:
         (a)   Signs giving public service information including but not
limited to time, weather, date and temperature (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 440, § 6.02
(a)) and signs with displays that change not more frequently than once every 60
minutes;
         (b)   Pole supported business or brand identification signs inside
business areas with constant illumination and color and in which the only
movement is a slow rotation of the entire body of the sign so as to be visible
from all directions (§ 9-112.2 of the Code); or
         (c)   On premise signs which comply with ILCS Ch. 225, Act 440, §
15.24114(g).
      (4)   Signs that are erected, painted or drawn upon trees, rocks or other
natural features (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 440, § 5);
      (5)   Signs that are obsolete (i.e. advertise something that is no longer
there) or structurally unsafe or in disrepair (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 440, § 5)
unless the structural conditions may be repaired in accordance with the
provisions of the Act, and the sign owner agrees in writing to make the repairs
within 30 days after receipt of the notice to remove. Signs which project beams
or rays of light at the traveled way of a state highway or cause the beam or
rays to create glare or to impair the vision of a driver of any motor vehicle
(ILCS Ch. 225, Act 440, § 6.02(b));
      (6)   Signs that are located within 1,000 feet of official traffic signs,
signals or devices and obscure or interfere with a driver’s view of the sign,
signal or device (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 440, § 6.03(a));
      (7)   Signs that are located within 1,000 feet of approaching, merging or
intersecting traffic and obscure or interfere with a driver’s view of the
traffic (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 440, § 6.03(a));
      (8)   Signs that require a permit for erection or registration under this
subchapter and for which no permit or registration have been issued;
      (9)   Signs that contain any pornographic materials or scenes;
      (10)   Signs which contain any animated or moving parts (ILCS Ch. 225,
Act 440, § 4.02(g));
      (11)   Signs that violate airport hazard zoning regulations adopted by
the village pursuant to the Airport Zoning Act (ILCS Ch. 820, Act 25) (See §
522 Illustration J of 93 Ill. Admin. Code, Part 522); or
      (12)   Signs erected adjacent to a scenic byway that is a primary or
interstate highway after August 2, 1996 except those signs described in ILCS
Ch. 225, Act 440, §§ 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.06 and 4.08 (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 440, §
5(d)).
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.105 STANDARDS FOR OFFICIAL NOTICES.
   In addition to the standards set forth in §
155.104 above, the following standards apply to official notices:
   (A)   Service club and religious notices shall not exceed 36 square feet in
area; and
   (B)   Public service signs may be located only on school bus stop shelters
that are authorized by and are located at places approved by city, county or
state law, regulation or ordinance. Only safety slogans or messages may be
displayed on the sign and the slogans or messages shall occupy not less than
50% of the sign area. The remaining 50% may contain only the identity of the
donor, sponsor or contributor of the shelter. The signs may not exceed 32
square feet in area. Not more than one sign on each shelter shall face in any
one direction.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.106 DIRECTIONAL SIGNS.
   In addition to the standards set forth in §
155.100, the following standards shall apply to permanent directional signs:
   (A)   To be eligible for determination, privately owned attractions of
activities must be nationally or regionally known, and of outstanding interest
to the traveling public. The village will make a determination of eligibility
for each attraction or activity based on the information provided in the
submission, including any licenses held. In making this determination, the
village will avail itself of the experience and knowledge of selected groups in
the specific type of attraction or activity being considered. These groups
shall include, but not be limited to, commissions, boards or other agencies of
the state or village. The intent of the village is to limit signs to the
promotion of economic, commercial, educational, cultural, historic and tourism
activities and sites;
   (B)   No sign may be located within 2,000 feet of an interchange, or
intersection at grade along an interstate highway or expressway (measured from
the nearest point of the beginning or ending of pavement widening at the exit
from or entrance to the main traveled way);
   (C)   No sign may be located within 2,000 feet of a rest area, parkland or
scenic area;
   (D)   No two signs facing the same direction of travel shall be spaced less
than one mile apart;
   (E)   Not more than three signs pertaining to the same activity and facing
the same direction of travel may be erected along a single route approaching
the activity in the village;
   (F)   The signs located along interstate highways shall be within ten air
miles of the activity;
   (G)   The signs located along primary highways shall be within ten miles of
the activity;
   (H)   The message on the signs shall be limited to the identification of the
attraction or activity and directional information useful to the traveler in
locating the attraction, such as mileage, route numbers or exit numbers.
Descriptive words or phrases and pictorial or photographic representations of
the activity or its environs are prohibited;
   (I)   No sign shall exceed the following limits:
      (1)   Maximum area: 150 square feet;
      (2)   Maximum heights: 20 feet; and
      (3)   Maximum length: 20 feet.
   (J)   All dimensions include border and trim, but exclude supports.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.107 ON-PREMISE SIGNS.
   In addition to the standards set forth in §
155.104 above, the following standards shall apply to on premise signs located
along interstate highways outside business areas.
   (A)   There may not be more than one sign located more than 50 feet from the
advertised activity designed to attract traffic proceeding on any one direction
(§ 4.03(a) of the Act).
   (B)   No sign located more than 50 feet from the advertised activity which
displays any trade name referring to or identifying any service rendered or
product sold, used or otherwise handled, may be permitted unless the name of
the advertised activity is displayed as conspicuously as such trade name. This
restriction does not apply if the trade name identifies or characterizes places
for lodging, eating, telephone facilities, vehicle service and repair, or
identifies vehicle equipment, parts, accessories, fuels, oils or lubricants
being offered for sale at those places (§ 4.03(b) of the Act).
   (C)   No sign which is located more than 50 feet from the activities
conducted upon the property where the sign is located may exceed 20 feet in
length, width or height or 150 square feet in area, including border and trim,
but excluding supports (§ 4.03(b) and (c) of the Act).
   (D)   No sign shall be erected or maintained by a lessee on property that is
not being leased for lessee's advertised activity.
   (E)   The signs may be erected and maintained by persons who operate the
business which is advertised on property contiguous with the property where the
advertised activity is located as long as the parcel of land where the sign and
business are located are owned by the same entity or person.
   (F)   No sign will be considered part of or contiguous with the premises on
which the advertised activity is conducted if its location, configuration, use
or purpose indicates an attempt to circumvent the intent of the Act. Some
examples of attempts to circumvent the intent of the Act include but are not
limited to erecting signs on easement or narrow strips of land.
   (G)   No sign may be erected or maintained which contains, includes, or is
illuminated by any flashing, intermittent or moving light or lights except
those which may be changed at reasonable intervals by electronic process or by
remote control as long as these do not interfere with the effectiveness of an
official traffic control device (§ 4.03(c) of the Act).
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.108 NON-CONFORMING BILLBOARDS ARE UNLAWFUL.
   Any billboard or signboard which is dangerous because of insecure
construction or fastening with resultant danger of falling or because of
noncompliance with this chapter, or because it is an extreme fire hazard and,
in fact, a nuisance, is declared to be a nuisance and may be abated as such.
The construction, installation, maintenance, failure to maintain or failure to
remove any sign that does not conform to this chapter is unlawful.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.109 PERMIT FEES.
   A permit fee shall be paid for each billboard or sign that is subject to
this section.
   (A)   A construction permit fee shall be paid; this shall include the annual
registration fee until the next January 1.
      (1)   For signs of less than 150 square feet: $60.
      (2)   For signs of at least 150 square feet but less than 300 square
feet: $100.
      (3)   For signs of 300 or more square feet: $200.
   (B)   An annual registration fee shall be paid on or before January 1 of
each year for the following year or any part thereof.
      (1)   For signs of less than 150 square feet: $10.
      (2)   For signs of at least 150 square feet but less than 300 square
feet: $50.
      (3)   For signs of 300 or more square feet: $400.
   (C)   In addition to any other remedy, the following amounts shall be paid
for each sign for each month, or part thereof, that the annual maintenance fee
is not timely paid.
      (1)   For signs of less than 150 square feet: $10.
      (2)   For signs of at least 150 square but less than 300 square feet:
$20.
      (3)   For signs of 300 or more square feet: $40.
   (D)   Permit fees shall not be required for the following:
      (1)   Signs less than 36 square feet that are not located off roofs or
attached to buildings; and
      (2)   Units of federal, state or local government.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 155.110 TEMPORARY SIGNS FOR COMMERCIAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Purpose. To regulate temporary signage on commercial properties within
the Village of South Roxana to protect public safety, maintain aesthetics,
reduce visual clutter, and ensure compliance with state and village laws.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL PROPERTY. Any property within the Village of South Roxana
zoned for commercial use, including retail, business, or mixed-use.
      PERMIT. Official authorization from the Village of South Roxana to
display a temporary sign on commercial property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Includes streets, sidewalks, public rights-of-way,
utility easements, parks, and any other property owned or managed by the
Village of South Roxana.
      TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign or advertisement intended for display for a
limited period, typically made of non-permanent materials such as plastic,
metal stakes, or fabric.
      VIOLATION. Any non-compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Prohibition on public property.
      (1)   Absolute prohibition. No temporary signs shall be placed on public
property, including rights-of-way, sidewalks, utility easements, parks, or any
other village-managed property.
      (2)   Immediate removal. Signs placed in prohibited locations are subject
to immediate removal by the Police Department or Code Enforcement Officer
without notice.
      (3)   Notification and disposal. Removed signs will be held by the
village for three days. If not claimed within that period, the sign will be
disposed of.
   (D)   Temporary sign regulations on commercial property.
      (1)   Permit requirement.
         (a)   A permit is required to display any temporary sign on commercial
property within the Village of South Roxana.
         (b)   Permits must be obtained from the Village Clerk's office prior
to sign placement.
      (2)   Daily fee structure.
         (a)   A fee of $50 per day per sign shall be paid at the time of
permit issuance.
         (b)   Permit fees are non-refundable and non-transferable.
      (3)   Duration of permit.
         (a)   Permits are valid for up to seven consecutive days per sign.
         (b)   Renewals must be requested and approved before the expiration of
the initial permit period.
   (E)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Fines.
         (a)   Unauthorized temporary signs or signs without a permit shall be
subject to a fine of $150 per day per violation.
         (b)   Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (2)   Progressive penalties. Repeat violations within a 12-month period
will result in double fines.
      (3)   Responsible parties.
         (a)   The advertiser or entity being promoted on the sign shall be
held strictly liable for all violations, fines, and removal fees.
         (b)   Failure to comply with payment obligations may result in legal
action and/or denial of future permits.
   (F)   Enforcement and court proceedings.
      (1)   Enforcement authority. The Police Department or Code Enforcement
Officer is authorized to enforce this ordinance by issuing citations for
violations.
      (2)   Court proceedings.
         (a)   Citations issued for violations under this section shall be
adjudicated through the Madison County Court System.
         (b)   Any party wishing to contest a citation must do so through the
court process as specified in the citation.
      (3)   No local appeals process.
         (a)   The Village Board does not have jurisdiction to hear appeals
related to citations issued under this section.
         (b)   All disputes related to citations must be resolved through the
Madison County Court system.
   (G)   Compliance with state and local laws.
      (1)   All signs must comply with applicable State of Illinois laws,
including the Illinois Highway Advertising Control Act of 1971 (ILCS Ch. 225,
Act 440), and Village of South Roxana ordinances.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall infringe upon constitutionally
protected speech, and content-based regulations are strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 25-13, passed 5-6-2025)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 155.120 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter establishes lot and structure requirements and design/
operational standards for specific, potentially troublesome, structures and
uses. These regulations apply in every zoning district where the specific
structure or use is permitted or allowed by special use permit; but if more
stringent regulations are applicable in any particular district, those
regulations shall prevail.
(1994 Code, § 40-7-1)
§ 155.121 AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Farm animals. No barn, stable, shed or other structure intended to
shelter farm animals shall be erected closer than 300 feet to any existing
dwelling or closer than 200 feet to any lot line of residential property,
whichever distance is greater. Similarly, fences shall be erected or other
means shall be taken to prevent farm animals from approaching closer than 300
feet to any existing dwelling or closer than 200 feet to any lot line or
residential property, whichever distance is greater.
   (B)   Farm equipment/commodities. No agricultural equipment or commodities
(including, but not limited to, baled crops, fertilizer, pesticides/herbicides)
shall be stored outdoors closer than 300 feet to any existing dwelling or
closer than 200 feet to any lot line of residential property, whichever
distance is greater. If the equipment/commodities are stored within a
completely enclosed structure, the structure shall be located at least 100 feet
from any lot line of residential property.
   (C)   Barbed wire/electrical fences. See §
155.122(A) below.
(1994 Code, § 40-7-2)
§ 155.122 FENCES; WALLS.
   (A)   No barbed wire or electrically-charged fence shall be erected or
maintained anywhere in the village, except in the Conservation District by
special use permit.
   (B)   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected within any public
right-of-way, except by written permission of the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected in violation of
the State Drainage Code (ILCS Ch. 70, Act 605, §§ 2-1 through 2-12, as amended
from time to time).
(1994 Code, § 40-7-3)
§ 155.123 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   A HOME OCCUPATION means any business, profession or occupation
conducted for gain or support entirely within any dwelling or on any
residential premises.
   (B)   Within the village every home occupation shall be considered a special
use.
   (C)   No home occupation shall be established or conducted except in
conformity with the following regulations.
      (1)   Floor space. The total area devoted to a home occupation shall not
exceed 25% of the gross floor area of the dwelling, or 300 square feet,
whichever is less.
      (2)   Dwelling alterations. In any residential district, a dwelling shall
not be altered to accommodate a home occupation in such a way as to materially
change the residential character of the building.
      (3)   Outdoor storage. In any residential district, unenclosed storage of
equipment of materials used in connection with a home occupation is prohibited.
      (4)   Nuisances. A home occupation shall not generate any offensive
noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare or electrical interference
noticeable at or beyond the lot lines.
(1994 Code, § 40-7-4)
§ 155.124 NURSING HOMES. 
   (A)   The lot on which any nursing home is situated shall have a minimum
width and depth of 200 feet, and a minimum area of two acres.
   (B)   The principal building of any nursing home shall be located at least
25 feet from all lot lines.
(1994 Code, § 40-7-6)
§ 155.125 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   The regulations of this section do not apply to recreational vehicles parked
in a permitted travel trailer park or on a permitted recreational vehicles
sales lot.
   (A)   Not more than two recreational vehicles shall be parked on any lot.
They shall not be parked on a street.
   (B)   No recreational vehicle shall be used as a dwelling.
   (C)   No recreational vehicle shall be used as an office or for any other
commercial purpose.
   (D)   Recreational vehicles shall be required to have setbacks as required
for accessory buildings.
(1994 Code, § 40-7-7)
§ 155.126 SERVICE STATIONS.
   All gasoline pumps and other service facilities shall be located at least 25
feet from any street right-of-way line, side lot line or rear lot line. Every
access way shall be located at least 200 feet from the principal building of
any fire station, school, public library, church, park or playground, and at
least 30 feet from any intersection of public streets.
(1994 Code, § 40-7-8)
§ 155.127 SWIMMING POOLS.
   See Building Code,
Chapter 150.
(1994 Code, § 40-7-9)
§ 155.128 UTILITY SUBSTATIONS.
   Every electrical substation, gas, regulator station, telephone exchange
facility, private sewage treatment plant, private water storage facility or
similar facility shall be deemed a special use, and shall conform to the
following regulations:
   (A)   Every lot on which any facility is situated shall meet the minimum
area and dimensions requirements of the district in which it is located. Every
part of any facility shall be located at least 25 feet from all lot lines, or
shall meet the district setback requirements, whichever is greater;
   (B)   In any residential district, every facility shall be designed,
constructed and operated so that it is compatible with the residential
character to the area; and
   (C)   Screening at least ten feet in height and of sufficient density to
block the view from adjacent property shall be installed around every facility.
Furthermore, if the Administrator determines that the facility poses a safety
hazard (for example, if there are exposed transformers), he or she shall
require that a secure fence at least ten feet in height be installed behind the
planting screen.
(1994 Code, § 40-7-10)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 155.140 PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   The requirements imposed by this chapter are designed to guide the use
of land by encouraging the development of structures and uses that are
compatible with the predominant character of each of the various districts.
Lots, structures and uses of land or structures that do not conform to the
requirements of the district in which they are located tend to impede
appropriate development.
   (B)   For example, nonconformities are frequently responsible for heavy
traffic on residential streets, the overtaxing of parking facilities, the
creation of nuisances and/or the lowering of property values.
   (C)   The regulations of this subchapter are intended to alleviate the
existing/potential problems by encouraging the gradual elimination of
nonconformities.
(1994 Code, § 40-8-1)
Editor’s note:
   Effective December 1, 2020, all existing lots, structures and uses
previously permitted in “R-4” Mobile Home District shall be allowed to continue
as nonconformities and shall be governed by the provisions addressing
nonconformities contained in this subchapter.
§ 155.141 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Does not conform. Any vacant lot that does not conform to one or more
of the lot size (area dimensions) requirements of the district in which it is
located may, nonetheless, be developed for any use permitted in that district
if the vacant lot:
      (1)   Was recorded in the County Recorder of Deeds office prior to the
effective date of this chapter (or pertinent amendment thereto); and
      (2)   Is at least 50 feet wide.
   (B)   Two or more lots in common ownership.
      (1)   If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots
with continuous frontage were of record and in common ownership on the
effective date of this chapter, and if one or more of those lots does not meet
the minimum lot width, depth or area requirements of the district in which it
is located, the land involved shall be considered an undivided parcel.
      (2)   No portion of any parcel shall be developed except in compliance
with this chapter, nor shall any parcel be divided so as to create a lot that
does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 40-8-2)
§ 155.142 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Any otherwise lawful structure which exists on the effective date of this
chapter but which could not be erected under the terms of this chapter because
of requirements/restrictions concerning lot size, height, setbacks or other
characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot may lawfully
remain, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Maintenance. A nonconforming structure may be maintained by ordinary
repairs.
   (B)   Enlargement, alterations. A nonconforming structure shall not be
enlarged or altered in any way which increases its nonconformity.
   (C)   Relocation. A nonconforming structure shall not be moved unless, after
relocation, it will conform to all the regulations of the district in which it
will be situated.
   (D)   Reconstruction. A nonconforming structure which is destroyed or
damaged by any means shall not be reconstructed if the Administrator determines
that the cost of the reconstruction exceeds 50% of the structure's market value
at the time of loss, unless after reconstruction the structure will conform to
all applicable regulations of the district in which it is located. In the event
the Administrator determines the estimated cost of reconstruction is less than
50% of the structure's market value at the time of loss, repairs or
reconstruction shall be permitted, provided the work starts within six months
from the date the damage occurred and is diligently pursued to completion.
   (E)   Other. The Administrator may require that the reconstruction cost
estimate be made by a bona fide construction contractor, and that the
structure's market value at the time of loss be determined by a licensed real
estate appraiser. The owner of the damaged structure shall be responsible for
obtaining these estimates for the Administrator.
(1994 Code, § 40-8-3)
§ 155.143 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any otherwise lawful use existing on the effective date of this chapter that
would not be permitted under the terms of this chapter may lawfully continue,
subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Extension/intensification. No nonconforming use occupying a structure
may be extended to any part(s) of the structure not intended or designed for
the use, nor shall the nonconforming use be extended to occupy any land outside
the structure. Similarly, no nonconforming use of land shall be intensified, or
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied by the use on the
effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Relocation. No nonconforming use shall be moved, in whole or in part
unless, upon relocation, it will conform to all pertinent regulations of the
district in which it will be located.
   (C)   Change of use. A nonconforming use shall not be changed except to a
use that is allowed under the applicable district regulations.
   (D)   Discontinuance. When a nonconforming use is discontinued for a period
of 90 days, it shall not thereafter be resumed, and any subsequent use of the
land shall conform to the applicable district regulations. Any discontinuance
caused by government action and without any contributing fault by the owner or
operator shall not be counted in calculating the length of discontinuance.
(1994 Code, § 40-8-4)
§ 155.144 NONCONFORMITIES UNDER PERMIT AUTHORITY.
   The regulations of this subchapter shall not affect the terms of any permit
issued prior to the effective date of this chapter or any pertinent amendment
thereto provided that the work authorized by the permit is completed within a
reasonable time.
(1994 Code, § 40-8-5)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.155 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner, referred to herein as the "Zoning
Administrator" or simply the "Administrator," is hereby authorized and directed
to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This broad responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to, the
following specific duties:
      (1)   To review and pass upon applications for initial and final
certificates of zoning compliance;
      (2)   To inspect lots, structures and uses to determine compliance with
this chapter, and where there are violations, to initiate appropriate
corrective action;
      (3)   To review and forward to the Board of Zoning Appeals all appeals
and applications for variances, special use permits and amendments;
      (4)   To maintain up-to-date records of matters related to this chapter
including, but not limited to, district maps, certificates of zoning
compliance, special use permits, variances, interpretative decisions of the
Board of Zoning Appeals, amendments and all applications/documents related to
any of these items;
      (5)   To republish the zoning district map not later than March 31 if any
rezonings have been approved during the preceding calendar year;
      (6)   To provide information to the general public on matters related to
this chapter; and
      (7)   To perform such other duties as the Board of Trustees may from time
to time prescribe.
(1994 Code, § 40-9-1)
§ 155.156 INITIAL CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Upon the effective date of this chapter, no lot shall be created, no
land shall be developed, no new use or structure shall be established or
erected, and no existing use or structure shall be enlarged, extended, altered,
relocated or reconstructed until an initial certificate of zoning compliance
has been issued.
   (B)   The Administrator shall not issue an initial certificate of zoning
compliance unless, following consultation with technically qualified persons as
necessary, he or she determines that the proposed activity conforms to the
applicable provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Application.
         (a)   Every applicant for an initial certificate of zoning compliance
shall submit to the Administrator, in graphic and/or narrative form, all the
items of information listed below that are applicable to the particular
project. The Administrator shall decide which items are applicable. (Note:
filing fee required.)
         (b)   Items of information:
            1.   Name and address of the applicant:
            2.   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed lot,
structure or use, if different from what was provided in division (B)(1)(b)1.
above;
            3.   Brief, general description/explanation of the proposal;
            4.   Location of the proposed lot, use or structure, and its
relationship to adjacent lots, uses, or structures;
            5.   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or
use;
            6.   Existing topography of the site, and proposed finished grade;
            7.   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping and erosion
control features on the site, including the parking area;
            8.   Height and setbacks of the proposed structure;
            9.   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
            10.   Location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and
access ways;
            11.   Identification and location of all existing or proposed
utilities, whether public or private; and/or
            12.   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may
require.
      (2)   Duration of certificate. Initial certificates of zoning compliance
shall be valid for one year, or until revoked for failure to abide by a
corrective action order. The Administrator may renew initial certificates of
zoning compliance for successive one-year periods upon written request,
provided the applicant is making a good faith effort to complete the authorized
work. See § 6-1-6 of Revised Code.
   (C)   Relationship to building permits. Upon the effective date of this
chapter, no building permit for the erection, enlargement, extension,
alteration or reconstruction of any structure shall be issued until the
applicant for the permit has properly obtained an initial certificate of zoning
compliance pertaining to the work.
(1994 Code, § 40-9-2)
§ 155.157 FINAL CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   No lot or part thereof recorded or developed after the effective date of
this chapter, and no structure or use, or part thereof, that has been erected,
enlarged, altered, relocated or reconstructed after the effective date of this
chapter shall be used, occupied or put into operation until a final certificate
of zoning compliance has been issued. The Administrator shall not issue a final
certificate of zoning compliance until it has been determined, by inspection,
that the work authorized by the initial certificate of zoning compliance has
been completed in accordance with approved plans. Failure to obtain a final
certificate of zoning compliance shall constitute a separate violation of this
chapter.
(1994 Code, § 40-9-3)
§ 155.158 CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDERS.
   Whenever the Zoning Administrator finds, by inspection or otherwise, that
any lot, structure or use, or work thereon, is in violation of this chapter, he
or she shall so notify the responsible party, and shall order appropriate
corrective action.
   (A)   Contents of order. The order to take corrective action shall be in
writing and shall include:
      (1)   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
      (2)   A statement indicating the nature of the violation;
      (3)   A statement of the remedial action necessary to effect compliance;
      (4)   The date by which the violation must be corrected;
      (5)   A statement that the alleged violator is entitled to a conference
with the Administrator if he or she so desires;
      (6)   The date by which an appeal of the corrective action order must be
filed, and a statement of the procedure for so filing; and
      (7)   A statement that failure to obey a corrective action order shall
result in revocation of the certificate of zoning compliance and may result in
the imposition of fines.
   (B)   Service of order. A corrective action order shall be deemed properly
served upon the owner, occupant or operator of the offending lot, structure or
use if it is:
      (1)   Served upon him or her personally;
      (2)   Sent by registered mail to his or her last known address; or
      (3)   Posted in a conspicuous place on or about the affected premises.
   (C)   Stop orders.
      (1)   Whenever any work is being done in violation of an initial
certificate of zoning compliance, the Administrator's corrective action order
may state that the violation must cease immediately. See division (A)(4) above.
      (2)   In that case, the corrective action order is equivalent to a stop
order.
(1994 Code, § 40-9-4)
§ 155.159 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever the
Administrator determines that any violation of this chapter poses an imminent
peril to life or property, he or she may institute, without notice or hearing,
any necessary proceedings to alleviate the perilous condition.
(1994 Code, § 40-9-5)
§ 155.160 COMPLAINTS.
   Whenever any violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint on forms provided by the
Administrator. The Administrator shall record the complaints, promptly
investigate, and, if necessary, institute appropriate corrective action.
(1994 Code, § 40-9-6)
§ 155.161 FILING FEES.
   The Board of Trustees shall establish (and may amend from time to time) a
schedule of filing fees for the various permits and procedures listed in this
code. The fees are intended to defray the administrative costs connected with
the processing/conducting of the permits or procedures; the fees do not
constitute a tax or other revenue-raising device. All the fees shall be paid by
the applicant to the Village Clerk. See §
155.162 below.
(1994 Code, § 40-9-7)
§ 155.162 REVIEW AND HEARING FEES.
   The filing fee for the following procedures shall be $150 per application:
Any request or application for an appeal meeting; any application or request
for a variance hearing; any application or request for an amendment hearing;
and any application or request for a special use permit hearing. All fees
provided herein shall be made payable to the village and shall be paid to the
Village Clerk along with the filing of the application or request for any like
procedure or hearing.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 5-24-1990; Ord. 10-09, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 155.163 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established in accordance with state
law.
(Ill. Rev. Stats., Ch. 24, § 11-13-3)
   (A)   Membership, appointment, compensation. The Board of Zoning Appeals
shall consist of seven members, all of whom shall reside within the village.
Each Board member shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees. One of the members so appointed shall be named as
Chairperson at the time of his or her appointment. Each Board member shall
receive compensation as established by the Village Board.
   (B)   Term of office; vacancies.
      (1)   Every member of the Zoning Board of Appeals which was established
pursuant to the former Zoning Code shall be entitled to serve on the Zoning
Board of Appeals established by this section until the date his or her term of
office would have expired if the former Zoning Code had remained in effect. Any
person appointed to the Zoning Board of Appeals on or after the effective date
of this chapter shall hold office for five years from the date of his or her
appointment, and until his or her successor has been selected and qualified.
      (2)   With the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, the Mayor may
remove any member of the Zoning Board of Appeals for cause, after a public
hearing. Vacancies on the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filled for the
unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant in the same manner
as provided for the appointment of new members.
   (C)   Meeting; quorum. All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
held at the call of the Chairperson and at such times as the Board may
determine. All Board meetings shall be open to the public. The Board may adopt
their own rules of meeting procedures consistent with this chapter and the
applicable Illinois Statutes. The Board may select such officers as it deems
necessary. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. Four members of
the Board shall constitute a quorum, and the affirmative vote of at least four
members shall be necessary to authorize any Board action.
   (D)   Records. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings and
examinations. These minutes shall indicate the absence of any member, the vote
or abstention of each member on each question, and any official action taken. A
copy of every rule, variance, order or decision of the Board shall be filed
immediately with the Village Clerk and shall be a public record.
(1994 Code, § 40-10-1)
§ 155.164 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Zoning
Administrator in any matter related to the interpretation or enforcement of any
provision of this chapter may appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Every appeal shall be made and treated in accordance with state law
and the provisions of this section.
(Ill. Rev. Stats., Ch. 24, § 11-13-12)
      (1)   Filing, record transmittal. Every appeal shall be made within 45
days of the matter complained of by filing with the Administrator and the
Zoning Board of Appeals a written notice specifying the grounds for appeal.
(Every appeal shall also be filed with the Soil and Water Conservation District
as per state law (Ill. Rev. Stats., Ch. 5, § 127.2(A)). Not more than five
working days after the notice of appeal has been filed, the Administrator shall
transmit to the Board of Appeals all records pertinent to the case. (Note:
filing fee required.)
      (2)   Stay of further proceedings. An appeal stays all further action on
the matter being appealed unless the Administrator certifies to the Board of
Zoning Appeals, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that
for reasons stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to
life or property. In that case, further action shall not be stayed unless the
Board of Zoning Appeals or the circuit court grants a restraining order for due
cause, and so notifies the Administrator.
      (3)   Public hearing, notice. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a
public hearing on every appeal no less than 15 days nor more than 30 days after
filing of appeal notice and publication. At the hearing any interested party
may appear and testify, either in person or by duly authorized agent or
attorney. Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and
briefly describing the issue to be decided shall be given not more than 30 days
nor less than 15 days before the hearing:
         (a)   By first class mail to all parties directly affected by the
appeal; and
         (b)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village.
      (4)   Decision by Board of Appeals. The Board of Appeals shall render a
decision on the appeal within a reasonable time after the hearing. The Board
may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or amend the decision or
order appealed from the extent and in the manner that they deem appropriate. In
so doing, the Board of Appeals has all the powers of the Administrator.
(1994 Code, § 40-10-2) (Ord. 91-06, passed 5-9-1991)
§ 155.165 VARIANCES.
   (A)   A variance is a relaxation of the requirements of this chapter that
are applicable to a particular lot, structure or use.
   (B)   A so-called "use variance" (which would allow a use that is neither
permitted nor special in the district in question) is not a variance, it is an
amendment, and may be granted only as provided for at §
155.167 below.
      (1)   Application.
         (a)   Every application for a variance shall be filed with the
Administrator on a prescribed form. (Every variance application shall also be
filed with the Soil and Water Conservation District as per state law (ILCS Ch.
70, Act 405, § 22.02(A)) The Administrator shall promptly transmit the
application, together with any device he or she might wish to offer, to the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (b)   The application shall contain sufficient information to allow
the Board to make an informed decision, and shall include, at a minimum, the
following (Note: filing fee required):
            1.   Name and address of the applicant;
            2.   Location of the structure/use for which the variance is
sought;
            3.   Brief description of adjacent lots, structures and/or uses:
            4.   Brief description of the problem(s)/circumstances engendering
the variance request;
            5.   Brief, but specific, statement/explanation of the desired
variance;
            6.   Specific section(s) of this chapter containing the regulations
which, if strictly applied, would cause a serious problem; and
            7.   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may
require.
      (2)   Public hearing, notice.
         (a)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a public hearing on each
variance request within a reasonable time after the variance application is
submitted to them.
         (b)   At the hearing any interested party may appear and testify
either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
         (c)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and
the nature of the proposed variance shall be given not more than 30 nor less
than 15 days before the hearing:
            1.   By first class mail to the applicant and to all parties whose
property would be directly affected by the proposed variance; and
            2.   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village.
      (3)   Standards for variances. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall not
grant any variance unless, based upon the evidence presented to it, it
determines that:
         (a)   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of
this chapter. See §
155.002 above;
         (b)   Strict application of the normally-applicable requirements would
result in great practical difficulties or hardship to the applicant, and
prevent a reasonable return on the property;
         (c)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from the
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship, and allow a
reasonable return on the property;
         (d)   The plight of the applicant is due to circumstances not of his
or her own making;
         (e)   The circumstances engendering the variance request are peculiar
and not applicable to other property within the district, and therefore, that a
variance would be a more appropriate remedy than an amendment (rezoning); and
         (f)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the area where the premises in question are located or significantly impair
implementation of the community plan.
      (4)   Terms of relief; finds of fact. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall
decide on every variance request within a reasonable time after the public
hearing. In accordance with state law (Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 11-13-11),
the Board of Zoning Appeals shall specify the terms of relief recommended (if
any) in one statement and their findings of fact in another statement. The
findings of fact shall clearly indicate the Board's reasons for the granting or
denying the requested variance.
(1994 Code, § 40-10-3)
§ 155.166 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   This chapter divides the village into various districts, and permits
in each district as a matter of right only those uses which are clearly
compatible with one another.
   (B)   Certain other uses, because of their special operational or physical
characteristics, may or may not have a detrimental impact on nearby permitted
uses, depending upon their precise location, manner of operation and other
factors.
   (C)   The "special uses" require careful case-by-case review, and may be
allowed only after review and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (1)   Application. Every applicant for a special use permit shall submit
to the Zoning Administrator in narrative and/or graphic form, the items of
information enumerated below. The Administrator shall promptly transmit the
completed application, together with any comments or recommendation he or she
might have, to the Board of Zoning Appeals. (Note: filing fee required.) Items
of information:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed
structure or use, if different from division (C)(1)(a) above:
         (c)   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner
of operation, number of occupants or employees, and similar matters;
         (d)   Location of the proposed use or structure, and its relationship
to existing uses of structures on adjacent lots;
         (e)   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or
use;
         (f)   Existing topography of the side and proposed finished grade;
         (g)   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping and erosion control
features on the site, including the parking area;
         (h)   Height and setbacks of the proposed structure;
         (i)   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
         (j)   Number and location of proposed parking/loading spaces and
access ways;
         (k)   Identification and location of all existing or proposed
utilities, whether public or private; and/or
         (l)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may
require.
      (2)   Public hearing, notice.
         (a)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a public hearing on every
special use permit application within a reasonable time after the application
is submitted to it. At the hearing any interested party may appear and testify,
either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
         (b)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and
the nature of the proposed special use shall be given not more than 30 nor less
than 15 days before the hearing:
            1.   By first class mail to the applicant and to all parties whose
property would be directly affected by the proposed special use; and
            2.   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village.
      (3)   Decision-making factors. In deciding what action to take on any
application for a special use permit, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
consider and make findings of fact regarding the following factors:
         (a)   Whether the proposed design, location and manner of operation of
the proposed special use will adequately protect the public health, safety and
welfare, and the physical environment;
         (b)   Whether the proposed special use is consistent with the village
community plan;
         (c)   The effect the proposed special use would have on the value of
property in the immediate vicinity and on the village's overall tax base;
         (d)   The effect the proposed special use would have on public
utilities and on traffic circulation on nearby streets; and
         (e)   Whether there are any facilities near the proposed special use
(such as schools, homes for the elderly) that require special protection.
      (4)   Decision; findings of facts. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall
reach a decision on every special use permit application within a reasonable
time after public hearing. In accordance with state law (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
11-13-11), the Board of Zoning Appeals shall specify the terms/conditions of
the permit to be granted (if any) in one statement and their findings of fact
in another statement. The findings of fact shall be responsive to the decision-
making factors listed in the preceding division and shall clearly indicate the
Board's reasons for granting (with or without modifications/conditions) or
denying the requested special use permit.
(1994 Code, § 40-10-4)
§ 155.167 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may amend this chapter in accordance with state
law (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-13-14) and the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Proposed alterations of district boundaries or proposed changes in the
status of uses (permitted, special, prohibited) shall be deemed proposed
amendments.
   (C)   Amendments may be proposed by the Board of Trustees, the
Administrator, the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Planning Commission, or any
party in interest.
      (1)   Filing. Every proposal to amend this chapter shall be filed with
the Administrator on a prescribed form. (Every amendment proposal shall also be
filed with the Soil and Water Conservation District (as per ILCS Ch. 70, Act
405, § 22.02a). The Administrator shall promptly transmit the proposal,
together with any comments or recommendations he or she might wish to make, to
the Planning Commission for a public hearing. (Note: filing fee required.)
      (2)   Public hearing; notice. The Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing on every amendment proposal within a reasonable time after the proposal
has been submitted to them. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and
testify, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice
indicating the time, date and place of the hearing and the nature of the
proposed amendment shall be given not more than 30 nor less than 15 days before
the hearing:
         (a)   By first class mail to all parties whose property would be
directly affected by the proposed amendment; and
         (b)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village.
      (3)   Advisory report; findings of fact. Within a reasonable time after
the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall submit their advisory report
to the Board of Trustees. The report shall state the Plan Commission's
recommendations regarding adoption of the proposed amendment, and their reasons
therefor. If the effect of the proposed amendment would be to alter district
boundaries or to change the status of any use, the Plan Commission shall
include in their advisory report findings of fact concerning each of the
following matters:
         (a)   Existing use and zoning of the property in question;
         (b)   Existing uses and zoning of other lots in the vicinity of the
property in question;
         (c)   Suitability of the property in question for uses already
permitted under existing regulations;
         (d)   Suitability of the property in question for the proposed use;
         (e)   The trend of development in the vicinity of the property in
question, including changes (if any) which may have occurred since the property
was initially zoned or last rezoned; and
         (f)   The effect the proposed rezoning would have on implementation of
the village community plan.
      (4)   Action by Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall act on
every proposed amendment at their next regularly scheduled meeting following
submission of the Plan Commission's advisory report. Without further public
hearing, the Board of Trustees may approve or disapprove any proposed amendment
or may refer it back to the Plan Commission for further consideration, by
simple majority vote of all the members then holding office. Exception: The
favorable vote of at least two-thirds of all the members of the Board of
Trustees is required to pass an amendment to this chapter when the proposed
amendment is opposed, in writing, by the owners of 20% of the frontage proposed
to be altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or
across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage directly
opposite the frontage proposed to be altered.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-13-14) (1994 Code, § 40-10-5)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500, plus costs. Each day that a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the village from
taking any other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with
this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 40-9-8)
APPENDIX A: SUMMARY TABLE; LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICT
             C        R-       R-       R-       B-       B-
Restrictions District 1        2        3        1        2 District I District
                      District District District District
                                                     C        R-       R-       R-       B-       B-       I
Restrictions                                         District 1        2        3        1        2        District
                                                              District District District District District
                                                                                9,600
                                                              5,500    8,400    sq. ft.
(a)   Minimum lot area:                           3 acres  sq. ft.  sq. ft.  or 2,000 None     20,000   20,000
                                                                                sq. ft./
                                                                                unit
(b)   Minimum lot width (at established building                             80 ft.
line):                                               250 ft.  50 ft.   70 ft.   or 20    50 ft.   125 ft.  125 ft.
                                                                                ft./unit
(c)   Minimum lot depth:                          250 ft.  110 ft.  120 ft.  120 ft.  None     150 ft.  150 ft.
(d)   Minimum setbacks:                                                                            
   1.   From front lot line:                   50 ft.   25 ft.   25 ft.   25 ft.   None     50 ft.   25 ft.
   2.   Side yards:                                                                             
      Minimum total setback from both side lot 25 ft.   15 ft.   15 ft.   15 ft.   None     50 ft.   50 ft.
lines:
      Minimum setback from either side lot line7.5 ft.  7.5 ft.  7.5 ft.  7.5 ft.  None     20 ft.   25 ft.
   3.   From rear lot line:                    50 ft.   25 ft.   25 ft.   25 ft.   None     25 ft.   25 ft.
(e)   Maximum structure height:                   35 ft.   35 ft.   35 ft.   35 ft.   45 ft.   35 ft.   60 ft.
 
APPENDIX B: FIGURES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68806131752966c40f9fd5d13dcb5c283a29577e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1979.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68806131752966c40f9fd5d13dcb5c283a29577e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1982.jpg]
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_figures_in_a_PDF_document.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[RESERVED]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Illinois Revised Statutes
References to 1994 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Reference Code Section
ILCS Reference                 Code Section
5, Act 20, §§ 1 et seq.      150.23
5, Act 70, § 1.01             10.04
5, Act 70, § 1.02             10.04
5, Act 70, § 1.03             10.04
5, Act 70, § 1.04             10.04
5, Act 70, § 1.05             10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.07             10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.08             10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.09             10.04
5, Act 70, § 1.10             10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.11             10.04
5, Act 70, § 1.12             10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.15             10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.16             10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.17             10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.20             10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.24             10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.28             10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.29             10.02
5, Act 70, § 2                10.04
5, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.     150.23
5, Act 120, §§ 1.01 et seq.  30.46
5, Act 120, § 1.02            30.47
5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.     30.01;
                               30.46
5, Act 430                     31.081
5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq.   30.03
5, Act 430, § 5-15            30.03
5, Act 430, §§ 10-10–10-40 30.03
5, Act 430, § 50-5            30.03
5, Act 430, § 70-5            30.03 ;
                               30.25
5, Act 430, § 70-5(a)         30.03
5, Act 430, § 70-5(c)         30.03
                               151.02;
20, Act 655, §§ 1 et seq.    151.07;
                               151.09
20, Act 655, § 10             151.07
                               34.65;
20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et seq.   34.67;
                               34.73;
                               34.75
20, Act 3855, §§ 1 et seq.   50.30
30, Act 405, §§ 1 et seq.   53.001
35, Act 105, §§ 1 et seq.   110.001
35, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq.   110.001
35, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.   110.001;
                               151.05
50, Act 105                    30.12
50, Act 205, §§ 1 et seq.    34.34
65, Act 5                      10.02
65, Act 5, §§ 1-1–11.1-1   91.99
65, Act 5, § 1-1-2            10.02
65, Act 5, § 1-1-2(5)         31.029
65, Act 5, § 1-2-1            10.99;
                               152.01
65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1          10.99
65, Act 5, § 1-2-12.1         34.35
65, Act 5, § 3-2-6            31.079
65, Act 5, § 3-9-3            31.071
65, Act 5, § 3-10-7           31.066
65, Act 5, § 3-10-8           31.067
65, Act 5, § 3-11-2           31.050
65, Act 5, § 3-11-23          31.072
65, Act 5, §§ 3.1 et seq.    30.13
65, Act 5, 3.1-15-10           30.13
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-35        31.054
65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-30        31.054
65, Act 5, § 3.1-50-15(B)     31.029
65, Act 5, § 8-11-23          36.01
65, Act 5, § 11-1-1–11-1-7  34.33
65, Act 5, § 11-5-2           110.040
65, Act 5, §§ 11-12-4–11-1233.01
65, Act 5, § 11-12            33.09
65, Act 5, §§ 11-12-8–11-12154.003
65, Act 5, § 11-12-9          154.002
65, Act 5, § 11-12-12         33.06;
                               152.01
65, Act 5, § 11-13-11         155.166
65, Act 5, § 11-13-14         155.167
65, Act 5, § 11-20-6          93.27
65, Act 5, § 11-20-7          93.25;
                               93.27
65, Act 5, § 11-20-13         93.46
65, Act 5, § 11-20-15         93.24;
                               93.25
65, Act 5, § 11-30-2          152.01
65, Act 5, § 11-30-4          95.999
65, Act 5, § 11-30-8          152.01
65, Act 5, § 11-31-2          152.01
65, Act 5, § 11-40-1          95.999
65, Act 5, § 11-40-3          72.13;
                               93.65
65, Act 5, § 11-40-3.1        93.60
65, Act 5, §§ 11-80-1–11-8095.095
65, Act 5, § 11-80-2          95.999
65, Act 5, § 11-80-13         95.110;
                               95.111
65, Act 5, § 11-80-17         95.020
65, Act 5, § 11-139-8         50.15;
                               50.17
65, Act 20, §§ 0.01 et seq.  52.23
70, Act 405, § 22.02a         155.167
70, Act 405, § 22.021A        155.165
70, Act 605, §§ 2-1–2-12   155.122
210, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq.   153.21;
                               153.35
210, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.   153.02
220, Act 5, § 16-102          97.03
220, Act 5, § 16-105          97.03
220, Act 5, § 16-108.5(i)     97.03
225, Act 225, §§ 1 et seq.   53.038
225, Act 225, §§ 1–22      155.030
225, Act 440                   155.085;
                               155.110
225, Act 440, §§ 1 et seq.   155.085
225, Act 440, § 1             155.100
225, Act 440, § 4.01          155.104
225, Act 440, § 4.02          155.104
225, Act 440, § 4.02(g)       155.104
225, Act 440, § 4.03          155.104
225, Act 440, § 4.03(a)       155.107
225, Act 440, § 4.03(b)       155.107
225, Act 440, § 4.03(c)       155.107
225, Act 440, § 4.06          155.104
225, Act 440, § 4.08          155.104
225, Act 440, § 5             155.104
225, Act 440, § 6.02(a)       155.104
225, Act 440, § 6.02(b)       155.104
225, Act 440, § 6.03(a)       155.104
225, Act 440, § 15.24114(g)   155.104
235, Act 5                     111.01
235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.   111.99
235, Act 5, §§ 1-3.01 et seq.111.01
235, Act 5, § 4-2             31.052
235, Act 5, § 6-11            111.27
235, Act 5, § 6-20            111.47;
                               111.48
410, Act 82, §§ 1 et seq.    130.118
410, Act 130, §§ 1 et seq.   36.01 ;  
                               130.118
410, Act 650, §§ 1 et seq.   111.37
410, Act 650, § 10            111.39
410, Act 705, §§ 1-1 et seq. 130.118
410, Act 705, § 10-5(b)       130.118
505, Act 89, §§ 1 et seq.    130.118
625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq. 71.001
625, Act 5, § 1-100           71.001
625, Act 5, § 1-101           155.085;
                               155.104
625, Act 5, § 1-123.9         71.080
625, Act 5, § 1-188           10.02
625, Act 5, § 3-100           72.10
625, Act 5, §§ 4-201 et seq. 72.13
625, Act 5, § 4-201           72.01;
                               72.02
625, Act 5, § 6-303           73.02
625, Act 5, § 11-6            73.02
625, Act 5, § 11-100          71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-202          71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-204          71.035,
                               73.02
625, Act 5, § 11-207          71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-208          71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-208.1        71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-208.2        71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-209          71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-209.1        71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-211          71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-302          71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-303          71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-310(f)       71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-313          71.035
625, Act 5, §§ 11-401–11-4171.035
625, Act 5, §§ 11-500–11-5071.081
625, Act 5, § 11-500(i)       71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-501          73.02;
                               130.118
625, Act 5, § 11-501(c)       71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-501.1        71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-502          71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-502.1        130.118
625, Act 5, § 11-503          71.035,
                               73.02
                               71.035;
625, Act 5, § 11-504          71.036,
                               73.02
625, Act 5, § 11-601.5        73.02
625, Act 5, § 11-602          71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-603          71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-604          71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-606(b)       71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-608          71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-904(a)       71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-1204(a)      71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-1416(a)      71.035
625, Act 5, § 11-1422         71.035
625, Act 5, § 12-100          71.050
625, Act 5, § 12-205          71.050
625, Act 5, § 12-603.1        71.081
625, Act 5, § 12-605          71.050
625, Act 5, § 12-605.1        71.050
625, Act 5, § 12-709          71.081
625, Act 5, § 18c-7201        97.03
625, Act 40, § 5-7            130.118
625, Act 45, § 5-16           130.118
705, Act 405, §§ 1-1 et seq. 130.170
720, Act 5, § 12-4            73.02
720, Act 5, § 12-4.2          73.02
720, Act 5, § 12-4.3          73.02
720, Act 5, § 12-4.6          73.02
720, Act 5, § 16A-3           73.02
720, Act 5, § 18-1            73.02
720, Act 5, § 18-2            73.02
720, Act 5, § 19-1            73.02
720, Act 5, § 19-3            73.02
720, Act 5, § 20-1.1          73.02
720, Act 5, § 20-2            73.02
720, Act 5, § 21-1            73.02
720, Act 5, § 24-1            73.02
720, Act 5, § 24-3.1          73.02
720, Act 5, § 24-3.3          73.02
720, Act 5, § 25-1            73.02
720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.   130.043,
                               130.118
720, Act 550, § 4             73.02
720, Act 550, § 4(a)          130.118
720, Act 550, § 5             73.02
720, Act 550, § 5.1           73.02
720, Act 550, § 5.2           73.02
720, Act 550, § 8             73.02
720, Act 555, §§ 1 et seq.   130.043
720, Act 570, Art. I et seq.   130.043,
                               130.119
720, Act 570, § 401           73.02
720, Act 570, § 401.1         73.02
720, Act 570, § 402           73.02
720, Act 600, §§ 1 et seq.   130.119
720, Act 635, §§ 0.01 et seq.130.043,
                               130.119
720, Act 646, §§ 1 et seq.   130.043,
                               130.119
720, Act 646, § 10            130.043,
                               130.119
735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq. 73.04
745, Act 10, § 1-101          154.010;
                               155.005
750, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.    130.040
750, Act 130, §§ 1 et seq.   130.040
765, Act 205, §§ 1 et seq.   154.003;
                               154.004
765, Act 205, § 2             152.08
765, Act 205, § 6             154.101
765, Act 205, § 7             154.101
765, Act 205, § 8             154.101
820, Act 25                    155.104
                               
 
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS REVISED STATUTES
Ill. Rev. Stats. Reference Code Section
Ill. Rev. Stats. Reference Code Section
5, § 127.2(A)             155.164
13                         152.11
23, § 2371                130.040
24, § 2-2-12              31.021
24, § 3-4-3               31.023
24, § 3-4-6               31.041
24, § 3-4-15              31.023
24, § 3-5-1               31.040
24, § 3-7-2               31.043
24, § 3-9-4               31.023
24, § 3-10-7              31.021
24, § 3-11-1              31.044
24, § 3-11-3              31.042
24, § 3-11-6              31.042;
                           31.049
24, § 3-11-4              31.049
24, § 3-11-18             31.020
24, § 3-12-2              31.044
24, §§ 3-13-1 et seq.    31.028
24, § 3-13-10             31.043
24, § 3-14-1              31.024
24, § 3-14-2              31.023;
                           31.043
24, § 3-14-3              31.023;
                           31.025
24, §§ 3-21 et seq.      31.021
24, § 8-1-8               31.076
24, § 8-9-1               31.027
24, § 8-9-2               31.027
24, § 11-1-5              130.040
24, § 11-5-3              130.111
24, § 11-8-4              130.034
24, §§ 11-13-1 et seq.   155.002
24, § 11-13-3             155.163
24, § 11-13-11            155.165
24, § 11-13-12            155.164
24, § 11-13-19            155.021
38                         130.002
38, §§ 2-1–2-11        130.001
38, §§ 2-13–2-16       130.001
38, § 2-19                130.001
38, § 2-20                130.001
38, § 12-1                130.070
38, § 12-3                130.072
38, § 16-1                130.085
38, § 16-3                130.086
38, § 21-1                130.088
38, § 21-1.1              130.089
38, § 21-3                130.090
38, § 24-3.1              130.107
38, § 24-4                130.108
38, § 24-5                130.109
38, § 25-1                130.110
38, § 26-1                130.111
38, § 28-1                112.04;
                           130.112
38, § 28-1(a)(3)–(a)(10)112.04
38, § 28-2(b)             112.01
38, § 28-3                112.04
38, § 31-1                130.113
38, § 31-8                130.114
103                        31.025
43, § 112                 111.99
43, § 134A                111.51
46                         31.021
95-1/2, Ch. 18             155.007
102, § 2                  31.023
121-1/2, § 137.8          130.112
129, § 268                130.018
                           
 
REFERENCES TO 1994 CODE
1994 Code 2009 Code
1994 Code       2009 Code
1-1-5           10.18
1-1-14          10.02
1-2-15          31.020
1-2-18          31.021
1-2-19          31.022
1-2-20          31.023
1-2-21          31.024
1-2-22          31.025
1-2-23          31.026
1-2-24          31.027
1-2-25          31.028
1-2-26          31.029
1-2-27          31.029
1-2-28          31.029
1-2-29          31.029
1-2-30          31.029
1-2-31          31.029
1-2-32          31.029
1-2-33          31.029
1-2-35          31.040
1-2-36          31.041
1-2-37          31.042
1-2-38          31.043
1-2-39          31.044
1-2-40          31.045
1-2-41          31.046
1-2-42          31.047
1-2-43          31.048
1-2-44          31.049
1-2-45          31.050
1-2-46          31.051
1-2-47          31.052
1-2-48          31.053
1-2-49          31.054
1-2-53          31.066
1-2-54          31.067
1-2-55          31.068
1-2-56          31.069
1-2-57          31.070
1-2-58          31.071
1-2-59          31.072
1-2-60          31.073
1-2-61          31.074
1-2-62          31.075
1-2-63          31.076
1-2-64          31.077
1-2-65          31.078
1-2-66          31.079
1-2-67          31.080
1-2-92          31.095
1-2-93          31.096
1-4-1           30.01
3-1-1           90.01
3-1-2           90.02
3-1-3           90.03
3-1-4           90.04
3-1-5           90.05
3-1-6           90.06
3-1-7           90.07
3-1-8           90.08
3-1-9           90.09
3-1-10          90.10
3-1-11          90.11
3-1-12          90.12
3-1-13          90.13
3-1-14          90.14
3-1-15          90.15
3-1-16          90.16
3-2-1           90.30
3-2-2           90.31
3-2-3           90.32
3-2-4           90.33
3-2-5           90.34
3-2-6           90.35
3-2-7           90.36
3-2-8           90.37
3-2-9           90.38
3-3-1           90.50
3-3-2           90.51
3-3-3           90.52
4-1-1           32.01
4-1-2           32.02
4-1-3           32.03
5-1-1           33.01
5-1-2           33.02
5-1-3           33.03
5-1-4           33.04
5-1-5           33.05
5-1-6           33.06
5-1-7           33.07
5-1-8           33.08
5-1-9           33.09
6-1-1           150.01
6-1-2           150.02
6-1-3           150.03
6-1-4           150.04
6-1-5           150.05
6-1-7           150.07
6-1-8           150.08
6-2-1           150.20
6-2-2           150.20
6-2-3           150.20
6-2-4           150.20
6-2-5           150.20
6-2-19          150.21
6-2-20          150.21
6-2-22          150.22
6-2-23          150.22
6-2-24          150.22
6-2-25          150.22
6-2-26          150.22
6-2-30          150.23
6-2-31          150.23
6-2-32          150.23
6-2-33          150.23
6-2-34          150.23
6-2-35          150.23
6-2-37          150.24
6-2-38          150.24
6-2-39          150.24
6-2-40          150.24
6-2-41          150.24
6-2-42          150.24
6-2-43          150.24
6-2-45          150.25
6-2-46          150.25
6-2-47          150.25
6-2-48          150.25
6-2-51          150.26
6-2-53          150.27
6-2-54          150.27
6-2-55          150.27
6-2-56          150.27
6-2-57          150.27
6-2-59          150.28
6-2-60          150.28
6-2-61          150.28
6-2-62          150.28
6-2-63          150.28
6-2-66          150.29
6-2-67          150.29
6-2-68          150.29
6-2-70          150.30
6-2-71          150.30
6-2-72          150.30
6-2-73          150.30
6-2-74          150.30
6-2-76          150.31
6-2-77          150.31
6-3-1           150.45
6-3-2           150.46
6-3-3           150.47
7-1-1           110.001
7-1-2           110.002
7-1-3           110.003
7-1-4           110.004
7-1-5           110.005
7-1-6           110.006
7-1-7           110.007
7-1-8           110.008
7-1-9           110.009
7-1-10          110.010
7-1-11          110.011
7-1-12          110.012
7-1-13          110.013
7-1-14          110.014
7-1-15          110.015
7-1-16          110.016
7-2-1           110.030
7-2-2           110.031
7-2-3           110.032
7-2-4           110.033
7-2-5           110.034
7-2-6           110.035
7-2-7           110.036
7-2-8           110.037
7-2-9           110.038
7-2-10          110.039
7-2-11          110.040
7-3-1           110.055
7-3-2           110.056
7-3-3           110.057
7-3-4           110.058
7-3-5           110.059
7-3-6           110.060
7-3-7           110.061
7-3-8           110.062
7-3-9           110.063
7-3-10          110.064
7-3-11          110.065
7-3-12          110.066
7-5-1           110.080
7-5-2           110.081
7-5-3           110.082
7-5-4           110.083
7-5-5           110.084
7-5-6           110.085
7-5-7           110.086
7-6-1           110.100
7-6-2           110.101
7-6-3           110.102
7-6-4           110.103
7-6-5           110.104
7-6-6           110.105
7-6-7           110.106
7-6-8           110.107
7-6-9           110.108
7-8-1           110.135
10-1-1          151.01
10-1-2          151.02
10-1-3          151.03
10-1-4          151.04
10-1-5          151.05
10-1-6          151.06
10-1-7          151.07
10-1-8          151.08
10-1-9          151.09
10-1-10         151.10
10-1-11         151.11
10-2-1          151.25
10-2-2          151.26
10-2-3          151.27
10-2-4          151.28
10-2-5          151.29
10-2-6          151.30
11-1-1          91.01
11-1-2          91.02
11-1-3          91.03
11-1-4          91.04
11-1-5          91.05
11-1-6          91.06
11-1-7          91.99
13-1-1          152.01
13-1-2          152.02
13-1-3          152.03
13-1-4          152.04
13-1-5          152.05
13-1-6          152.06
13-1-7          152.07
13-1-8          152.08
13-1-9          152.09
13-1-10         152.10
13-1-11         152.99
13-1-12         152.11
15-1-1          92.01
15-1-2          92.02
15-1-3          92.03
15-1-4          92.04
15-1-5          92.05
15-1-6          92.06
15-1-7          92.07
15-1-8          92.08
15-1-9          92.09
15-1-10         92.10
15-1-11         92.99
15-1-12         92.11
21-1-1          111.01
21-2-1          111.02
21-2-2          111.03
21-2-3          111.04
21-2-4          111.05
21-2-5          111.06
21-2-6          111.07
21-2-7          111.08
21-2-8          111.09
21-2-9          111.10
21-2-11         111.11
21-2-12         111.12
21-3-1          111.25
21-3-2          111.26
21-3-3          111.27
21-3-4          111.28
21-3-5          111.29
21-3-6          111.30
21-3-7          111.31
21-3-8          111.32
21-3-9          111.33
21-3-10         111.34
21-3-11         111.35
21-3-12         111.36
21-3-13         111.37
21-3-14         111.38
21-3-15         111.39
21-3-16         111.40
21-3-17         111.41
21-3-19         111.43
21-3-20         111.44
21-3-21         111.45
21-3-22         111.46
21-3-23         111.47
21-3-24         111.48
21-3-25         111.49
21-3-26         111.50
21-3-27         111.51
21-3-28         111.52
21-4-8          111.99
23-1-1          153.01
23-1-2          153.02
23-1-3          153.03
23-2-1          153.15
23-2-2          153.16
23-2-3          153.17
23-2-4          153.18
23-2-5          153.19
23-2-7          153.21
23-2-8          153.22
23-3-1          153.35
23-3-2          153.36
23-3-3          153.37
23-3-4          153.38
23-3-5          153.39
23-3-6          153.40
23-3-10         153.41
23-3-11         153.42
23-3-12         153.43
23-3-13         153.44
23-3-16         153.45
23-3-17         153.46
23-3-20         153.47
24-1-1          71.001
24-2-1          71.002
24-2-2          71.003
24-2-3          71.004
24-2-4          71.005
24-2-5          71.006
24-2-6          71.007
24-2-7          71.008
24-2-8          71.009
24-3-1          71.020
24-3-2          71.021
24-3-3          71.022
24-3-4          71.023
24-3-5          71.024
24-4-1          71.035
24-4-2          71.036
24-4-3          71.037
24-5-1          71.050
24-5-2          71.051
24-5-3          71.052
24-5-4          71.053
24-5-5          71.054
24-5-6          71.055
24-5-7          71.056
24-6-1          71.070
24-6-2          71.071
24-6-4          71.073
24-6-5          71.074
24-6-6          71.075
24-6-7          71.999
24-6-8          71.076
24-7-1          72.01
24-7-2          72.02
24-7-3          72.03
24-7-4          72.04
24-7-5          72.05
24-7-6          72.06
24-7-7          72.07
24-7-8          72.08
24-7-9          72.09
24-7-10         72.10
24-7-11         72.11
24-7-12         72.12
24-7-13         72.13
25-1-1          93.01
25-1-2          93.02
25-1-3          93.03
25-1-4          93.04
25-1-5          93.05
25-2-1          93.20
25-2-2          93.21
25-2-3          93.22
25-2-4          93.23
25-2-5          93.24
25-2-6          93.25
25-2-7          93.26
25-2-8          93.27
25-3-1          93.40
25-3-2          93.41
25-3-3          93.42
25-3-4          93.43
25-3-5          93.44
25-3-6          93.45
25-3-7          93.46
25-4-1          93.60
25-4-2          93.61
25-4-3          93.62
25-4-4          93.63
25-4-5          93.64
25-4-6          93.99
25-4-7          93.65
27-1-1          130.001
27-1-2          130.002
27-2-2          130.016
27-2-3          130.017
27-2-4          130.018
27-2-5          130.019
27-2-6          130.020
27-2-7          130.021
27-2-8          130.022
27-2-9          130.023
27-2-10         130.024
27-2-11         130.025
27-2-12         130.026
27-2-13         130.027
27-2-14         130.028
27-2-15         130.029
27-2-16         130.030
27-2-19         130.032
27-2-20         130.033
27-2-21         130.034
27-2-22         130.035
27-2-23         130.036
27-2-24         130.037
27-2-25         130.038
27-2-26         130.039
27-2-28         130.041
27-2-29         130.042
27-3-1          130.055
27-3-2          130.056
27-3-3          130.057
27-3-4          130.058
27-3-5          130.059
27-4-1          130.070
27-4-2          130.071
27-4-3          130.072
27-4-4          130.073
27-4-5          130.074
27-5-1          130.085
27-5-2          130.086
27-5-3          130.087
27-5-4          130.088
27-5-5          130.089
27-5-6          130.090
27-5-7          130.091
27-5-8          130.092
27-6-2          130.106
27-6-3          130.107
27-6-4          130.108
27-6-5          130.109
27-6-6          130.110
27-6-7          130.111
27-6-8          130.112
27-6-9          130.113
27-6-10         130.114
27-6-11         130.115
27-6-12         130.116
27-7-1          130.130
27-7-2          130.131
27-7-3          130.132
27-7-4          130.133
27-7-5          130.134
27-7-6          130.135
27-7-7          130.136
27-7-8          130.137
27-7-9          130.138
27-7-10         130.139
27-7-11         130.140
27-7-12         130.141
27-7-13         130.142
27-7-14         130.143
27-7-15         130.144
27-8-1          130.155
27-8-2          130.156
27-9-1          130.170
27-9-2          130.171
27-10-1         130.185
27-10-2         130.186
27-10-3         130.187;
                130.999
28-1-1          94.01
28-1-2          94.02
28-1-3          94.03
28-1-4          94.04
28-1-5          94.05
28-1-6          94.06
28-1-7          94.07
28-1-8          94.08
28-1-9          94.09
28-1-10         94.10
28-1-11         94.11
28-1-12         94.12
28-1-13         94.13
28-1-14         94.14
29-1-1 –29-20-30.04
30-1-1          34.01
30-1-2          34.02
30-1-3          34.03
30-1-4          34.04
30-1-5          34.05
30-1-6          34.06
30-2-1          34.20
30-2-2          34.21
30-2-3          34.22
30-2-4          34.23
30-2-5          34.23
30-2-6          34.23
30-2-7          34.23
30-2-8          34.24
30-2-9          34.25
30-2-10         34.26
30-2-11         34.27
30-2-12         34.28
30-2-13         34.29
30-2-14         34.30
30-2-15         34.31
30-2-16         34.32
30-2-17         34.33
30-3-1          34.45
30-3-2          34.46
30-3-3          34.47
30-3-4          34.48
30-3-5          34.49
30-3-6          34.50
30-3-7          34.51
30-3-8          34.52
30-3-9          34.53
30-3-10         34.54
30-4-1          34.65
30-4-2          34.66
30-4-3          34.67
30-4-4          34.68
30-4-5          34.69
30-4-6          34.70
30-4-7          34.71
30-4-8          34.72
30-4-9          34.73
30-4-10         34.74
30-4-11         34.75
30-4-12         34.75
31-1-1          112.01
31-1-2          112.02
31-1-3          112.03
31-1-4          112.04
31-1-5          112.05
31-1-6          112.06
31-1-7          112.07
31-1-8          112.08
33-1-1          95.001
33-1-2          95.002
33-2-1          95.015
33-2-2          95.016
33-2-3          95.017
33-2-4          95.018
33-2-5          95.019
33-2-6          95.020
33-2-7          95.021
33-2-8          95.022
33-2-9          95.023
33-2-10         95.024
33-2-11         95.025
33-2-12         95.026
33-2-13         95.027
33-2-14         95.028
33-2-15         95.029
33-2-16         95.030
33-2-17         95.031
33-2-18         95.032
33-3-1          95.045
33-3-2          95.046
33-3-3          95.047
33-3-4          95.048
33-3-5          95.049
33-3-6          95.050
33-3-7          95.051
33-3-8          95.052
33-4-1          95.065
33-4-2          95.066
33-4-3          95.067
33-4-4          95.068
33-4-5          95.069
33-4-6          95.070
33-4-7          95.071
33-4-8          95.072
33-4-9          95.073
33-4-10         95.074
33-4-11         95.075
33-4-12         95.076
33-4-13         95.077
33-4-14         95.078
33-4-15         95.079
33-4-16         95.080
33-4-17         95.081
33-4-18         95.082
33-4-19         95.083
33-4-20         95.084
33-4-21         95.085
33-4-22         95.086
33-4-23         95.087
34-4-24         95.088
33-4-25         95.089
33-4-26         95.090
33-4-27         95.091
33-4-28         95.092
33-4-29         95.093
33-4-30         95.094
33-4-31         95.095
33-5-1          95.110
33-5-2          95.111
33-5-3          95.112
33-6-1          95.125
33-6-2          95.126
33-6-3          95.127
33-6-4          95.128
33-7-1          95.140
33-7-2          95.141
33-7-3          95.142
33-7-4          95.143
33-7-5          95.144
33-7-6          95.145
33-8-1          95.160
33-8-2          95.161
33-8-3          95.162
33-8-4          95.163
33-9-1          95.175
33-9-2          95.176
33-9-3          95.177
33-9-4          95.178
33-9-5          95.179
33-9-6          95.180
33-9-7          95.181
33-9-8          95.182
33-9-9          95.183
33-9-10         95.184
33-9-11         95.185
33-9-12         95.186
33-9-13         95.187
33-9-14         95.188
33-9-15         95.189
33-9-16         95.190
33-9-17         95.191
33-9-18         95.192
33-9-19         95.193
33-9-20         95.194
33-9-21         95.195
33-9-22         95.196
33-9-23         95.999
34-1-1          154.001
34-1-2          154.002
34-1-3          154.003
34-1-4          154.004
34-1-5          154.005
34-1-6          154.006
34-1-7          154.007
34-1-8          154.008
34-1-9          154.009
34-1-10         154.010
34-2-1          154.025
34-2-2          154.026
34-2-3          154.027
34-2-4          154.028
34-2-6          154.029
34-2-9          154.030
34-2-10         154.031
34-2-11         154.032
34-2-12         154.033
34-2-13         154.034
34-2-14         154.035
34-2-15         154.036
34-2-16         154.037
34-2-17         154.038
34-2-20         154.039
34-2-21         154.039
34-2-22         154.039
34-2-23         154.039
34-3-1          154.050
34-3-4          154.051
34-3-5          154.052
34-3-6          154.053
34-3-7          154.054
34-3-8          154.055
34-3-9          154.056
34-3-10         154.057
34-3-11         154.058
34-3-12         154.059
34-3-13         154.060
34-3-16         154.061
34-3-17         154.062
34-3-18         154.063
34-3-19         154.064
34-4-1          154.075
34-4-3          154.076
34-4-4          154.077
34-4-6          154.078
34-4-9          154.079
34-4-10         154.080
34-4-11         154.081
34-4-12         154.082
34-4-24         95.088
34-5-1          154.095
34-5-2          154.096
34-5-3          154.097
34-5-4          154.098
34-5-5          154.099
34-5-6          154.100
34-5-7          154.101
34-5-8          154.102
34-6-1          154.115
34-6-2          154.116
34-6-3          154.117
34-6-4          154.118
34-6-5          154.119
36              35.01
38-1-1          50.01
38-1-2          50.02
38-1-3          50.03
38-1-4          50.04
38-2-1          50.15
38-2-2          50.16
38-2-3          50.17
38-2-4          50.18
38-2-5          50.19
38-2-6          50.20
38-3-1          51.01
38-3-2          51.02
38-3-3          51.03
38-3-4          51.04
38-3-5          51.05
38-3-6          51.06
38-3-8          51.07
38-3-9          51.08
38-3-10         51.09
38-3-11         51.10
38-3-12         51.11
38-3-13         51.12
38-3-14         51.13
38-3-15         51.14
38-3-18         51.25
38-3-19         51.26
38-3-20         51.27
38-3-21         51.28
38-3-22         51.29
38-3-23         51.30
38-3-24         51.31
38-4-1          52.01
38-4-2          52.02
38-4-3          52.03
38-4-4          52.04
38-4-5          52.05
38-4-10         52.20
38-4-11         52.21
38-4-12         52.22
38-4-13         52.23
38-4-14         52.24
38-4-15         52.25
38-5-1          53.001
38-5-2          53.001
38-5-3          53.001
38-5-4          53.001
38-5-5          53.001
38-5-6          53.001
38-5-7          53.001
38-5-8          53.001
38-5-9          53.001
38-5-11         53.020
38-5-12         53.021
38-5-13         53.022
38-5-14         53.023
38-5-16         53.035
38-5-17         53.036
38-5-18         53.037
38-5-19         53.038
38-5-20         53.039
38-5-21         53.040
38-5-22         53.041
38-5-24         53.055
38-5-25         53.056
38-5-26         53.057
38-5-27         53.058
38-5-28         53.059
38-5-29         53.060
38-5-30         53.061
38-5-31         53.062
38-5-32         53.063
38-5-33         53.064
38-5-34         53.065
38-5-35         53.066
38-5-36         53.067
38-5-37         53.068
38-5-38         53.080
38-5-39         53.081
38-5-40         53.082
38-5-41         53.083
38-5-42         53.084
38-5-43         53.085
38-5-44         53.086
38-5-45         53.087
38-5-46         53.088
38-5-47         53.089
38-5-48         53.090
38-5-50         53.105
38-5-52         53.115
38-5-53         53.116
38-5-54         53.117
38-5-56         53.999
38-5-57         53.999
38-5-58         53.999
38-6-1          54.01
38-6-2          54.02
38-6-3          54.03
38-6-4          54.04
38-6-5          54.05
39-1-3          70.03
39-1-5          70.05
39-1-7          70.07
39-1-8          70.99
40-1-1          155.001
40-1-2          155.002
40-1-3          155.003
40-1-4          155.004
40-1-5          155.005
40-2-1          155.006
40-2-2          155.007
40-3-1          155.020
40-3-2          155.021
40-3-3          155.022
40-3-4          155.023
40-3-5          155.024
40-3-6          155.025
40-3-7          155.026
40-3-8          155.027
40-3-9          155.028
40-3-10         155.029
40-3-11         155.030
40-3-12         155.031
40-4-1          155.045
40-4-2          155.046
40-4-3          155.047;
                155.048
40-4-6          155.050
40-4-7          155.051
40-4-8          155.052
40-4-9          155.053
40-5-1          155.065
40-5-2          155.066
40-5-3          155.067
40-5-4          155.068
40-5-5          155.069
40-5-6(a)       155.070
40-5-6(b)       155.071
40-7-1          155.120
40-7-2          155.121
40-7-3          155.122
40-7-4          155.123
40-7-6          155.124
40-7-7          155.125
40-7-8          155.126
40-7-9          155.127
40-7-10         155.128
40-8-1          155.140
40-8-2          155.141
40-8-3          155.142
40-8-4          155.143
40-8-5          155.144
40-9-1          155.155
40-9-2          155.156
40-9-3          155.157
40-9-4          155.158
40-9-5          155.159
40-9-6          155.160
40-9-7          155.161
40-9-8          155.999
40-10-1         155.163
40-10-2         155.164
40-10-3         155.165
40-10-4         155.166
40-10-5         155.167
                
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
84-08      7-3-1984    30.01
86-5       3-13-1986   151.11
86-7       3-27-1986   153.21;
                       153.22
86-10      4-24-1986   30.04
87-8       6-11-1987   32.03
                       151.01 
87-9       6-11-1987   151.11;
                       151.25 
                       151.30
88-13      7-28-1988   150.07
88-14      8-11-1988   52.22
88-15      8-11-1988   150.08
88-18      9-8-1988    51.25;
                       51.31
89-3       5-11-1989   51.02
89-8       11-9-1989   52.22
89-13      12-14-1989  52.05
89-14      12-14-1989  30.04
89-15      12-14-1989  30.04
90-09      5-24-1990   155.162
90-10      5-24-1990   92.10
91-01      2-14-1991   92.09
91-02      2-14-1991   92.09
91-03      3-4-1991    91.99
91-03      3-14-1991   92.09
91-06      5-9-1991    155.164
91-10      7-11-1991   155.021
93-07      3-25-1993   152.11
93-12      7-22-1993   30.04
94-02      3-10-1994   31.029
                       92.02;
94-01      3-24-1994   92.07;
                       92.11
94-05      7-28-1994   52.04
94-07      9-22-1994   112.02
94-08      11-10-1994  150.31
95-06      10-12-1995  50.16
97-05      8-5-1997    95.999
97-06      8-19-1997   152.02
97-07      9-16-1997   93.65
                       52.03;
98-03      5-5-1998    52.04;
                       52.22;
                       53.057
98-05      5-19-1998   150.20
98-12      9-15-1998   35.01
98-13      9-15-1998   35.01
98-14      9-15-1998   34.46
99-07      6-1-1999    10.99
99-05      6-15-1999   30.02
99-10      12-21-1999  35.01
00-19      11-21-2000  111.53
00-20      11-21-2000  110.018;
                       110.999
00-22      11-21-2000  110.017
01-04      6-5-2001    30.04
01-08      9-4-2001    52.26
01-10      12-18-2001  50.15 
                       50.20
02-07      9-3-2002    35.01
03-03      3-4-2003    110.040
03-04      3-4-2003    110.066
03-05      3-4-2003    110.082
03-06      3-4-2003    110.104
03-07      4-3-2003    150.20
03-16      10-21-2003  111.25
04-07      7-20-2004   30.03
04-08      7-20-2004   51.15;
                       51.99
04-11      9-21-2004   30.04
04-12      12-7-2004   50.15;
                       52.04
05-04      6-7-2005    31.043
05-05      6-7-2005    34.21
05-09      7-5-2005    93.06
05-11      9-6-2005    113.01 
                       113.17
05-16      11-1-2005   50.15
05-19      12-6-2005   90.07
06-01      1-17-2006   150.46
06-03      1-17-2006   50.15
06-05      2-21-2006   155.085 
                       155.109
06-06      4-4-2006    52.04
06-11      7-18-2006   130.040;
                       130.999
07-02      4-18-2007   92.09
07-04      4-18-2007   35.01
07-10      9-4-2007    130.033;
                       130.999
07-11      9-4-2007    90.10;
                       90.99
07-14      9-18-2007   130.030;
                       130.999
07-17      11-6-2007   111.01
08-15      12-16-2008  30.04
09-06      5-5-2009    50.15;
                       50.20
09-07      5-19-2009   50.15
09-11      7-21-2009   50.20
10-01      1-5-2010    92.09
10-03      2-16-2010   30.05
10-05      5-18-2010   111.49
10-09      7-20-2010   155.162
10-11      9-7-2010    71.021
10-12      9-7-2010    93.60
10-16      11-4-2010   130.043
11-02      1-4-2011    90.30
11-03      2-8-2011    35.01
11-04      2-15-2011   112.02
11-07      3-22-2011   35.01
11-12      12-6-2011   35.01
12-01      2-21-2012   34.34
12-03      3-6-2012    Adopting Ordinance
12-05A     5-15-2012   Repealing 111.42
12-06      6-5-2012    50.15
12-09      7-17-2012   34.35
12-13      10-15-2012  71.080 
                       71.082
12-14      11-8-2012   50.15
12-15      11-8-2012   30.06
12-16      11-27-2012  50.30
12-17      12-17-2012  35.01
13-01      2-19-2013   71.081
13-04      - -         Adopting Ordinance
13-05      5-21-2013   130.117
13-08      12-3-2013   35.01
13-09      12-3-2013   50.15
13-10      12-17-2013  73.01  
                       73.09
14-01      3-4-2014    31.043
14-04      4-15-2014   150.20
14-08      5-20-2014   52.22
                       90.01 
                       90.03;
                       90.06 
                       90.09;
                       90.11;
                       90.12;
14-09      6-3-2014    90.14 
                       90.16;
                       90.30;
                       90.32 
                       90.34;
                       90.38;
                       90.50 
                       90.52
14-12      10-7-2014   150.46
14-14      10-7-2014   34.60;
                       34.61
14-17      12-16-2014  35.01
15-01      2-17-2015   31.043
15-02      3-17-2015   52.05
15-5       4-21-2015   93.06
15-09      6-2-2015    155.031
15-13      --          35.01
15-16      11-17-2015  30.07
15-17      --          34.85
Res. 16-07 2-11-2016   30.06
16-03      5-3-2016    52.04
16-04      5-3-2016    30.08;
                       30.09
16-05      6-7-2016    52.22
16-06      8-16-2016   130.118;
                       130.119
                       96.01 
16-07      8-16-2016   96.05;
                       96.99
16-09      --          35.01
17-02      5-2-2017    31.001
17-03      6-6-2017    50.15
17-04      6-6-2017    50.20
17-05      6-6-2017    52.04;
                       92.09
17-07      6-6-2017    30.08
17-09      7-18-2017   150.01
17-10      8-15-2017   30.15
17-11      9-12-2017   150.45
                       93.22;
17-12      9-12-2017   93.24 
                       93.27
17-13      12-18-2017  35.01
18-01      2-6-2018    30.25
18-06      6-19-2018   30.08
18-08      7-17-2018   97.01 
                       97.06
19-07      6-18-2019   50.15
19-09      6-18-2019   53.057
19-10      6-18-2019   52.03
19-11      6-18-2019   50.20
                       31.105;
19-12      8-6-2019    31.106;
                       31.115;
                       31.116
19-13      8-6-2019    36.01;
                       36.02
20-01      1-7-2020    50.15
20-2       1-7-2020    110.018
20-3       1-21-2020   130.119
20-4       1-21-2020   130.118
20-05      1-7-2020    31.065
20-06      2-4-2020    52.22
20-07      2-4-2020    52.04
20-08      2-4-2020    92.09
20-09      2-4-2020    50.15
20-15      10-6-2020   150.20
20-16      10-6-2020   35.01
                       155.020;
20-17      12-1-2020   155.021;
                       Ch. 155, App. A
21-01      4-13-2021   150.06
21-02      5-4-2021    130.044
21-03      5-4-2021    130.045
21-04      5-4-2021    71.038
21-05      5-4-2021    71.072
21-07      5-4-2021    52.04
21-11      11-2-2021   35.01
21-12      12-7-2021   50.15
2022-02    4-5-2022    95.052
2022-03    4-5-2022    150.28
2022-04    4-5-2022    150.29
22-07      8-2-2022    150.31
22-08      9-6-2022    30.04
22-09      9-6-2022    50.15
22-10      9-6-2022    130.030
22-14      10-4-2022   35.01
23-04      3-4-2023    150.06
23-07      7-5-2023    31.030
23-09      8-1-2023    30.10
23-11      12-5-2023   35.01
23-12      12-5-2023   30.11
23-13      1-2-2024    31.001
24-02      2-6-2024    95.033
                       98.01--
24-06      7-2-2024    98.08,
                       98.99
24-07      6-4-2024    111.01--
                       111.12
                       93.01;
                       93.02;
24-10      9-3-2024    93.60;
                       93.61;
                       93.99
24-11      9-3-2024    Repealing 110.120--110.123
24-13      10-1-2024   31.081
24-15      12-29-2024  35.01
25-01      1-7-2025    30.07
25-02      1-7-2025    30.15
25-03      1-7-2025    Repealing 70.01; 70.02; 70.04; 70.06
                       90.39--
25-04      2-4-2025    90.43;
                       90.99
25-06      5-6-2025    30.13
25-07      5-6-2025    30.12
25-08      5-6-2025    150.30
25-09      5-6-2025    30.45--
                       30.51
                       110.031;
25-11      5-6-2025    110.032;
                       110.037;
                       110.999
25-12      5-6-2025    35.01
25-13      5-6-2025    155.110
25-15      5-6-2025    31.120--
                       31.122
                      
 
 
