VILLAGE OF STONE PARK, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 23-13, passed 7-11-2023; and
State legislation current through 2023 Illinois Legislative Service, Pamphlet
#3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 13-16
ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF STONE PARK,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF STONE PARK DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
VILLAGE OF STONE PARK
COUNTY OF COOK
STATE OF ILLINOIS
ADOPTED BY THE
PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
OF THE
VILLAGE OF STONE PARK
THIS 12th DAY OF NOVEMBER, 2013
Published in pamphlet form
by the authority of the President
and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Stone Park, Cook
County, Illinois this 12th day
of November, 2013
ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF STONE PARK,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF STONE PARK DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Village of
Stone Park are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Illinois empower and
authorize the Village of Stone Park to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Village of Stone Park has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the Village of Stone Park of a general and permanent nature and publication
of such ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF STONE PARK, COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, as follows:
   SECTION 1: The general ordinances of the Village of Stone Park as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Stone Park.
   SECTION 2: Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
      TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         10.   General Provisions
         11.   Corporate Seal
      TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
         30.   Village Officials and Employees
         31.   Village Organizations
         32.   Police Department
         33.   Fire Department
         34.   Jail
         35.   Finance; Revenue; Taxation
         36.   Ethics Policy
      TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
         50.   Garbage and Refuse
         51.   Sewers
         52.   Water
         53.   Cross-Connection Control
      TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         70.   General Provisions
         71.   Rules of Operation
         72.   Parking Regulations
         73.   Motorcycles, Bicycles and Scooters
         74.   Pedestrians
         75.   Equipment; Loads
         76.   Motor Vehicle Offenses
      TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         90.   Abandoned Vehicles
         91.   Animal Control
         92.   Fire Prevention
         93.   Health; Safety; Sanitation
         94.   Noise Control
         95.   Nuisances
         96.   Streets and Sidewalks; Trees and Shrubs
      TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         110.   Advertising
         111.   Alcoholic Beverages
         112.   General Licensing Provisions
         113.   Massage Services
         114.   Nudity; Indecency; Obscenity
         115.   Peddlers and Solicitors; Itinerant Merchants
         116.   Taxicabs
         117.   Garage Sales and Other Occasional Sales
         118.   Mini-Theaters
         119.   Pawnbrokers
         120.   Adult Uses
         121.   Ice Cream Trucks, Push Carts and Vendors
      TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         130.   General Provisions
         131.   Offenses Pertaining to Property
         132.   Offenses Against Public Order
         133.   Offenses Against Public Justice and Administration
         134.   Offenses Against Public Morals
         135.   Gambling Offenses
         136.   Offenses Against Public Health and Safety
         137.   Weapons
      TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         150.   Building Standards
         151.   Fair Housing Standards
         152.   Mobile Home Parks
         153.   Subdivisions
         154.   Zoning
         155.   Comprehensive Plan
         156.   Floodplains
   SECTION 3: All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing the purchase or sales of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   SECTION 4: Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Village of Stone
Park is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances
in the Office of the Clerk.
   SECTION 5: Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   SECTION 6: This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
ADOPTED this 12th day of November, 2013
   Trustee Godfrey      Aye            Trustee Pas      Aye
   Trustee Burdi      Aye            Trustee Cassidy   Aye
   Trustee Teets      Aye            Trustee Guiterrez   Aye
APPROVED this 12th day of November, 2013       /s/
                           Village President
Attest:
  /s/
Village Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 19-15
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE VILLAGE OF STONE PARK
WHEREAS, the Village of Stone Park (hereinafter referred to as the "Village")
is an Illinois Municipal Corporation organized pursuant to the laws of the
State of Illinois;
WHEREAS, the Village of Stone Park is a home rule unit of local government with
authority granted pursuant to the Illinois Constitution of 1970, to exercise
certain powers and perform certain functions pertaining to its local government
and affairs;
WHEREAS, the Village has adopted and codified the Village of Stone Park Code of
Ordinances (hereinafter referred to as the "Village Code"), as amended;
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio,
(hereinafter referred to as the "Codifier") has completed the 2019 supplement
to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Stone Park, County of Cook, State
of Illinois,
WHEREAS, said supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Stone Park;
WHEREAS, the Codifier has recommended the revision or addition of certain
sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or make reference to
sections of the State of Illinois Compiled Statutes;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Village of Stone Park Board of Trustees to
accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the laws of the
State of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Village of Stone Park and for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and general welfare of the Village of Stone Park that this
ordinance take immediate effect upon its passage and approval as required by
law.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Village President and Board of Trustees
of the Village of Stone Park, Cook County, Illinois, pursuant to the Village of
Stone Park's "Home Rule" power, as follows:
Section One - Recitals
The Corporate Authorities hereby find that all of the recitals hereinbefore
stated as contained in the preamble to this ordinance are full, true and
correct and do hereby, by reference, incorporate and make them part of this
ordinance as legislative findings.
Section Two - Enactment
   a)   That the 2019 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Stone Park as submitted by the Codifier, and as attached hereto and made a part
hereof as Exhibit A, and is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
   b)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in
such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing the
purchase or sales of real or personal property, granting or accepting
easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or setting the
boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any
other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
   c)   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided herein, and
such code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given,
   d)   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Village of Stone Park and the Village Clerk is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of
Ordinances of the Village of Stone Park a copy of which is kept in the Office
of the Village Clerk.
Section Three - State of an Emergency
This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Village of Stone Park.
Section Four - Effective Date
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication as provided by law.
Section Five - Recording
This ordinance shall be entered into the minutes and upon the journals of the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Stone Park.
DECIDED pursuant to a Roll Call Vote:
                  YES      NO      ABSENT      PRESENT
Joseph P. Budi            X                     X
Nazario Garcia            X                     X
Marco A. Gutierrez            X                     X
Marco T. Paz               X                     X
Loretta J. Teets            X                     X
Sylvia Terrazas            X                     X
Beniamino Mazzulla (if necessary)
TOTAL               6      0      0         6
 
PASSED AND APPROVED by the Village of Stone Park Board of Trustees on the 24th
day of September, 2019:
Beniamino Mazzulla /s/
Beniamino Mazzulla
Village President
 
Attest:
 
Laura Cassidy-Hatchet /s/
Laura Cassidy-Hatchet
Village Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CORPORATE SEAL
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions; Rules of Construction
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Matricula consular
Administrative Code Hearings
   
10.30   Purpose
   
10.31   Definitions
   
10.32   Non-exclusivity
   
10.33   Code Hearing Department; establishment, jurisdiction, organization
   
10.34   Personnel; compensation
   
10.35   Commencement of hearings
   
10.36   Hearing procedures
   
10.37   Enforcement of judgement
   
10.38   Motor vehicle violations; enforcement, determination of liability;
driver’s license suspension
 
   
10.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS; RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Village of Stone Park,
Illinois, shall be designated as the “Code of Stone Park” and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The legislative body of the village.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Cook County, Illinois.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation, co-
partnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Illinois.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Stone
Park, Illinois.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the
words YEAR OF OUR LORD.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the village shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Board
of Trustees or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted to conform with the manifest intention,
and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct words were
contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall be made or
permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the village for the transaction of all village
business.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be effected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall by itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Board of Trustees shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to the indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            The municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act. 140, §§ 1 et
seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the village published in a pervious year and subsequently
amended, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by “
(Prior Code, §      ).”
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.19 MATRICULA CONSULAR.
   (A)   When requiring members of the public to provide identification, each
village department shall accept as valid identification of the person a
“matricula consular” identification card issued by the Mexican Consulate. The
requirements of this section do not apply under circumstances where:
      (1)   A federal or state statute, administrative regulation or directive,
or court decision requires the village to obtain different identification;
      (2)   A federal or state statute or administrative regulation or
directive preempts local regulation of identification requirements; or
      (3)   The village would be unable to comply with a condition imposed by a
funding source, which would cause the village to lose funds from that source.
   (B)   Nothing in this section is intended to prohibit village departments
from:
      (1)   Asking for additional information from individuals in order to
verify a current address or other facts that would enable the department to
fulfill its responsibilities; except that, this section does not permit the
department to require additional information solely in order to establish
identification of the person; or
      (2)   Using fingerprints for identification purposes under circumstances
where the department also requires fingerprints from persons who have a
driver’s license or state identification card.
(Ord. 02-30, passed 9-24-2002)
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE HEARINGS
§ 10.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for a fair and efficient system
of enforcement of village ordinances, as may be allowed by law and directed by
ordinance, through the administrative adjudication of violations of village
ordinances and by establishing a schedule of fines and penalties, and authority
and procedures for collection of unpaid fines and penalties.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 10.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE. Any municipal ordinance, law, rule, regulation or code set forth in
this code of ordinances, except ordinances for which the potential penalty
described therein includes a period of incarceration.
   HEARING OFFICER. A person appointed by the Village President to preside over
administrative hearings, as set forth in this subchapter.
   OWNER.
      (1)   For the purpose of a violation relating to real property, the
person to whom the County Collector sent the last ascertainable tax bill; and
      (2)   For the purpose of a violation relating to motor vehicles, the
person to whom the motor vehicle is registered, as provided by the records of
the Secretary of State of Illinois. Any person so described herein may present
evidence to overcome the presumption that the person is the owner of the
property and/or motor vehicle for which the person received a notice of
violation.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 10.32 NON-EXCLUSIVITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not preclude the village from using
other methods or proceedings to enforce the village code, including, but not
limited to, the institution of any action in the Circuit Court of the county or
any administrative proceedings.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 10.33 CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT; ESTABLISHMENT, JURISDICTION, ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created within the village a Code Hearing Department,
which is authorized to provide for and operate a “system of administrative
adjudication”, as more fully described herein, which shall have jurisdiction
over the adjudication and enforcement of any violation of the village code.
   (B)   The Code Hearing Department shall be comprised of a Hearing Officer, a
Code Administrator, or his or her designee, and other duly appointed person or
persons deemed necessary for the efficient administration of the Code Hearing
Department, with the following powers and authority.
      (1)   Hearing Officer.
         (a)   All adjudicatory hearings shall be presided over by a Hearing
Officer. Prior to conducting administrative adjudication hearings, the Hearing
Officers shall have successfully completed a formal training program, which
includes the following:
            1.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative
adjudication hearings that they will conduct and preside over;
            2.   Orientation to each subject area of the code for which they
may adjudicate a violation;
            3.   Observation of administrative adjudication hearings; and
            4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on
evidence and issuing final orders.
         (b)   In addition, a Hearing Officer must be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the state for at least three years. A Hearing Officer may not
be an inspector or law enforcement officer employed by the village.
         (c)   Hearing Officers are hereby authorized, empowered and directed
to:
            1.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the
existence of an ordinance violation;
            2.   Issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give
relevant testimony or tangible items at an administrative adjudication hearing,
upon the request of the parties or their representatives;
            3.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the administrative
adjudication hearings, including all exhibits and evidence introduced at the
hearing;
            4.   Issue a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
administrative adjudication hearing, of whether a code violation occurred or
exists. The Hearing Officer’s determination shall be in writing and shall
include written findings of fact and law, a decision and an order including the
fine, penalty or other action with which the defendant must comply; and
            5.   a.   Impose penalties consistent with the applicable code and
assess costs upon finding a party liable or the charged violation; except,
however, that, in no event shall the Hearing Officer have authority:
                  i.   To impose a penalty of incarceration; or
                  ii.   Impose a fine in excess of $50,000.
               b.   The maximum monetary fine under this division (B)(1)(c)5.
shall be exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs incurred by the village to
secure compliance with the code and shall not be applicable to cases to enforce
the collection of any tax imposed and collected by the village.
      (2)   Code Administrator. The Code Administrator shall either be the
Clerk of the village, or his or her designee, or an independent contractor or
agency contracted by the village to perform the duties as enumerated herein. It
shall be the duty of the Village President to determine whether the duties of
the Code Administrator shall be performed by the Clerk or by an independent
contractor or agency. The Code Administrator is hereby authorized, empowered
and directed to:
         (a)   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
all code violations as may be permitted by law and directed by ordinance;
         (b)   Adopt, distribute and process all notices as may be required
under this subchapter or as may reasonably be required to carry out the purpose
of this subchapter;
         (c)   Collect moneys paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a
final determination of liability;
         (d)   Certify copies of final determinations of all code violations
adjudicated pursuant to this subchapter, and any factual reports verifying the
final determination of any violation liability which were issued in accordance
with this subchapter or the laws of the state, including ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
11-208.3, as from time to time amended;
         (e)   Certify reports to the Secretary of State concerning initiation
of suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter and those of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5;
         (f)   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably necessary for the
efficient operation and maintenance of the system of administrative
adjudication hereby established; and
         (g)   Collect unpaid fines and penalties through private collection
agencies that may be retained by the village or by requesting the Village
Prosecutor to act on behalf of the village in filing complaints in the County
Circuit Court, seeking judgements for unpaid fines or penalties and pursuing
all post-judgement remedies available under current law.
      (3)   Automation. The Code Administrator is hereby further authorized,
empowered and directed to operate and maintain a computer program for the
system of administrative adjudication hereby established, on a day-to-day
basis, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Imputing of violation notice information;
         (b)   Establishing hearing dates and notice dates;
         (c)   Recording fine and penalty assessment and payments;
         (d)   Issuing payment receipts;
         (e)   Issuing succeeding notice of hearing dates and/or final
determinations of liability, issuing notices of impending immobilization,
issuing notices of impending impoundment and issuing notices of impending
driver’s license suspension as may be required, in accordance with the Illinois
Vehicle Code. Nothing in this section is intended to preclude the Code
Administrator from including one or more of the above notices in the same
notice report; and
         (f)   Keeping accurate records of appearances and non-appearances at
administrative adjudication hearing, pleas entered and fines and other
penalties assessed and paid.
      (4)   Police personnel. The Chief of Police shall appoint and/or
designate a police officer to provide security for the administrative
adjudication hearings, and the officers are hereby authorized and directed to:
         (a)   Maintain hearing room decorum;
         (b)   Execute authority as granted to courtroom deputies of the
Circuit Court; and
         (c)   Perform other duties or acts as may be reasonably required and
as directed by the Hearing Officer or the Code Administrator.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 10.34 PERSONNEL; COMPENSATION.
   Authorization for compensation for each of the above-stated positions shall
be made by the Village Board through the annual budget or appropriation
process. Compensation shall be determined by the Village President within
approved budget or appropriation limitations.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 10.35 COMMENCEMENT OF HEARINGS.
   (A)   (1)   A proceeding before a Hearing Officer shall be instituted upon
the filing with the Code Administrator of a written sworn pleading, complaint
or citation by any authorized official of the village, including police
officers, code enforcement officers and other employees as authorized.
      (2)   In the event a complaint causing the initiation of a hearing is
filed by a tenant or occupant of a dwelling who is not also the owner thereof,
no action for eviction, abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer or
other similar proceeding, whether it be civil or criminal, shall be threatened
or instituted against the tenant or occupant solely because the tenant or
occupant files the complaint or agrees to testify or present tangible evidence
at an administrative adjudication hearing. The foregoing sentence shall not
apply if the owner proves by a preponderance of the evidence that the tenant or
occupant is the proximate cause of the violation for which the hearing is
commenced.
   (B)   (1)   Defendants shall be served with a copy of the written sworn
pleading, complaint or citation along with a notice of hearing in a manner
reasonably calculated to give them actual notice of the proceeding instituted
against them, by one of the following means:
         (a)   Personal service upon a party or its authorized agent;
         (b)   Service by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the
party’s last known address;
         (c)   Service by first class mail, postage prepaid, at the party’s
last known address; or
         (d)   If the party’s last known address cannot be ascertained after a
diligent search, by posting a copy of the sworn pleading, complaint or citation
in a conspicuous place upon the property or motor vehicle where the violation
is found when the party is the owner of the property or motor vehicle.
      (2)   Any notice presented by first class or certified mail, or by
posting, shall be deemed served three days after the deposit of the notice in
the U.S. mail or the posting of the notice.
   (C)   Notices of hearing shall include:
      (1)   The type and nature of the ordinance violation to be adjudicated,
including a citation to the appropriate section of the code;
      (2)   The date and time of the administrative adjudication hearing;
      (3)   The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to
be held;
      (4)   The penalties for failure to appear at the hearing; and
      (5)   Any witnesses or complainants who may be called to testify for the
village who are not employees or officers thereof.
   (D)   Administrative adjudication hearings shall be scheduled and docketed
by the Code Administrator no less than 30, and no more than 40, days after the
notice of hearing is served on the defendant.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 10.36 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Generally. Parties shall be provided with an opportunity for a hearing
before or during which they may exercise any or all of the following rights:
      (1)   Be represented by counsel, although defendants shall not be
entitled to have an attorney appointed to represent them;
      (2)   Present and cross-examine witnesses; and
      (3)   Request the Hearing Officer to issue subpoenas to direct the
attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses or the production of relevant
tangible evidence.
   (B)   Rules of evidence shall not govern. The formal and technical rules of
evidence shall not apply in administrative adjudication hearing authorized
under this subchapter. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted only if it
is the type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct
of their affairs.
   (C)   Standard of proof. Administrative adjudication hearings are civil in
nature. The village shall bear the standard of proof to prove by a
preponderance of the evidence the occurrence or existence of a violation of the
code. A sworn, written pleading, complaint or citation shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the violation.
   (D)   Defenses. It shall be a defense to a code violation charged under this
subchapter if the owner, his or her attorney or any other agent or
representative proves to the Hearing Officer’s satisfaction that:
      (1)   The code violation alleged in the notice did not in fact exist at
the time of the citation, pleading or complaint;
      (2)   The code violation has been caused by the current property
occupants and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the owner to maintain the
dwelling free of the violations, the current occupants continue to cause the
violations;
      (3)   An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the
owner, or his or her agent, to all or part of the dwelling for the purpose of
correcting the code violation(s); or
      (4)   The code violation alleged in the notice occurred before the owner
became the owner of the real or personal property. Notwithstanding the
foregoing sentence, any existing order to correct a code violation and/or
sanctions imposed by the village as a result of a finding of a code violation
under this subchapter shall attach to the property as well as to the owner of
the property, so that a finding of a code violation against one owner cannot be
avoided by conveying or transferring the property to another owner. Any
subsequent transferee owner of the property takes the same subject to the
findings, decision and order of a Hearing Officer under this subchapter.
   (E)   Continuances. No continuances shall be authorized by a Hearing Officer
for any administrative adjudication hearing commenced under this subchapter,
except in cases where a continuance is absolutely necessary to protect the
rights of the defendant or owner. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for
a continuance. Any continuance authorized by a Hearing Officer shall not exceed
28 days.
   (F)   Judicial review. Any final decisions by a Hearing Officer that a code
violation does or does not exist shall constitute a final determination for
purposes of judicial review and shall be subject to review under the State
Administrative Review Law, ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq., or as
hereinafter amended. Any person filing for judicial review under the
Administrative Review Law shall be subject to the assessment of costs for the
preparation and certification of the record of proceedings before the Hearing
Officer. The cost shall be assessed as $100 for the first page of the
transcript and $25 for each page thereafter. Any failure to pay the fee shall
subject the party seeking review to the provisions of ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 3-
109, including dismissal of the complaint on motion of the village.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 10.37 ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGEMENT.
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or cost imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the State Administrative
Review Law, being ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq., are a debt due and
owing the village and may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   Failure of the defendant to pay the fine or penalty after the
exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the
State Administrative Review Law, being ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.,
may result in, if applicable:
      (1)   The immobilization of the person’s vehicle for failure to pay fines
or penalties for five or more parking violations; and
      (2)   The suspension of the person’s driver’s license for failure to pay
fines or penalties for ten or more parking violations.
   (C)   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
State Administrative Review Law, being ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.,
may be sought for a final determination of an ordinance violation, unless
stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the findings, decision and order
of the Hearing Officer may be enforced in the same manner as a judgement
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   (1)   In any case in which a defendant has failed to comply with a
judgement ordering that defendant to correct an ordinance violation or imposing
any fine or other sanction as a result of an ordinance violation, any expenses
incurred by the village to enforce the judgement entered against that
defendant, including, but not limited to, attorney’s fees, court costs and
costs related to property demolition or foreclosure, after they are fixed by a
court of competent jurisdiction or a Hearing Officer, shall be a debt due and
owing the village and may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
      (2)   Prior to any expenses being fixed by the Hearing Officer pursuant
to this division (D), the Code Administrator shall serve a notice to the
defendant that states that defendant shall appear at a hearing before the
Hearing Officer to determine whether the defendant has failed to comply with
the judgement. The notice shall set forth the date for the hearing, which shall
not be less than seven days from the date service is effective.
   (E)   Upon being recorded in the manner required by Article XII of the
Illinois Code of Civil Procedure (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.), or by
the Uniform Commercial Code (ILCS Ch. 810, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.), a lien
shall be imposed on the real estate or personal property, or both, of the
defendant in the amount of any debt due and owing the village under this
subchapter. The lien may be enforced in the same manner as a judgement lien
pursuant to a judgement of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (F)   (1)   The Hearing Officer may set aside any judgement entered by
default and set a new hearing date, upon a petition filed by the defendant
within 21 days after the issuance of the order of default, if the Hearing
Officer determines that the defendant’s failure to appear at the hearing was
for good cause, or at any time if the defendant establishes, by a preponderance
of the evidence, that the village did not provide proper service of process. In
addition, for the purpose of motor vehicle violations, the grounds for the
petition may include:
         (a)   The person not having been the owner or lessee of the cited
vehicle on the date the parking violation notice was first issued; or
         (b)   The person having already paid the fine or penalty for the
parking violation in question.
      (2)   If any judgement is set aside pursuant to this division (F), the
Hearing Officer shall have authority to enter an order extinguishing any lien
which has been recorded for any debt due and owing the village as a result of
the vacated default judgement. The petitioner shall appear with appropriate
evidence, so that if the petition is granted, he or she is prepared to proceed
immediately with a hearing on the merits.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 5-13-2003)
§ 10.38 MOTOR VEHICLE VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT, DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY;
DRIVER’S LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Citations.
      (1)   Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the
code prohibiting or restricting vehicular parking or standing, the owner shall
be prima facie responsible for the violation and subjects to the penalty
therefor.
      (2)   Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the
code prohibiting or restricting vehicular parking or standing, any police
officer, traffic-control aide, other designated member of the Police
Department, parking enforcement aide or other person designated by the Code
Administrator observing the violation may issue a parking violation notice, and
serve the notice on the owner of the vehicle by handing it to the operator of
the vehicle, if he or she is present, or by affixing it to the vehicle in a
conspicuous place. The issuer of the notice shall specify on the notice his or
her identification number, the particular parking regulation allegedly
violated, the make and state registration number of the cited vehicle, and the
place, date, time and nature of the alleged violation and shall certify the
correctness of the specified information by signing his or her name as provided
in § 11-208.3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3, as
amended.
      (3)   The parking violation notice shall contain the information required
under the previous division (A)(2). In addition, the notices shall state the
applicable fines as provided herein, the monetary penalty which shall be
automatically assessed for late payment, the vehicle immobilization and
driver’s license suspension that may be imposed if fines and penalties are not
paid in full, that payment of the indicated fine and of any applicable penalty
for late payment, shall operate as a final disposition of the violation, and
information as to the availability of an administrative adjudication hearing in
which the violation may be contested on its merits and the manner in which such
hearing may be had.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the owner of the
vehicle or his or her designee, to remove from a vehicle a parking violation
notice affixed pursuant to this chapter.
      (5)   The Code Administrator shall distribute parking violation notices
to parking enforcement aides, other persons authorized to issue parking
violating notices and the Department of Police for issuance pursuant to these
provisions. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the distribution of
the notice forms within the Department of Police, shall maintain a record of
each set of notices issued to individual members of the Department and shall
retain a receipt for every set so issued.
      (6)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall compile and maintain
complete and accurate records relating to all parking violation notices issued
and the dispositions thereof, whether by payment of the fine or by final
determination of the Hearing Officer. In addition, the Traffic Compliance
Administrator shall make certified reports to the Secretary of State pursuant
to § 6-306.5 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (B)   Determination of liability; motor vehicle citations.
      (1)   (a)   Any person on whom a parking violation notice has been served
pursuant to this subchapter shall within seven days from the date of the
notice:
            1.   Pay the indicated fine; or
            2.   Request an administrative adjudication hearing as provided by
this subchapter to contest the charged violation.
         (b)   A response by mail shall be deemed timely if postmarked within
seven days of the issuance of the notice of violation.
      (2)   If the respondent requests an administrative hearing to contest the
cited violation, the Code Administrator shall notify the owner in writing of
the location and time available for a hearing in accordance with provisions of
this subchapter.
      (3)   Where a respondent who has requested an administrative hearing
either fails to pay the indicated fine prior to the hearing or fails to appear
at a hearing a final determination of parking violation liability shall be
entered in the amount of the fine indicated on the notice of violation. Failure
to pay the fine within 21 days of issuance of a Hearing Officer’s final
determination of liability will result in the imposition of a late payment
penalty pursuant to division (B)(5) below. Upon the occurrence of a final
determination of parking violation liability and after expiration of the period
in which judicial review under the State Administrative Review Law may be
sought, any unpaid fine or penalty will constitute a debt and owing the
village.
      (4)   (a)   If no response is made in accordance with division (B)(1)
above, the Code Administrator shall cause a second notice of violation to be
sent to the respondent. The notice shall specify the date and location of the
violation, the make and state registration number of the vehicle, the code
provision violated, the applicable fine, and the time and manner in which the
respondent requests an administrative adjudication hearing to contest the cited
violation, the Code Administrator will cause a notice of hearing to be sent to
the respondent as provided herein.
         (b)   If the respondent fails to pay the indicated fine or request a
hearing to contest the charged violation within 14 days from the date of the
second notice of violation a determination of parking violation liability shall
be entered in the amount of the fine indicated on the notice of violation.
Failure to pay the fine within 21 days of issuance of the determination of
liability will result in the imposition of a late payment penalty pursuant to
division (B)(5) below. Upon the occurrence of a final determination of parking
violation liability and after expiration of the period in which judicial review
under the State Administrative Review Law, being ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101
et seq., may be sought, any unpaid fine or penalty will constitute a debt due
and owing the village. The second notice of violation shall provide the above
information.
      (5)   Failure by any respondent to pay or mail payment of the fine for a
parking violation within 21 days of the issuance of the final determination of
liability will automatically subject the respondent to a penalty for late
payment. The penalty for late payment shall be $50. Failure to pay or mail
payment of a fine within each subsequent 21-day period after the issuance of
the determination of liability will automatically subject the respondent to
additional penalty of $30.
      (6)   A person charged with a parking violation may contest the charge
through an administrative adjudication hearing limited to one or more of the
following grounds with appropriate evidence to support:
         (a)   The respondent was not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle
at the time of the violation;
         (b)   The cited vehicle or its state registration plates were stolen
at the time the violation occurred;
         (c)   The relevant signs prohibiting or restricting parking were
missing or obscured;
         (d)   The relevant parking meter was inoperable or malfunctioned
through no fault of the respondent; and
         (e)   The facts alleged in the parking violation notice are
inconsistent or do not support a finding that the specified regulation was
violated.
   (C)   Lessor of vehicle; liability. In accordance with § 11-1306 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, no person who is the lessor of a vehicle pursuant to a
written lease agreement shall be liable for a violation of any standing or
parking regulation of this subchapter involving the vehicle during the period
of the lease if, upon receipt of a notice of violation, he or she shall, within
60 days thereafter, provide to the Code Administrator the name and address of
the lessee. Upon receipt of a lessor’s notification of the name and address of
his or her lessee, pursuant to §§ 11-1305 or 11-1306 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, the Code Administrator shall cause a notice of violation to be sent to
the lessee as provided herein. If the lessor fails to provide the Code
Administrator with the name and address of the lessee within 60 days of
receiving notice, the lessor shall be liable for the full amount of the
violation and late penalties, and a final determination will be issued.
   (D)   Immobilization program.
      (1)   (a)   The Code Administrator is hereby authorized to direct and
supervise a program of vehicle immobilization for the purpose of enforcing the
parking regulations of the code. The program of vehicle immobilization shall
provide for immobilizing any eligible vehicle, as defined in division (D)(2)
below, by placement of a restraint in a manner as to prevent its operation.
         (b)   If the eligible vehicle is parked or left in violation of any
provision of the traffic code for which the vehicle is subject to an immediate
tow, or in any place where it constitutes an obstruction or hazard, or where it
impedes village workers during such operations as snow removal, the Code
Administrator may cause the eligible vehicle to be towed to a vehicle pound or
relocated to a legal parking place and there restrained.
      (2)   (a)   When the registered owner of a vehicle has accumulated five
or more final determinations of parking violation liability for which the fines
and penalties, if applicable, have not been paid in full, the Code
Administrator shall cause a notice of impending vehicle immobilization to be
sent as prescribed in this subchapter.
         (b)   The notice of impending vehicle immobilization shall state the
name and address of the registered owner, the state registration number of the
vehicle or vehicles registered to the owner and the serial numbers of parking
violation notices which have resulted in final determination of liability for
which the fines or penalties remain unpaid. Failure to pay the fines and
penalties owed within 21 days from the date of the notice will result in the
inclusion of the state registration number of the vehicle or vehicles of the
owner on an immobilization list. A person may challenge the validity of the
notice of impending vehicle immobilization by requesting a hearing and
appearing in person to submit evidence which would conclusively disprove
liability. Upon a request for a hearing, the Code Administrator shall schedule
the hearing for the next regular hearing date. Documentary evidence which would
conclusively disprove liability shall be based on the following grounds:
            1.   All fines and penalties for the parking violations cited in
the notice have been paid in full; or
            2.   The registered owner has not accumulated five or more final
determinations of parking violation liability, which were unpaid at the time
the notice of impending vehicle immobilization was issued.
      (3)   Upon immobilization of an eligible vehicle, a notice shall be
affixed to the vehicle in a conspicuous place, the notice shall warn that the
vehicle is immobilized and that any attempt to move the vehicle may result in
its damage. The notice shall also state that the unauthorized removal of or
damage to the immobilizing restraint is a violation of §§ 16-1 and 21-1 of the
Illinois Criminal Code, being ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5. The notice shall also
provide information specifying how release of the immobilizing restraint may be
had, and how the registered owner may obtain an immobilization hearing. If the
restraint has not been released within 24 hours of its placement, the restraint
shall be released and the vehicle towed and impounded.
      (4)   The owner of an immobilized vehicle or other authorized person may
secure the release of the vehicle by paying the immobilization, towing and
storage fees provided in division (D)(7) below, and all fines and penalties
remaining due on each final determination of parking violation liability issued
to the person.
      (5)   The owner of an immobilized vehicle shall have the right to a
hearing to determine whether the immobilization or any subsequent towing and
impoundment was erroneous, if the owner files a written request for a hearing
with the Code Administrator within 14 days after immobilization or 14 days of
the date of the notice sent pursuant to this division (D)(5), whichever is
later. The determination of the Hearing Officer regarding the validity of the
immobilization shall become final for the purpose of judicial review under the
Administrative Review Law of the state upon issuance.
      (6)   Within ten days after a vehicle has been impounded, a notice of
impoundment shall be sent by first class mail, to the address of the registered
owner as listed with the Secretary of State. The notice shall state that the
owner has the right to request a post-immobilization and post-towing hearing as
provided in division (D)(5) above, and that if the vehicle is not claimed
within 30 days from the date of the notice, the vehicle may be sold or
otherwise disposed of in accordance with § 4-208 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
      (7)   The fee for immobilization shall be $50 for installation and $50
for removal. In addition, a fee for towing subsequent to the immobilization and
a storage fee for every 24-hour period the vehicle is retained shall be
assessed. No fees shall be assessed for any immobilization or tow which has
been determined to be erroneous.
      (8)   It shall be unlawful to relocate or tow any vehicle restrained by
an immobilization device without the approval of the Code Administrator, or his
or her designee. The registered owner of the immobilized vehicle and any person
who relocates an immobilized vehicle in violation of this division (D)(8) shall
each be subject to a penalty of $1,000 for the violation.
   (E)   Driver’s license suspension.
      (1)   When a person has failed to pay any fine or penalty due and owing
pursuant to this chapter on five or more parking violations, the Code
Administrator shall cause a notice of impending driver’s license suspension to
be sent in the form as required by the Secretary of State. The notice shall
state that failure to pay the amount owing within 45 days of the date of the
notice will result in the village’s notifying the Secretary of State that the
person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings pursuant to § 6-
306.5 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
      (2)   If a person sent a notice pursuant to division (E)(1) above fails
to pay the amount owing within the time stated on the notice, the Code
Administrator may file with the Secretary of State, a certified report, in
accordance with § 6-306.5(c) of the Illinois Vehicle Code, that the person is
eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings. The Code Administrator shall
assess a $20 filing fee against the person named in the certified report to
reimburse the village for the expense of preparing and filing the certified
report with the Secretary of State.
      (3)   (a)   A person named in a certified report filed pursuant to
division (E)(2) above may, within 21 days of the date of the notice sent by the
Secretary of State pursuant to § 6-306.5(b) of the Illinois Vehicle Code, file
with the Code Administrator a written statement and supporting documentation to
challenge the report; provided, however, the grounds for the challenge shall be
limited to:
            1.   The person not having been the owner or lessee of the vehicle
or vehicles receiving ten or more parking violations notices on the date or
dates the notices were issued; or
            2.   The person having already paid the fine and penalty for the
ten or more violations indicated on the report.
         (b)   The Code Administrator shall send notice of the decision on the
challenge of the report after receipt thereof.
      (4)   If a person named in a certified report has paid the previously
reported fine or penalty or if the report is determined by the Code
Administrator to be in error, the Code Administrator shall notify the Secretary
of State in accordance with § 6-306.5(d) of the Illinois Vehicle Code. A
certified copy of the notification shall be given, upon request and at no
charge, to the person named therein.
      (5)   An administrative hearing to contest an impending suspension or
suspension may be had upon filing a written request with the Secretary of
State. The filing fee for this hearing shall be $20, to be paid at the time the
request is made. The village shall reimburse the Secretary of State for all
reasonable costs incurred by the Secretary as a result of filing a certified
report, including, but not limited to, the costs of providing the required
notice and the costs incurred by the Secretary in any hearing conducted with
respect to the report and any appeal from a hearing.
   (F)   Vehicle seizure and impoundment of motor vehicles used in connection
with illegal activities.
      (1)   Violations subject to seizure and impoundment of motor vehicle. A
motor vehicle operated with the permission, express or implied, of the owner of
record, that is used in connection with the following violations, shall be
subject to the seizure and impoundment by the village, and the owner of record
of the vehicle shall be liable to the village for an administrative penalty in
addition to any towing and storage fees as hereinafter provided:
         (a)   The operator of vehicle is found to be driving with a suspended
or revoked license, as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-303, shall be guilty
of a violation of this division (F);
         (b)   The operator of a vehicle found to be driving under the
influence, as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501, shall be guilty of a
violation of this division (F);
         (c)   The operator of a vehicle found to be driving without a valid
driver’s license, as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-101. Any person found
to be in violation of this subsection shall be liable to the village for an
administrative penalty of not more than $500 in addition to any towing and
storage fees as provided herein;
         (d)   The operator of a vehicle found to be driving while the
registration of the vehicle is suspended or revoked for failure to have
automobile insurance, as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-708, shall be
guilty of a violation of this division (F);
         (e)   The operator of a vehicle found to be in possession of cannabis,
as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 4, shall be guilty of a violation of
this division (F);
         (f)   The operator of a vehicle found to be in possession of a
controlled substance, as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 402, shall be
guilty of a violation of this division (F);
         (g)   The operator of a vehicle found to be in possession of a an
unlawful weapon, as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1, shall be guilty of
a violation of this division (F);
         (h)   When a motor vehicle is operated by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a Circuit Court in the state for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated any of the sections listed above shall be
guilty of a violation of this division (F);
         (i)   The operation of any motor vehicle with open alcohol in
violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-502;
         (j)   Any vehicle operated and occupied solely by minors wherein
alcoholic beverages, whether open or sealed;
         (k)   Any vehicle being operated or having been operated while the
operator or occupants of the vehicle are in the commission of or fleeing from
the commission of a crime constituting a charge of a Class A misdemeanor, or
any felony;
         (l)   Any motor vehicle which is being used to engage in drag racing,
as defined in §
76.02 (Drag Racing); and
         (m)   Any motor vehicle which is being used to engage in drifting, as
defined in §
76.11 (Drifting).
      (2)   General regulations.
         (a)   This division (F) shall not replace or otherwise abrogate any
existing state or federal laws or village ordinance pertaining to vehicle
seizure and impoundment and these penalties shall be in addition to any
penalties that may be assessed by a court for any criminal charges.
         (b)   Fees for towing and storage of a vehicle under this division (F)
shall be those approved by the Director of Public Safety for all towers
authorized to tow for the Police Department.
      (3)   Probable cause and notice of preliminary hearing.
         (a)   Whenever a police office has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this division (F),
the police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility
controlled by the village or its agent.
         (b)   When the vehicle is towed the police officer shall notify the
person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of the seizure and of the
vehicle owner’s right to request a preliminary hearing to be conducted pursuant
to this division (F).
      (4)   Administrative process.
         (a)   Preliminary hearing.
            1.   The owner of a vehicle seized pursuant to this division (F)
may request a preliminary hearing within 72 hours after the seizure.
            2.   A Hearing Officer of the village shall conduct a preliminary
hearing within 48 hours after the request unless extended by agreement of all
of the parties.
            3.   All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to be heard at the preliminary hearing.
            4.   The formal rules of evidence will not apply at the hearing and
hearsay evidence shall be admissible.
            5.   If, after the hearing, the Hearing Officer determines that
there is probable cause to believe that the vehicle was operated with knowledge
of the owner and used in the commission of a violation of this division (F),
the Hearing Officer shall order the continued impoundment of the vehicle as
provided in this division (F) unless the owner of the vehicle posts with the
village a cash bond in the amount of $500, plus fees for towing and storage of
the vehicle.
            6.   If the Hearing Officer determines that there is no such
probable cause, the vehicle will be returned without penalty or other fees or
charges.
         (b)   Administrative hearing.
            1.   An Administrative Hearing Officer of the village shall conduct
the hearing.
            2.   Within ten days after a vehicle is seized and impounded
pursuant to this division (F), the village shall notify by certified mail,
return receipt requested the owner of record of the date, time and location of
a hearing that will be conducted pursuant to this division (F).
            3.   The hearing shall be conducted no later than 45 days after the
vehicle was seized.
            4.   All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to be heard at the hearing.
            5.   If, after the hearing, the Hearing Officer determines by a
preponderance of evidence that the vehicle was operated with the knowledge of
the owner, and was used in the commission of a violation of this division (F),
the Administrative Hearing Officer shall enter an order requiring the vehicle
to continue to be impounded until the owner pays a penalty of $500, plus fees
for towing and storage of the vehicle.
            6.   The penalty and fees shall be a debt due and owing the
village. However, if a cash bond has been posted the bond shall be applied to
the penalty.
            7.   The Director of Public Safety, or his or her designee, may
distribute to local newspapers the names of all persons convicted of a
violation of this division (F).
            8.   If the Hearing Officer determines that the vehicle was not
used in violation of this division (F), he or she shall order the return of the
vehicle or cash bond.
            9.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this division (F),
whenever a person with a lien of record against a vehicle impounded under this
section has commenced foreclosure proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall
be given to that person if he or she agrees in writing to refund to the village
the net proceeds of any foreclosure sale, less any amounts necessary to pay all
lienholders of records, up to the total amount to penalties and fees imposed
under this division (F).
      (5)   Unclaimed motor vehicles. Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed
within 30 days after the expiration of the time during which the owner of
record may seek judicial review of the village’s action under this section, or
the time at which a final judgement is rendered in favor of the village, or the
time of a final administrative decision is rendered against an owner of record
who is in default may be disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle as provided by
law.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 5-13-2003; Ord. 04-05, passed 2-24-2004; Ord. 06-18, passed
11-15-2006; Ord. 11-19, passed 7-12-2011; Ord. 23-04, passed 5-9-2023) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $500. The village may also
impose imprisonment for certain violations, but only as set forth under ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 10.99)
   (B)   A person who is found liable for any of the violations provided by §
10.38(F) of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not less than $750, unless
specifically provided otherwise. To the extent allowed by law, personnel of the
Department of Police shall prevent and oppose the release of any person charged
with a violation of §
10.38(F) of this chapter on bond secured by that person’s own recognizance.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 5-13-2003; Ord. 04-05, passed 2-24-2004; Ord. 06-18, passed
11-15-2006; Ord. 11-19, passed 7-12-2011; Ord. 23-04, passed 5-9-2023)
CHAPTER 11: CORPORATE SEAL
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The corporate seal of the village shall be a circular disc, so designed as
to impress the words “Village of Stone Park, Illinois” on the periphery thereof
and “Village Seal, Incorporated 1939" in the center.
(Prior Code, § 11.01)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
31.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   JAIL
      
35.   FINANCE; REVENUE; TAXATION
      
36.   ETHICS POLICY
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Elections
   
30.002   Residency requirements
   
30.003   Appointments
   
30.004   Terms; vacancies
   
30.005   Oath
   
30.006   Bond
   
30.007   Salaries
   
30.008   Money received
   
30.009   Records
   
30.010   Impersonation
   
30.011   Interference
   
30.012   Contracts
   
30.013   Termination
   
30.014   Pension funds; regulations adopted by reference
   
30.015   Allowance for use of personal vehicle
   
30.016   Drug and alcohol policy
   
30.017   Indemnification
   
30.018   Prohibition on working for businesses that hold liquor licenses
   
30.019   Diversity, equity and inclusion policy
Village President
   
30.030   Qualifications; election; term
   
30.031   Duties
   
30.032   Designees
   
30.033   Bond; salary; title
Board of Trustees
   
30.045   Election; duties
   
30.046   Oath and salary
   
30.047   Time and place of meetings; special meetings
   
30.048   Presiding officer
   
30.049   Rescinded action
   
30.050   Resolutions
   
30.051   Addressing meetings
   
30.052   Suspension of rules
   
30.053   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.054   Quorum
   
30.055   Standing committees; special committees
   
30.056   Disturbing meetings
Village Clerk
   
30.070   Election; term; vacancy
   
30.071   Bond
   
30.072   Signatures
   
30.073   Money collected
   
30.074   Accounts
   
30.075   Records
   
30.076   Keeper of village seal
   
30.077   Village Collector
   
30.078   Salary
Deputy Village Clerk
   
30.090   Appointment
   
30.091   Bond
   
30.092   Duties
   
30.093   Salary
Treasurer
   
30.105   Appointment
   
30.106   Bond
   
30.107   Duties
Attorney
   
30.120   Office established; appointment
   
30.121   Special counsel
   
30.122   Suits and actions
   
30.123   Judgements
   
30.124   Advice
Building Inspector
   
30.135   Appointment
   
30.136   Duties
   
30.137   Stop order
   
30.138   Entry power
Plumbing Inspector; Electrical Inspector
   
30.150   Offices established
   
30.151   Duties
   
30.152   Stop order
   
30.153   Certificate of completion
   
30.154   Entry power
Health Officer
   
30.165   Office established
   
30.166   Duties
   
30.167   Reports
Director of Public Works
   
30.180   Office established
   
30.181   Duties
Director of Maintenance and Engineering
   
30.195   Office established
   
30.196   Appointment
   
30.197   Duties
Director of Public Safety
   
30.210   Office established
   
30.211   Chief of Police to be Director of Public Safety
   
30.212   Duties
 
   
30.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 ELECTIONS.
   Elections for municipal officers shall be held as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.001)
§ 30.002 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall be eligible to hold any office, other than that of
Village Attorney, Village Engineer, Director of Public Safety and Director of
Public Works, under the village government who is not a qualified elector of
the village and who shall not have resided therein for at least one year
preceding his or her election or appointment; nor shall any person be eligible
to any office who is a defaulter to the village.
   (B)   In the case of the appointment of a Director of Public Safety and
Director of Public Works who is not a resident of the village at the time of
his or her appointment, the Director of Public Safety and Director of Public
Works shall be required to reside within the boundaries of Higgins Road on the
north, Harlem Avenue on the east, Route 53 on the west and Roosevelt Road on
the south of the corporate limits of the village within six months of his or
her appointment.
   (C)   Except as described in divisions (A) and (B) above, all employees,
heads of departments and commission members are required to reside in the
village at the time of being hired or appointed or within one year of being
appointed. All employees, heads of departments and commission members are
required to establish residency in the village.
   (D)   All employees, heads of departments and commission members are
required to maintain residency in the village during their term of service to
the village.
   (E)   The provisions of this section do not apply to Police Department
personnel and to legal, medical and engineering professions’ appointments.
   (F)   Non-resident village employees currently holding positions with the
village are not bound by the provisions of this section.
   (G)   In the event a position of employment with the village demands it be
filled by a certified, qualified person who has the necessary credentials and
expertise to be hired and appointed to that position and the Village Board
cannot fill that position with a resident or would-be resident, the Board may
waive the residency requirement to fill that position.
   (H)   Any village employee, head of a department and/or commission member
failing to comply with the provisions of divisions (C) and (D) above will
forfeit his or her position at the time of non-compliance.
(Prior Code, § 30.002) (Ord. 85-1, passed 5-13-1985; Ord. 91-4, passed 7-22-
1991)
§ 30.003 APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   All officers, other than elective officers, shall be appointed by the
President and the Board of Trustees, as is provided by statute; provided, all
employees shall, in the absence of any provisions to the contrary, be appointed
or selected by the President.
   (B)   The following positions, committees and boards shall be appointed on
an annual basis, from May 1 to April 30:
      (1)   Administrative appointments.
         (a)   Administrative Assistant to the Mayor;
         (b)   Treasurer;
         (c)   Bookkeeper;
         (d)   Village Attorney;
         (e)   Village Prosecutor;
         (f)   Director of Public Works;
         (g)   Village Engineer;
         (h)   Director of Maintenance and Engineering;
         (i)   Village Sanitarian;
         (j)   Health Officer;
         (k)   Assistant Health Officer;
         (l)   Plumbing Inspector;
         (m)   Building and Electrical Inspector; and
         (n)   Assistant Building Inspector.
      (2)   Public Safety Department appointments.
         (a)   Police Chief/Director of Public Safety;
         (b)   Commander of Operations;
         (c)   Fire Department Commander;
         (d)   Operations of Police Department;
         (e)   Commander of Patrol Division of Police Department;
         (f)   Police Department Investigator Juvenile Officers; and
         (g)   Administrative Assistant to Chief of Police.
      (3)   Committees and boards.
         (a)   Historical Committee Chairperson;
         (b)   Youth Commission and Recreation Directors; and
         (c)   Board of Fire and Police Commission Pension Board members.
(Prior Code, § 30.003) (Ord. 96-3, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 30.004 TERMS; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Every appointive officer of the village shall hold office until May 1
following his or her appointment or until a successor is appointed and
qualified, unless provided otherwise by ordinance.
   (B)   In case of a vacancy in any such place, it shall be filled in the same
manner in which appointments or selections are made, in the absence of
provisions to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 30.004)
§ 30.005 OATH.
   (A)   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
village officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe the
following oath:
      “I do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United
States, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and I will faithfully
discharge the duties of the office of
                                           according to the best of my
ability.”
   (B)   This oath, so subscribed, shall be filed in the office of the Village
Clerk.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-25) (Prior Code, § 30.005)
§ 30.006 BOND.
   (A)   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
village officers, except Trustees, shall execute a bond with security, to be
approved by the Board of Trustees. The bond shall be payable to the village in
whatever penal sum may be directed by resolution or ordinance, conditioned upon
the faithful performance of the duties of the office and the payment of all
money received by the office, according to law and also the ordinances of the
village.
   (B)   The bond may provide that the obligation of the sureties shall not
extend to any loss sustained by the insolvency, failure or closing of any bank
or savings and loan association organized and operating either under the laws
of the state or the United States wherein the officer has placed funds in his
or her custody, if the bank or savings and loan association has been approved
by the corporate authorities as a depository for these funds. In no case,
however, shall the Mayor's bond be fixed at less than $3,000.
   (C)   The Treasurer’s bond shall be an amount of money that is not less than
three times the latest federal census population or any subsequent census
figure used for Motor Fuel Tax purposes. These bonds shall be filed with the
Clerk, except the bond of the Clerk, which shall be filed with the Treasurer.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-30) (Prior Code, § 30.006)
§ 30.007 SALARIES.
   (A)   All village officers, except as otherwise provided, shall receive the
salary or other compensation that is fixed by ordinance. Salaries or other
compensation shall not be increased or diminished, so as to take effect during
the term of any elected village officer. The salaries, fees or other
compensation of any appointed village officer, not including those appointed to
fill vacancies in elective offices, may be increased, but not diminished, so as
to take effect during the term for which the officer was appointed.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-50-5)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may fix the salary of all village officers and
employees in the annual appropriation ordinance or budget ordinance. It may fix
the salary of all officers who are elected for a definite term in an ordinance
other than the appropriation or budget ordinance. Salaries which are fixed in
the annual appropriation ordinance shall neither be increased, nor diminished,
during the fiscal year for which the appropriation is made. Salaries which are
fixed by ordinance for those officers who are elected for a definite term shall
neither be increased, nor diminished, during that term, and shall be fixed at
least two months prior to a general village election in which voting is held
for those offices.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-50-10)
(Prior Code, § 30.007)
§ 30.008 MONEY RECEIVED.
   Every officer of the village shall, at least once each month, turn over all
money received in his or her official capacity to the Village Clerk with a
statement showing the source from which the money was received.
(Prior Code, § 30.008)
§ 30.009 RECORDS.
   All records kept by any officer of the village shall be open to inspection
by the President or any member of the Board of Trustees at all reasonable
times, whether or not the records are required to be kept by statute or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 30.009)
§ 30.010 IMPERSONATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate, without lawful
authority, any village officer or employee.
(Prior Code, § 30.010) Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.011 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful to interfere with or hinder any officer or employee of
the village while engaged in the duties of his or her office or employment.
(Prior Code, § 30.011) Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.012 CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The Village President or any other person designated by the Village
President in accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, Art. 3.1, may, on behalf of
the village, sign any contract authorized by the Board.
   (B)   No contract may be entered into without the authority of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 30.012)
§ 30.013 TERMINATION.
   Every officer and employee of the village, upon the expiration of his or her
term for any cause, shall deliver to his or her successor all books and records
which may be the property, together with other property, of the village. If no
successor has been appointed within one week after the termination of office,
the property shall be delivered to the Village Clerk or Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 30.013)
§ 30.014 PENSION FUNDS; REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The village’s pension fund policies, for employees, police officers and the
like, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in
full.
(Ord. 94-13, passed 4-17-1995; Ord. 95-14, passed 3-4-1996; Ord. 95-16, passed
3-4-1996; Ord. 97-12, passed 1-19-1998; Ord. 01-22, passed 9-25-2001; Ord. 02-
14, passed 4-23-2002; Ord. 03-07, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 30.015 ALLOWANCE FOR USE OF PERSONAL VEHICLE.
   The Village President is expected to use his or her personal vehicle while
conducting village business, rather than require the village to provide him or
her with a vehicle. In order to defray the expenses associated with the use of
his or her personal vehicle while conducting village business, and in
consideration for the savings that the village will experience by not providing
a vehicle, the Village President shall receive:
   (A)   One tank of gasoline per week (not to exceed 30 gallons);
   (B)   One thousand dollars per year toward the cost of automobile insurance;
and
   (C)   Five hundred dollars per year toward the cost of automobile
maintenance.
(Ord. 11-16, passed 5-24-2011; Ord. 21-25, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 30.016 DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. To clearly state the village’s position towards the
possession, use or abuse of alcohol and drugs on the job.
   (B)   Policy statement.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   The village believes that the best interests of employees, the
village and the public are served by ensuring that the workplace remains free
from abusers of alcohol and drugs. Allowing employees to attempt to work while
under the influence of alcohol or drugs not only lowers employee morale and
productivity, it also increases the probability of work-related accidents and
injuries. The purpose of this policy is to assist supervisors in identifying
employees who may be abusing alcohol and/or drugs and to establish a consistent
method for resolving these problems.
         (b)   Being under the influence of alcohol and/or illegal drugs while
on village property, or while performing village business, is strictly
prohibited. In addition, the use, possession, sale, transfer or purchase of any
illegal drug or alcohol on village property, or while performing village
business is also strictly prohibited. Violations of this policy may result in
disciplinary actions up to and including immediate termination.
      (2)   Drug/alcohol abuse detection methods.
         (a)   The village may conduct tests for alcohol and/or drugs in a
number of situations including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Testing of applicants as a pre-employment screening device;
            2.   Testing of employees as part of a routine physical
examination, such as return to work physicals or an annual physical
examination;
            3.   Testing of employees who have caused, or who have contributed
to, an on the job accident which has caused either physical injury or damage to
village property;
            4.   Testing of employees who display unusual, erratic behavior or
whose job performance changes in a way that suggests that the use of alcohol
and/or drugs may be affecting their job performance; and
            5.   Testing of employees in safety-sensitive positions on a random
basis to ensure the maintenance of safe working environment.
         (b)   Employees should recognize that the village may utilize other
methods of drug detection in order to maintain a drug-free working environment.
These methods include, but are not limited to:
            1.   Suspicionless searches of employee lockers, desks, village
motor vehicles and other village property used by employees;
            2.   Searches of individual employees’ persons, purses and motor
vehicles parked on village property, upon reasonable suspicion of violations of
this policy; and
            3.   Bringing guard dogs to work to search for illegal drugs.
      (3)   Definitions. For the purpose of this policy, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         DRUG TEST (or TEST). A urine, blood, saliva, breath or hair follicle
test to determine the presence of alcohol or drugs.
         ILLEGAL DRUG. Any drug, or derivative thereof, for which the use,
possession, sale, transfer, attempted sale or transfer, manufacture or storage
of is illegal and/or regulated under any federal, state, local law or
regulation and any other drug, including, but not limited to, a prescription
drug which is used for any other reason other than a legitimate medical reason,
in the dosage prescribed, as well as the use of illegal inhalants. Included in
this definition are marijuana or cannabis in all its forms.
         NEGATIVE TEST RESULT. No drugs or alcohol in excess of the guidelines
established by the village have been detected.
         POSITIVE TEST RESULT. Any test result which shows the presence of any
illegal drug (as defined above) or alcohol in excess of the limits set by the
village.
      (4)   Reasonable suspicion testing procedures.
         (a)   Recognition of substance abuse. Supervisors should be aware of
the symptoms of potential alcohol and/or drug abuse among employees, in order
to facilitate the formulation of reasonable suspicion in cases of employee
substance abuse. Symptoms include, but are not limited to:
            1.   Excessive absenteeism;
            2.   Multiple instances of unauthorized absence;
            3.   Frequent Monday or Friday absences;
            4.   Excessive tardiness, particularly in the mornings and after
lunch;
            5.   Leaving work early;
            6.   Peculiar and increasingly improbable excuses for absences;
            7.   Continued absence from desk or work area;
            8.   Frequent trips to water fountain or rest room;
            9.   Long coffee breaks;
            10.   High accident rate;
            11.   Difficulty in concentration;
            12.   Jobs take more time than usual;
            13.   Hand tremor when concentrating;
            14.   Confusion;
            15.   Difficulty in recalling instructions and own mistakes;
            16.   Spasmodic work patterns;
            17.   Alternate periods of high and low productivity;
            18.   Coming to and/or returning to work in an obviously abnormal
condition;
            19.   Generally lowered job efficiency due to carelessness and/or
inattention;
            20.   Wide swings in morale; and
            21.   Borrowing money from fellow workers.
         (b)   Contact employee’s department head. An employee’s immediate
supervisor who formulates a reasonable suspicion of violation of this policy
based upon any of these symptoms shall immediately contact the employee’s
department head (or, in the absence of the department head, his or her
designee) and discuss the situation with them. The department head (or
designee) and supervisor will then sit down to counsel with the employee
determine if there may be a legitimate reason for the employee’s poor
performance. It is recommended that the department head interview the employee.
         (c)   Interview of employee. Explain to the employee that the
department head doesn’t understand the reason for his or her erratic or unusual
work behavior. Ask if there is some reason which may explain their erratic or
abnormal work performance. The supervisor and department head will also record
their own observations of the employee’s behavior using the “employee behavior
checklist”. If the employee provides a reasonable explanation for his or her
abnormal or erratic work behavior, thank him or her and take whatever action is
appropriate to improve his or her work behavior. If the employee has no
reasonable explanation, the department head will complete an employee
counseling form in the following manner.
         (d)   Completing the employee counseling forms.
            1.   For “reason”, the department head (or designee) will check
“other”, and will write in “erratic work behavior”;
            2.   For “action taken”, the department head (or designee) will
check “suspension with pay”;
            3.   Under “description of incident”, the department head (or
designee) will write the following statement:
               “(Employee’s Name)’s erratic and abnormal work performance
suggests that (Employee Name) may be under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
(Employee Name) can provide no other reasonable explanation for their behavior.
As a result, (Employee Name) is being sent home for the remainder of the day.
(Employee Name) has been advised that this is considered a very serious matter
by the Village and that in the event that there is any further suggestion of
(alcohol/drug) abuse on the job, that (Employee Name) will be required to
submit to a blood test and/or urinalysis test. (Employee Name) has further been
advised that refusal to submit to such a test will be considered
insubordination. Refusal to submit to such a test will be grounds for
disciplinary actions up to and including immediate discharge.”
         (e)   Transport of employee. The Director of Personnel will arrange
transportation home for the employee. Never, under any circumstances, should
such an employee be allowed to drive himself or herself home from work.
         (f)   Subsequent offense. Following such a counseling session, if the
supervisor again notices that the same employee’s work performance seems to
indicate the possibility of alcohol or drug abuse, the supervisor will contact
the department head (or designee) and will arrange an immediate meeting with
the employee to talk with the employee to determine if there is a legitimate
reason for the employee’s poor work performance. If there is no legitimate
reason, and the supervisor and department head (or designee) have a reasonable
suspicion that the problem is alcohol or drug related, the employee will be
informed that he or she will be expected to take a drug and alcohol test to
determine if the performance problem is related to alcohol and/or drug abuse.
         (g)   Order to submit to drug/alcohol testing. The employee will be
informed that failure to submit to a test will be considered an act of
insubordination. It should be explained that his or her refusal to submit to
the blood test and/or urinalysis test will subject the employee to disciplinary
actions up to and including immediate discharge. The employee will also be
informed that a positive test result will be cause for disciplinary actions up
to and including discharge.
         (h)   Transport of employee to test. If the employee agrees to submit
to a blood test and/or urinalysis, the Director of Personnel will make
arrangements to transport the employee to the testing facility for the drug and
alcohol test.
         (i)   Explanation. It will be explained to the employee that he or she
is being suspended from work, without pay, pending the results of the test.
         (j)   Results of test. In the event of a positive test result for
drugs or alcohol, the employee will be notified of his or her discipline, up to
and including termination. In addition, the employee will be advised of the
procedures he or she may utilize if he or she wants to challenge the test
results.
         (k)   Challenge to test results. In the event the employee wishes to
challenge the validity of the test results, he or she will be allowed to have
one of the samples previously collected by the testing facility retested. This
retest may be performed at the original drug testing laboratory or at another
NIDA certified drug and alcohol testing facility. The cost of a retest will be
borne by the employee.
         (l)   Results of challenge. If, as a result of a retest, it is
determined that the original results were accurate, the employee’s termination
will stand. If it is determined that the original results were in error, then
the employee will be eligible for immediate reinstatement with back pay for all
the time he or she has missed.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 6-1-1998; Ord. 01-09, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 30.017 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   (1)   If any claim or action is instituted against an officer or
employee of the village based on an injury allegedly arising out of an act or
omission occurring within the scope of his or her service or employment as an
officer or employee, the village may elect to do any one or more of the
following as appropriate:
         (a)   Appear and defend against the claim or action;
         (b)   Indemnify the officer or employee for his or her court costs or
reasonable attorney’s fees, or both, incurred in the defense of the claim or
action;
         (c)   Pay or indemnify the officer or employee for a judgement based
on the claim or action; and/or
         (d)   Pay or indemnify the officer or employee for a compromise or
settlement of a claim or action.
      (2)   The indemnification shall not apply to any portion of a judgement
representing an award of punitive or exemplary damages.
   (B)   If any officer or employee incurs attorney’s fees in connection with
his or her service or employment to the village and within the scope of his or
her scope of service or employment, the village may elect to indemnify the
officer or employee for his or her reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 30.018 PROHIBITION ON WORKING FOR BUSINESSES THAT HOLD LIQUOR LICENSES.
   Employees of the village are prohibited from working at any business or
other establishment located within the village that holds a liquor license with
the exception of part-time police officers and auxiliary officers.
(Ord. 13-11, passed 8-13-2013; Ord. 19-07, passed 5-14-2019)
Cross-reference:
   
Chapter 111, Alcoholic Beverages
§ 30.019 DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION POLICY.
   The diversity, equity and inclusion policy, included as Exhibit A to Ord.
20-18, is hereby adopted.
(Ord. 20-18, passed 11-10-2020)
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
§ 30.030 QUALIFICATIONS; ELECTION; TERM.
   (A)   The Village President shall be elected to office for a four-year term,
according to the method provided by statute.
   (B)   The Village President shall be a citizen of the United States, a
qualified elector and shall have resided within the corporate limits of the
village at least one year next preceding the election at which he or she is a
candidate.
   (C)   No person shall be eligible for the Office of President if that person
is a defaulter to the village.
(Prior Code, § 30.050) (Ord. 72-9, passed 4-9-1973)
§ 30.031 DUTIES.
   (A)   Devotion to duty. The Village President shall be the executive officer
of the village and shall devote his or her full time to the duties of the
office as a faithful and efficient discharge thereof may required. The
President shall perform all duties prescribed by law, including the village
ordinances, and shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully
executed.
   (B)   Appointments. The President, by and with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees, shall appoint all officers of the village whose appointments
are not otherwise provided for by law and whenever a vacancy shall occur in any
office which, by statute or ordinance, the President is authorized to fill, the
President shall, at a regular meeting of the Board, communicate to the Board
the name of an appointee to the office and, pending the concurrence of the
Board in the appointment, may designate some suitable person to discharge the
duties of the office.
   (C)   Removal of officers for cause. Except where otherwise provided by
statute, the President may remove any officer appointed by him or her on any
formal charges whenever the President is of the opinion that the interests of
the village demand removal. The President shall report the reasons for the
removal to the Board at a meeting held not less than five, nor more than ten,
days after the removal. If the President fails or refuses to report to the
Board of Trustees the reasons for the removal or if the Board, by a two-thirds
vote of all of its members authorized by law to be elected, disapproves of the
removal, the officer, thereupon shall be restored to the office from which
removal occurred. The vote shall be by yeas and nays and shall be entered in
the minutes. In the event of restoration, the officer shall give a new bond and
take a new oath of office. No officer shall be removed a second time for the
same offense.
   (D)   Approval and veto of ordinances. The President shall carefully inspect
all ordinances passed by the Board and fix his or her official signature to
such as he or she may approve, and return them to the Village Clerk. Such
ordinances as the President shall not approve shall be returned to the Board,
with the President’s objections thereto in writing, at the next regular meeting
of the Board, occurring not less than five days after the passage thereof. The
veto may extend to any one or more items or appropriations contained in any
ordinance making appropriations or to the entire ordinance. In case the veto
only extends to a part of the ordinance, the rest thereof shall take effect and
be in force. In case the President shall fail to return any ordinance with his
or her objections thereto by the time aforesaid, the President shall be deemed
to have approved the ordinance and it shall take effect accordingly.
   (E)   Resolutions and motions; approved, veto. All resolutions or motions:
      (1)   Which create any liability against the village;
      (2)   Which provide for the expenditure or appropriation of the village’s
money; or
      (3)   To sell any village property passed by the Board of Trustees shall
be deposited with the Village Clerk. If the President approves them, he or she
shall sign them. Those of which the President disapproves shall be returned to
the Board, with the President’s objections thereto in writing, at the next
regular meeting of the Board, occurring not less than five days after the
passage thereof. The veto may extend to any one or more items or appropriations
contained in any resolutions and motion, the rest thereof shall take effect and
be in force. In case the President shall fail to return any resolution and
motion with his or her objections thereto by the time aforesaid, the President
shall be deemed to have approved the resolution and motion and it shall take
effect accordingly.
   (F)   Sign commissions. The President shall issue certificates of
appointments to all persons appointed to office. The certificates shall be
issued under the corporate seal or the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk shall
sign the certificates also.
   (G)   Sign warrants. The President shall sign all warrants drawn upon the
Village Treasurer. The warrant shall state the particular fund and the
appropriation to which the warrant shall be chargeable and the person to whom
payable. The Village Clerk and Village Treasurer shall countersign the warrant.
   (H)   Sign licenses. The President shall sign all licenses and permits
granted, issued or ordered by the Board or authorized by ordinance and may
revoke any license or permit for causes provided by statute or ordinance.
   (I)   Examine records. The President may, at any time, examine and inspect
the books, records and papers of any agent, employee or officer of the village.
   (J)   Recommendations to the Board. Annually, the President shall give the
Board of Trustees information relative to the affairs of the village. From time
to time, the President may recommend for Board consideration the measures he or
she believes expedient.
   (K)   Administration of oaths. The President shall have power to administer
oaths and affirmations upon all lawful occasions.
   (L)   Call for special election. In the event there is a vacancy in an
elective office and if, for any reason, there is not a quorum in office of the
corporate authorities, the President may call for a special election to fill
the vacancy and, at the time of calling the special election, the President
shall appoint the time and place, give notice thereof and appoint the judges of
the election.
   (M)   Execute leases. The President shall have the power to execute, on
behalf of the village, all leases entered into by the corporate authorities.
   (N)   Rebate taxes. The President shall have the power, together with the
Village Clerk, to execute, on behalf of the village, all deeds of conveyance of
real estate to those parties purchasing the real estate after the purchase
price has been paid or secured; provided, the deed of conveyance shall state
the purchase price of the property and be under the corporate seal.
   (O)   Liquor Control Commissioner. The Village President shall be the Liquor
Control Commissioner of the village and perform those duties stated in the
Liquor Control Ordinance, set out in Ch. 111 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 30.051) (Ord. 72-9, passed 4-9-1973)
§ 30.032 DESIGNEES.
   (A)   The Village President shall settle any question as to the respective
powers or duties of any appointed officer of the village.
   (B)   The President shall have the power, with advice and consent of the
Board, to delegate to any officer any duty which is to be performed when no
specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(Prior Code, § 30.052) (Ord. 72-9, passed 4-9-1973)
§ 30.033 BOND; SALARY; TITLE.
   (A)   Before entering the duties of office, the Village President shall have
a bond with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees, conditioned upon
faithful performance of duties, in the sum of $25,000. The President shall take
the oath of office as prescribed by statute and shall receive compensation as
may be set from time to time by the Board.
   (B)   The President may also be referred to as “Mayor” in all matters
relating to the village.
   (C)   The President shall receive the compensation that is established by
the Board of Trustees in the annual appropriation or budget ordinance or by
special ordinance. An increase or decrease in the salary of the President shall
not take effect during the term for which that President is elected. His or her
salary shall be fixed at least two months before an election in which voting is
held for his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 30.053) (Ord. 72-9, passed 4-9-1973; Ord. 84-10, passed 12-10-
1984; Ord. 88-6, passed 11-28-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Fixing salaries, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-50-10
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.045 ELECTION; DUTIES.
   The Board of Trustees, consisting of six members, shall be elected to office
for a four-year term according to the method provided by statute. This Board
shall be the legislative department of the village government and shall perform
the duties and have the powers as may be delegated to it by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.060)
§ 30.046 OATH AND SALARY.
   (A)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall take the oath of office
prescribed by statute.
   (B)   The position of Trustee shall be compensated at a rate as set by the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 30.061) (Ord. 74-12, passed 3-10-1975; Ord. 84-10, passed 12-10-
1984; Ord. 88-6, passed 11-28-1988)
§ 30.047 TIME AND PLACE OF MEETINGS; SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall convene, unless
otherwise publicized pursuant to law, at 6:00 p.m. on the second and fourth
Tuesdays of each month. No further notice of regular meetings shall be
required.
   (B)   The President or any three Trustees may call special meetings of the
Board of Trustees. In addition to any notice requirement prescribed by the
Board of Trustees, public notice of meetings must be given as prescribed in
ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, §§ 2.02 and 2.03, of the Open Meetings Act.
(Prior Code, § 30.062) (Ord. 89-17, passed 1-8-1990; Ord. 00-08, passed 11-20-
2000; Ord. 16-11, passed 5-24-2016; Ord. 19-09, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 20-01,
passed 1-28-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-25
§ 30.048 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Village President shall be the presiding officer of all regular
and special meetings of the Board of Trustees and at all times when the Board
meets as a committee of the whole.
   (B)   The President shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion,
except:
      (1)   Where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie;
      (2)   Where one-half the Trustees have voted in favor of an ordinance,
resolution or motion even though there is no tie vote; or
      (3)   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
is required by this code to adopt an ordinance, resolution or motion.
(Prior Code, § 30.063)
§ 30.049 RESCINDED ACTION.
   No vote or action of the Board of Trustees shall be rescinded at any special
meeting of the Board unless there is present at the special meetings as many
members of the Board as were present at the meeting when the vote or action was
taken, as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.064)
§ 30.050 RESOLUTIONS.
   Any resolutions submitted to the Board of Trustees shall be reduced to
writing before being voted upon, on request of any two members of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 30.065)
§ 30.051 ADDRESSING MEETINGS.
   (A)   Right to speak. The Illinois Open Meetings Act, Section 2.06(g)
provides that "Any person shall be permitted an opportunity to address public
officials under the rules established and recorded by the public body."
   (B)   Public comment. Persons desiring to address the Board or Trustees
("Board") will do so during the public comment period on the agenda of the
Board Meeting. At least 15 minutes will be allowed at each meeting for public
comment(s). Public comments at other times during the meeting will be permitted
solely at the discretion of the Board.
   (C)   Participation procedure.
      (1)   Persons wishing to speak may do so only after being recognized for
that purpose by the Chairperson.
      (2)   Only one person may address the Board at a time.
      (3)   No more than five persons shall be permitted to speak at any given
meeting.
      (4)   A signup sheet shall be prominently displayed on the speaker's
platform prior to the meeting.
      (5)   The Board may, without creating precedent and in its sole
discretion, expand the numbers of those permitted to speak, at any given
meeting.
   (D)   Public participation.
      (1)   Persons addressing the Board shall identify themselves for the
record, and for the Board and members of the public also attending the meeting.
      (2)   Persons addressing the Board will offer all comments in a courteous
and professional manner, and refrain from use of inappropriate, offensive or
profane language.
      (3)   Persons addressing the Board may comment on issues of public
interest relating to the operations of the village. The Board will not respond
nor engage in debate or discussion relating to comments offered or made. The
public comment period is intended to afford members of the public with an
opportunity to express their views to the respective board. The Board will
generally take comments made to it by speakers under advisement.
      (4)   Residents of the village addressing the Board will be limited to a
period of no more than three minutes for comments, unless additional time is
granted by the Chairperson; after which they will return to their seat in an
orderly, quiet and non-disruptive manner.
      (5)   Non-Residents of the village addressing the Board will be limited
to a period no more than one minute for comments, unless additional time is
granted by the Chairperson; after which they will return to their seat in an
orderly, quiet and non-disruptive manner.
      (6)   The granting of additional time to one or more persons or on one or
more occasions does not entitle other persons at that meeting or any other
meetings to have additional time to address the Board.
      (7)   Persons addressing the Board should refrain from offering
repetitive or duplicative comments which offer no new information or
perspective and which otherwise impede progress of the stated and published
purpose of the meeting. Such comments may be limited at the sole discretion of
the Board.
      (8)   No person shall be permitted to address the same topic more than
once within a three month period unless otherwise permitted by the Board.
   (E)   Misconduct.
      (1)   All persons addressing the Board must do so in a civil and
appropriate manner. Rude or abusive behavior will not be condoned. Comments
that are defamatory, disparaging, or otherwise constitute an unwarranted
invasion of privacy will not be allowed. Persons in violation of the foregoing
will be directed by the Chair of the meeting to leave the meeting.
      (2)   Persons addressing the Board will refrain from comments, gestures,
or other verbal or non-verbal communications when not recognized to offer
public comment. The Chairperson is charged with enforcing orderly decorum at
meetings to enable effective and efficient consideration by the Board of the
stated and published purpose of the meeting; to that end the Chairperson will
request person(s) causing disruptive conduct to cease such conduct.
      (3)   In the event public comment or behavior at the meeting becomes
disruptive to the Board's effective and efficient conduct of the meeting, the
Chairperson may recess the meeting until such time that conditions are
conducive to resume conduct of the business of the public body. If the
disturbance is particularly egregious, the Chairperson may recess the meeting
to reconvene at a designated time, date and place. The proposition by the
Chairperson to recess or to recess and reconvene at a later time, date and
place shall be approved by the Board. If taken, the decision to recess shall be
recorded in the minutes, along with the vote of the Board and a statement as to
the cause of the disruption necessitating the recess.
(Prior Code, § 30.066) (Ord. 19-23, passed 11-26-2019)
§ 30.052 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may be suspended
at any time by the consent of a majority of the members present at any meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.067)
§ 30.053 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern the deliberations of the Board of
Trustees, except when in conflict with any of the foregoing rules.
(Prior Code, § 30.068)
§ 30.054 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum
to do business, but no ordinance shall be passed, except upon the favorable
vote of a majority of the elected members, as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.069)
§ 30.055 STANDING COMMITTEES; SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following shall be the standing committees of the Board of
Trustees:
      (1)   Buildings and Grounds;
      (2)   Finance;
      (3)   Health;
      (4)   License;
      (5)   Police and Fire; and
      (6)   Water.
   (B)   Special committees shall be created from time to time as directed by
the Board.
   (C)   All standing and special committees shall consist of three members
each, including the chairperson, unless the Board shall direct otherwise.
   (D)   All committees shall be appointed by the Village President.
(Prior Code, § 30.070)
§ 30.056 DISTURBING MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any meeting of the Board of
Trustees or of any committee thereof.
(Prior Code, § 30.071) Penalty, see §
30.999
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 30.070 ELECTION; TERM; VACANCY.
   At every other election for Trustees, a Clerk shall also be elected who
shall hold office for a four-year term. Whenever a vacancy in the office of a
Clerk elected under this section occurs during the term, the vacancy shall be
filled for the remainder of the term at the next general village election, as
provided by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-50. During the period from the time
that the vacancy occurs until a Clerk is elected, as provided in this section,
and has qualified, the vacancy may be filled by the appointment of an Acting
Clerk by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-25-90) (Prior Code, § 30.080)
§ 30.071 BOND.
   (A)   Before entering upon the duties of Village Clerk, the Clerk-elect
shall execute a bond in the amount provided by statute, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the Clerk’s duties.
   (B)   Before entering upon the duties of Village Collector, as is authorized
under ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3.1-30-15, 3.1-35-120 and 3.1-35-130, the Clerk
shall give bond with surety in the amount to be fixed by the Board of Trustees
conditioned for the faithful discharge of the Collector’s duties. The bond
shall be filed with the Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 30.081)
§ 30.072 SIGNATURES.
   The Village Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the village and all
licenses, permits and other documents that require it.
(Prior Code, § 30.082)
§ 30.073 MONEY COLLECTED.
   The Village Clerk promptly shall turn over to the Village Treasurer all
money received on behalf of the village, and shall provide a statement as to
the money’s source.
(Prior Code, § 30.083)
§ 30.074 ACCOUNTS.
   The Village Clerk shall keep accounts showing all money received, and the
source and disposition of it, and other accounts as may be required by statute
or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 30.084)
§ 30.075 RECORDS.
   In addition to the record of ordinances and other records the Village Clerk
is required by statute to keep, the Clerk shall keep a register of all licenses
and permits issued and the payments thereon; a record showing all the officers
and regular employees of the village; and other records as may be required by
the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 30.085)
§ 30.076 KEEPER OF VILLAGE SEAL.
   The Village Clerk shall be the custodian of the village seal and shall affix
its impression on documents whenever required.
(Prior Code, § 30.086)
Cross-reference:
   Village seal, see §
11.01
§ 30.077 VILLAGE COLLECTOR.
   (A)   As is authorized under ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-15, the Village
Clerk shall act as Village Collector and the term shall expire with the Clerk’s
term.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Collector shall have the power conferred by and
shall perform the duties imposed upon the Collector by statute or ordinance.
      (2)   The Collector shall keep a complete set of books and records of all
money he or she received and disbursed.
   (C)   The Village Collector also shall keep, in suitable books for the
purpose described in division (B) above, an accurate and detailed account of
each special assessment or special tax levied for any improvement and when it
shall appear from the books that all costs and expense of any improvement which
has been made by special assessment have been paid and satisfied, and that
there has been a large sum of money collected over and above the entire cost of
the improvement, the Collector shall report to the Village President and Board
of Trustees that fact and state, in writing, the amount of the excess.
   (D)   The Village Collector also shall keep an account of all rebates on
special assessment ordered by the Board, issue warrants therefor to the
respective parties entitled thereto and shall keep an account of the same and
whenever the full amount of any rebate has been paid, the Collector shall
report the fact to the President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 30.087)
§ 30.078 SALARY.
   (A)   The position of Village Clerk shall receive a salary as set by the
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The position of Village Collector shall receive a salary as set by the
Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The two positions mentioned above shall be administered by the same
elected person, and that person shall work no less than 35 hours per week
fulfilling both positions.
(Prior Code, § 30.088) (Ord. 92-9, passed 12-21-1992)
DEPUTY VILLAGE CLERK
§ 30.090 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Deputy Village Clerk, whom shall
be appointed by the President and Board of Trustees as provided by Illinois
statute.
   (B)   The term of the office shall be one for a period of one year
commencing on May 1 and ending April 30 of the following year.
(Ord. 02-17, passed 4-23-2002; Ord. 21-18, passed 8-10-2021)
§ 30.091 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of Deputy Village Clerk, the Deputy Clerk
shall execute a bond in the amount set forth by the Village Board but in any
event said bond shall not be less than the amount required of the Village
Clerk.
(Ord. 02-17, passed 4-23-2002; Ord. 21-18, passed 8-10-2021)
§ 30.092 DUTIES.
   The Deputy Village Clerk shall serve in the Office of the Village Clerk and
under the direct supervision and direction of the Village Clerk. Additionally,
the duties and responsibilities of the Deputy Village Clerk shall be
specifically defined by the Village Clerk and may from time to time be modified
by the Village Clerk in order to best service the interests of the Office of
Village Clerk.
(Ord. 02-17, passed 4-23-2002; Ord. 21-18, passed 8-10-2021)
§ 30.093 SALARY.
   An annual stipend of $2,500 will be added to the salary of the Deputy
Village Clerk.
(Ord. 21-18, passed 8-10-2021)
TREASURER
§ 30.105 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the Office of Village Treasurer, who shall be
appointed by the Village President and Board of Trustees, as provided by
statute. The Treasurer shall serve for one year.
(Prior Code, § 30.100)
§ 30.106 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of office, the Village Treasurer shall give
a bond in the sum required by the Board of Trustees. The amount of the bond
shall not be less than that required by statute. The bond shall be conditioned
upon the faithful performance of duties by the Treasurer and shall be
conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss by reason of any neglect of
duty or any act of the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 30.101)
§ 30.107 DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Treasurer shall receive all money belonging to the village
and shall keep his or her books and accounts in the manner prescribed by
ordinance. These books and accounts shall always be subject to the inspection
of any member of the Board of Trustees; provided, however, that, the village
may, by ordinance, designate a person or institution which, as bond trustee,
shall receive from the County Collector amounts payable to the village as taxes
levied pursuant to a bond issuance.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debits and credits belonging thereto.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall give every person paying money into the
treasury a receipt, specifying the date of payment and upon what account paid.
The Treasurer shall file copies of these receipts with the Clerk, with the
Treasurer’s monthly reports. If the Treasurer has in his or her possession
money properly appropriated to the payment of any warrant lawfully drawn upon
him or her, the Treasurer shall pay the money specified in this warrant to the
person designated by the warrant.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-40)
   (B)   At the end of every month, and more often if required by the Board of
Trustees, the Treasurer shall render an account under oath to the Board of
Trustees, or to an officer designated by ordinance, showing the state of the
treasury at the date of the account and the balance of money in the treasury.
The Treasurer shall accompany the account with a statement of all money
received into the treasury and on what account, together with all warrants
redeemed and paid by him or her. On the day he or she renders an account, these
warrants, with all vouchers held by him or her, shall be delivered to the Clerk
and filed, together with the account, in the Clerk’s office. All paid warrants
shall be marked “paid”. The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants,
which shall describe each warrant, showing its date, amount and number, the
fund from which paid, the name of the person to whom paid and when paid.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-45)
   (C)   (1)   The Treasurer may be required to keep all funds and money in his
or her custody belonging to the village in the places of deposit designated by
ordinance. When requested by the Treasurer, the Board of Trustees shall
designate one or more banks or savings and loan associations in which may be
kept the funds and money of the village in the custody of the Treasurer. When a
bank or savings and loan association has been designated as a depository, it
shall continue as a depository until ten days have elapsed after a new
depository is designated and has qualified by furnishing the statements of
resources and liabilities as required by this section. When a new depository is
designated, the Board of Trustees shall notify the sureties of the Treasurer of
that fact in writing at least five days before the transfer of funds. The
Treasurer shall be discharged from responsibility for all funds or money which
he or she deposits in a designated bank or savings and loan association while
the funds and money are so deposited.
      (2)   The Treasurer may require any bank or savings and loan association
to deposit with the Treasurer securities or mortgages which have a market value
at least equal to the amount of the funds or moneys of the village deposited
with the bank or savings and loan association that exceeds the insurance
limitation provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
      (3)   The Treasurer is authorized to enter into agreements of any
definite or indefinite term regarding the deposit, redeposit, investment,
reinvestment or withdrawal of village funds.
      (4)   The Treasurer is permitted to combine moneys from more than one
fund of the village for the purpose of investing the funds, and join with other
municipal treasurers or municipalities for the purpose of investing the village
funds of which the Treasurer has custody. Joint investments shall be made only
in investments authorized by law for the investment of municipal funds. When
moneys of more than one fund of the village or moneys of more than one
municipality are combined for investment purposes, the moneys combined for that
purpose shall be accounted for separately in all respects, and the earnings
from investments shall be separately and individually computed, recorded and
credited to the fund or municipality, as the case may be, for which the
investment was acquired.
      (5)   No bank or savings and loan association shall receive public funds
as permitted by this section unless it has complied with the requirements
established by ILCS Ch. 30, Act 235, § 6.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-50)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village and in his
or her custody separate and distinct from his or her own money and shall not
use, either directly or indirectly, the village’s money or warrants for the
personal use and benefit of the Treasurer or of any other person. Any violation
of this provision shall subject him or her to immediate removal from office by
the Board of Trustees, who may declare the Treasurer’s office vacant.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-55)
   (E)   The Treasurer shall report to the Board of Trustees, as often as it
requires, a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures of the
village, as shown by his or her books, up to the time of the report.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-60)
   (F)   All money received on any special assessment shall be held by the
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and the money shall be used for no other
purpose, except to reimburse the village for money expended for the
improvement.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-85)
   (G)   (1)   The Treasurer may deposit funds in a savings and loan
association, savings bank, or state or national bank in the state, or deposit
those funds into demand deposit accounts in accordance with ILCS Ch. 30, Act
235, § 6.5 of the Public Funds Investment Act. When deposits become collected
funds and are not needed for immediate disbursement, they shall be invested
within two working days at prevailing rates or better. The Treasurer may
require the bank, savings bank, or savings and loan association to deposit with
him or her securities guaranteed by agencies and instrumentalities of the
federal government equal in market value to the amount by which the funds
deposited exceed the federally insured amount. The Treasurer may accept as
security for public funds deposited in such bank, savings bank, or savings and
loan association any securities or other eligible collateral authorized by
Sections 11 and 11.1 of the Deposit of State Moneys Act or Section 6 of the
Public Funds Investment Act. The Treasurer is authorized to enter into an
agreement with any bank, savings bank, or savings and loan association, with
any federally insured financial institution or trust company, or with any
agency of the U.S. government relating to the deposit of such securities.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall be discharged from responsibility for any funds
for which securities are so deposited with him or her, and the funds for which
securities are so deposited shall not be subject to any otherwise applicable
limitation as to amount.
      (3)   No bank, savings bank, or savings and loan association shall
receive public funds as permitted by this section, unless it has complied with
the requirements established pursuant to ILCS Ch. 30, Act 235, § 6 or is
otherwise exempt from compliance as authorized by ILCS Ch. 30, Act 235, § 6.5
of that Act.
(ILCS Ch. 30, Act 225, § 1)
(Prior Code, § 30.102)
Cross-reference:
   Depositories for village funds, see §
35.009
ATTORNEY
§ 30.120 OFFICE ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Village Attorney, an executive
office of the village.
   (B)   The Attorney shall be appointed by the President and Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 30.115)
§ 30.121 SPECIAL COUNSEL.
   The President, with the consent of the Board of Trustees, may, from time to
time, retain an attorney to represent or advise the village on legal matters if
no Village Attorney has been appointed and he or she may likewise retain
special counsel to advise or represent the village on special matters or to
assist the Village Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 30.116)
§ 30.122 SUITS AND ACTIONS.
   The Village Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions
at law or equity to which the village may be a party, be interested or which
may be brought against or by any officer of the village on behalf of the
village or in the capacity of the person as an officer of the village.
(Prior Code, § 30.117)
§ 30.123 JUDGEMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to see to the full enforcement
of all judgements or decrees entered in favor of the village and of all similar
interlocutory orders.
(Prior Code, § 30.118)
§ 30.124 ADVICE.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the village and
shall render service on all legal questions affecting it whenever requested to
do so by any village official.
   (B)   Upon request by the Village President or Board of Trustees, the
Attorney shall reduce any opinion to writing.
(Prior Code, § 30.119)
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 30.135 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the position of Building Inspector, who shall be
appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 30.130)
§ 30.136 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to see to the enforcement of
all the provisions of this code and any other ordinances of the village
relating to buildings or zoning and to inspect all buildings or structures
being constructed or altered, as frequently as may be necessary to ensure
compliance with this code and any other applicable ordinance of the village.
(Prior Code, § 30.131)
§ 30.137 STOP ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall have the power to order all work stopped
on construction, alteration or repair of buildings in the village when the work
is being done in violation of any provision of this code or any other ordinance
of the village relating thereto or in violation of the Zoning Code. Work shall
not be resumed after the issuance of an order, except on the written permission
of the Building Inspector; provided, if the stop order is an oral one, it shall
be followed by a written stop order within the hour.
   (B)   A stop order may be served by any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 30.132) Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.138 ENTRY POWER.
   The Building Inspector shall have the power to make or cause to be made an
entry in any building or premises where the work of altering, repairing or
constructing of any building or structure is going on, for the purpose of
making inspections, at any reasonable hour.
(Prior Code, § 30.133)
PLUMBING INSPECTOR; ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR
§ 30.150 OFFICES ESTABLISHED.
   There are hereby created the positions of Plumbing Inspector and Electrical
Inspector, each of whom shall be appointed by the Village President and Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 30.145)
§ 30.151 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Plumbing Inspector and the Electrical Inspector
to see to the enforcement of all code or ordinance provisions relating to
plumbing and electrical installations in all buildings being constructed or
altered as frequently as may be necessary to comply with this code and any
other applicable ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 30.146)
§ 30.152 STOP ORDER.
   The Plumbing Inspector and Electrical Inspector each shall have the power to
stop all work being done on any plumbing or electrical installations when any
work is being done in violation of any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the village relating thereto. Work shall not be resumed after the
issuance of an order, except with permission of the Plumbing Inspector or
Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 30.147) Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.153 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION.
   No certificate of occupancy shall be granted for the use and occupancy of
any premises until the Plumbing Inspector and the Electrical Inspector shall
have indicated in writing to the Building Inspector that all plumbing and all
electrical work has been satisfactorily completed.
(Prior Code, § 30.148)
§ 30.154 ENTRY POWER.
   The Plumbing Inspector and Electrical Inspector shall have the power to make
or cause to be made an entry into any building or premises where plumbing or
electrical installations are being made, for the purpose of making inspections,
at any reasonable hour.
(Prior Code, § 30.149)
HEALTH OFFICER
§ 30.165 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Health Officer, an executive
office of the village.
   (B)   The Health Officer shall be appointed by the Village President and
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 30.160)
§ 30.166 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village Health Officer shall enforce all ordinances containing
provisions for the protection of public health. He or she shall inspect
foodstuffs and the premises used for storing or selling provisions, as may be
provided by this code or any other applicable ordinance of the village.
   (B)   The Health Officer shall perform other duties and functions as may be
required by this code or any other applicable statute or ordinance.
   (C)   The Health Officer shall enforce all the rules and orders of the Board
of Health and shall attend meetings of that Board when requested to do so by
the presiding officer.
(Prior Code, § 30.161)
§ 30.167 REPORTS.
   (A)   The Health Officer shall make reports to the Board of Trustees as may
be required.
   (B)   The Health Officer also shall make recommendations for rulings, orders
or ordinances respecting public health whenever he or she is request to do so
or whenever he or she deems it advisable or necessary.
(Prior Code, § 30.162)
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 30.180 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Director of Public Works, an
executive office of the village.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works shall be appointed by the Village
President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 30.180)
§ 30.181 DUTIES.
   (A)   Streets. The Director of Public Works shall have charge of the
construction and care of all public streets, alleys and sidewalks in the
village and with keeping the same clean. The Director shall ensure all gutters
and drains function properly and are kept free from defects.
   (B)   Sewers. The Director shall have charge and custody of the sanitary and
storm sewers systems in the village and shall ensure they are kept in good
repair and function properly.
   (C)   Lighting. The Director shall supervise the lighting of the public
streets and alleys and shall keep the lighting system in efficient operation
and good repair.
   (D)   Water. The Director shall have charge of the care, functioning and
maintenance of the village water works and waster distribution systems.
   (E)   Employees. All officers and employees assigned to the Department of
Public Works shall perform their duties subject to the orders and supervision
of the Director.
   (F)   Property. The Director shall be the custodian of all property of the
village which is not assigned to the care or custody of any other officer.
(Prior Code, § 30.181)
DIRECTOR OF MAINTENANCE AND ENGINEERING
§ 30.195 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   The position of Director of Maintenance and Engineering is hereby
established.
(Prior Code, § 30.190) (Ord. 82-10, passed 4-25-1983)
§ 30.196 APPOINTMENT.
   The Director of Maintenance and Engineering shall be an officer of the
village, appointed on an annual basis by the Village President and approved by
the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 30.191) (Ord. 82-10, passed 4-25-1983)
§ 30.197 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Director of Maintenance and Engineering shall be responsible for
the maintenance and repair of all village-owned vehicles.
   (B)   At the request of the Director of Public Works, the Director of
Maintenance and Engineering may assist the Public Works Department in the
repair and maintenance of various village-owned mechanical equipment.
   (C)   The Director of Maintenance and Engineering shall serve as a
consultant to the Village President’s office with respect to the planning and
implementation of public works projects, buildings and construction.
(Prior Code, § 30.192) (Ord. 82-10, passed 4-25-1983)
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY
§ 30.210 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   The position of Director of Public Safety is hereby created.
(Prior Code, § 30.200) (Ord. 91-5, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 30.211 CHIEF OF POLICE TO BE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   The position of Director of Public Safety shall be filled by the Chief of
Police.
(Prior Code, § 30.201) (Ord. 91-5, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 30.212 DUTIES.
   The Director of Public Safety shall assume all of the duties of the Chief of
Police and Chief of the Fire Department, including, but not limited to, those
duties which are prescribed by this code and the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
(Prior Code, § 30.202) (Ord. 91-5, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 30.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
30.013 or
30.014 shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $100, for each offense.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
30.032 shall be fined not less than $1, nor more than $10, for each offense.
   (C)   Any Treasurer who fails, neglects or refuses to discharge any duty
imposed on him or her as of §
30.107, or who violates any provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3.1-35-65
through 3.1-35-80, is guilty of a petty offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100, in addition to any other
penalties prescribed by law.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-80)
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall continue work in violation
of a stop order of the Building Commissioner, as provided in §
30.137, shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $200, for each day
during or on which any work in violation of the stop order is done.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall continue work in violation
of a stop order of the Plumbing Inspector or Electrical Inspector, as provided
in §
30.152, shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $200, for each day
during or on which any work in violation of the stop order is done.
(Prior Code, § 30.999)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Board of Local Improvements
   
31.01   Appointments
   
31.02   Duties
Board of Appeals
   
31.15   Appointment
   
31.16   Term
   
31.17   Duties
Youth Commission
   
31.30   Title
   
31.31   Appointments; vacancies
   
31.32   Purpose
   
31.33   Membership
   
31.34   Officers; officers’ duties
Department of Public Safety
   
31.45   Creation
   
31.46   Director and Assistant Director
   
31.47   Division of Police
   
31.48   Division of Fire
   
31.49   Division of Code Enforcement
   
31.50   Communications Division
Fire and Police Commissioners
   
31.65   Members
   
31.66   Rules and regulations
   
31.67   Reimbursement agreement
 
   
31.99   Penalty
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENTS.
   There is hereby established the Board of Local Improvements for the village,
which shall consist of the Village President and all members of the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 DUTIES.
   The Board of Local Improvements shall have the powers and perform the duties
assigned by statute or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 31.15 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created a Board of Appeals for zoning matters, which shall
consist of seven members to be appointed by the Village President with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. One member of the Board of Appeals
shall be designated as Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 31.10)
§ 31.16 TERM.
   The members of the Board of Appeals shall be appointed to serve for a term
of four years.
(Prior Code, § 31.11)
§ 31.17 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals shall pass upon all appeals from the Building
Inspector and from any other board or officer of the village on questions of
zoning and shall have other powers and duties as may be delegated to it by
statute or ordinance. A concurring vote of four members shall be necessary to
reverse any decision of the Building Inspector, as required by statute.
   (B)   The Board shall meet at the times as it may determine upon the call of
the Chairperson; it shall keep records of its official actions.
(Prior Code, § 31.12)
YOUTH COMMISSION
§ 31.30 TITLE.
   This Commission shall be known as the “Stone Park Youth Commission”.
(Prior Code, § 31.20) (Ord. 73-7, passed 2-11-1974)
§ 31.31 APPOINTMENTS; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The officers of the Youth Commission are to be appointed annually by
the Village President, with ratification by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Appointments to the Commission shall be made before, and become
effective on, May 1 of each year.
   (C)   Vacancies are to be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 31.21) (Ord. 73-7, passed 2-11-1974)
§ 31.32 PURPOSE.
   The Youth Commission is a non-profit organization which comprises a
committee that is organized solely for the purpose of establishing and
coordinating activities for the youth of the village.
(Prior Code, § 31.22) (Ord. 73-7, passed 2-11-1974)
§ 31.33 MEMBERSHIP.
   Membership in the Youth Commission is open to any responsible adult who is
sympathetic to the Commission’s aims, aware of local needs and desirous of
meeting these needs.
(Prior Code, § 31.23) (Ord. 73-7, passed 2-11-1974)
§ 31.34 OFFICERS; OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   (A)   Chairperson.
      (1)   The Chairperson’s duties are to preside at all meetings of the
Youth Commission and to regulate these meetings in an amicable manner.
      (2)   The Chairperson shall render assistance as may be necessary to any
of the Commission’s officers.
      (3)   The Chairperson shall call any special meetings when deemed
necessary.
   (B)   Secretary.
      (1)   The Secretary shall keep minutes of proceedings of the Commission.
      (2)   The Secretary shall maintain a list of all members and shall keep a
roll of all those present at the beginning of each meeting.
      (3)   The Secretary shall preserve all papers entrusted to him or her
and, when unable to attend a meeting, the Secretary should ensure those papers
are properly given another officer in attendance.
   (C)   Treasurer.
      (1)   The Treasurer shall handle all pecuniary details of the Commission.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall receive in trust all money and funds due or
payable to the Commission and allocate that money or those funds as authorized
by the Commission.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall keep accurate accounts of all money paid and
received by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 31.24) (Ord. 73-7, passed 2-11-1974)
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
§ 31.45 CREATION.
   The village hereby creates a Public Safety Department which shall supervise,
direct and create policy and procedure for the following divisions and their
related personnel: Division of Police, Division of Fire, Division of Code
Enforcement and the Communication Division, as diagramed, indicated and set
forth by the managerial flow chart, which is attached to Ord. 03-01 and made a
part hereof as Exhibit A.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-14-2003)
§ 31.46 DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR.
   (A)   There shall be one Director of Public Safety appointed by the Mayor
with advice and consent of the Board of Trustees who shall supervise and direct
all of the personnel within the Department of Public Safety and whose
additional duties and job description shall be set forth by the Mayor and Board
of Trustees and may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   There shall be one Assistant Director of Public Safety appointed by
the Mayor with advice and consent of the Board of Trustees whose immediate
supervisor shall be the Director of Public Safety and whose duties and job
description shall be set forth by the Director of Public Safety and may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-14-2003)
§ 31.47 DIVISION OF POLICE.
   (A)   Responsibilities and duties of the Division of Police.
      (1)   The Division of Police shall be the division designated with and
primarily concerned with those duties commonly referred to as “police matters”.
      (2)   The Division of Police shall be required to perform all duties as
set forth by state statute and village codes and ordinances.
      (3)   Any and all duties as directed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   Required personnel.
      (1)   There shall be one Commander of Police appointed by the Mayor with
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
         (a)   The duties and job description of the Commander of Police shall
be set forth by the Director of Public Safety and which may be amended from
time to time.
         (b)   The Commander of Police shall only have supervisory authority
over those individuals within his or her Division.
         (c)   The Commander of Police shall report directly to the Assistant
Director of Public Safety whom shall have immediate supervisory authority over
the Commander of Police.
      (2)   There shall be one full-time Lieutenant(s) who shall perform the
duties as set forth by the Director of Public Safety, Commander of Police and/
or the Village Police Department’s rules and regulations.
      (3)   There shall be five full-time Sergeant(s) promoted to the rank by
the Mayor and Village Board pursuant to village ordinance and the rules and
regulations of the Village of Stone Park Fire and Police Board who shall
perform the duties as set forth by the Director of Public Safety, Commander of
Police and/or the Village Police Department’s rules and regulations.
      (4)   There shall be 12 full-time patrolpersons, referred to as “police
officers”, hired by the Mayor and Board of Trustees pursuant to the village
ordinance and the rules and regulations of the Village Fire and Police Board
who shall perform the duties as set forth by the Director of Public Safety,
Commander of Police, their supervisory personnel and the Village Police
Department’s rules and regulations.
      (5)   There shall be up to six part-time patrol officers, referred to as
“police officers”, appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees and who shall perform the duties as set forth by the Director
of Public Safety, Commander of Police, their supervisory personnel and the
Village Police Department’s rules and regulations.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-14-2003)
§ 31.48 DIVISION OF FIRE.
   (A)   Responsibilities and duties of Department.
      (1)   The Division of Fire shall be required to perform all duties and
related duties as set forth by state statute and village codes and ordinances.
      (2)   Any and all other duties as directed by the Director of Public
Safety.
   (B)   Required personnel.
      (1)   There shall be one Commander of the Division of Fire appointed by
the Mayor with advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
         (a)   The Commander of the Division of Fire shall have those duties
and job description as set forth by the Director of Public Safety and which may
be amended from time to time.
         (b)   The Commander of the Division of Fire shall only have
supervisory authority over those individuals within his or her Division.
         (c)   The Commander of the Division of Fire shall report directly to
the Assistant Director of Public Safety who shall have immediate supervisory
authority over the Commander of Fire.
      (2)   Firefighters in sufficient number shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees as deemed necessary by the
Director of Public Safety and Commander of the Division of Fire.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-14-2003)
§ 31.49 DIVISION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Responsibilities and duties of the Division.
      (1)   The Division of Code Enforcement is a separate and distinct village
division with its own responsibilities and personnel that shall be deployed
pursuant to the direction of the Director of Public Safety and the Commander of
the Code Enforcement Division.
      (2)   The Division of Code Enforcement shall be required to perform all
duties and related duties as set forth by state statute and village codes and
ordinances with the primary responsibility and emphasis on the enforcement of
all village ordinance.
      (3)   Any and all duties as directed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   Required personnel.
      (1)   There shall be one Commander of Code Enforcement appointed by the
Mayor with advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
         (a)   The Commander of Code Enforcement’s duties and job description
shall be set forth by the Director of Public Safety which may be amended from
time to time.
         (b)   The Commander of the Code Enforcement Division shall only have
supervisory authority over those individuals within his or her Division.
         (c)   The Commander of the Code Enforcement Division shall report
directly to the Assistant Director of Public Safety who shall have immediate
supervisory authority over the Commander of the Code Enforcement Division.
      (2)   There shall be two part-time Code Enforcement Officers with the
rank of Sergeant appointed to that rank by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees that report directly to the Commander of Code
Enforcement and whose duties are set forth by the Director of Public Safety.
      (3)   Upon request from the Director of Public Safety, the Mayor, with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, may appoint up to ten Code
Enforcement Officers referred to as “Code Enforcement Officers” to perform the
duties as designated by the Director of Public Safety.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-14-2003)
§ 31.50 COMMUNICATIONS DIVISION.
   (A)   Responsibilities and duties of Division.
      (1)   The Communications Division shall be required to perform all duties
and related duties as set forth by state statute and village codes and
ordinances.
      (2)   Any and all duties as directed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   Required personnel.
      (1)   There shall be one Supervisor of Dispatchers appointed by the Mayor
with advice and consent of the Board of Trustees whose duties and job
description shall be set forth by the Director of Public Safety and may be
amended from time to time and whose immediate supervisor shall be the Assistant
Director of Public Safety.
      (2)   The Mayor, upon request from the Director of Public Safety, may
appoint the necessary amount of radio dispatchers as may be needed from time to
time by the Public Safety Department.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-14-2003)
FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
§ 31.65 MEMBERS.
   Any member of a subsidiary board or commission of the village, including,
but not limited to, the Planing and Zoning Commission, may serve as a member of
the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
(Ord. 03-26, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 31.66 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Commissioners’ rules and regulations, and any and all amendments
thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out
in full.
(Ord. 10-06, passed 3-23-2010)
§ 31.67 REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT.
   Every candidate shall be required to execute the reimbursement agreement (a
copy of which is attached to Ord. 11-07 and made a part hereof as if
incorporated herein) upon being appointed to the position of police officer
within the village.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 4-12-2011)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
31.02 by refusing to obey any order of the Board of Health or destroying,
mutilating or concealing any notice posted by or under the authority of the
Board of Health shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $50, for each
offense.
(Prior Code, § 31.99)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Department established
   
32.02   Duties of Department
   
32.03   Conduct of officers
   
32.04   Assistance in prosecution; witness fees
   
32.05   Rules and regulations
   
32.06   Special police officers
   
32.07   Residency requirement
   
32.08   Agreement for town to pay officers’ training expenses; reimbursement
   
32.09   Authorization for other personnel
   
32.10   Leave of absence
   
32.11   Disaster response system
   
32.12   Hiring standards
Administration and Enforcement
   
32.25   Office of Director of Public Safety established
   
32.26   Duties of Director of Public Safety
   
32.27   Offices of Commander established
   
32.28   Positions of sergeant established
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Police Department, an executive department
of the village.
   (B)   The Police Department shall consist of a Director of Public Safety and
other members as may be provided for from time to time by the Village President
and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of members of the Police Department to ensure
enforcement of this code and any other ordinances and statutes effective in the
village and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and to arrest
violators thereof.
   (B)   Every member of the Department is hereby declared a conservator of the
peace.
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
§ 32.03 CONDUCT OF OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to conduct
himself or herself in a proper and law abiding manner and to avoid the use of
unnecessary force.
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
§ 32.04 ASSISTANCE IN PROSECUTION; WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Every member of the Police Department shall appear as a witness
whenever necessary for prosecution of a violation of a village code provision,
ordinance or state or federal law.
   (B)   No member of the Police Department shall receive any witness fee for
services performed in connection with division (A) above in any action or suit
to which the village is a party.
   (C)   All fees for the services shall, if paid, be turned over to the
Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 32.04)
§ 32.05 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Safety may make or describe the rules and
regulations for the guidance of the members of the Police Department as the
Director shall see fit.
   (B)   The rules, when approved by the President and Board of Trustees, shall
be binding on the members and shall be an integral part of the rules and
regulations of the Police and Fire Board.
(Prior Code, § 32.05)
§ 32.06 SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   In order that the village adequately maintain its law enforcement
responsibilities, the Village President, with the consent of the Board of
Trustees, may appoint special police officers on a part-time and an auxiliary
basis to perform police enforcement duties under the supervision of the
Director of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 32.06)
   (B)   (1)   Appointment. The President, by and with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees, may appoint auxiliary police officers in such number
as the corporate authorities from time to time deem necessary.
      (2)   Status. Auxiliary police officers shall only be “conservators of
the peace” and shall only carry firearms while on duty, with the permission of
the Chief of Police, and only after completing the state certified 40-hour
mandatory firearms training course as provided under ILCS Ch. 50, Act 710, § 2.
Auxiliary police officers shall not be considered to be members of the regular
police department, and shall not supplement members of the regular police
department of the village in the performance of their assigned and normal
duties except as otherwise provided herein.
      (3)   Identification symbol. Identification symbols worn by the auxiliary
police officers shall be different and distinct from those used by the regular
police department.
      (4)   Supervision. Auxiliary police officers shall, at all times during
the performance of their duties, be subject to the direction and control of the
Chief of Police of the Village.
      (5)   Powers and duties.
         (a)   Auxiliary police officers shall only be assigned to perform the
following duties in the village:
            1.   To aid or direct traffic within the municipality;
            2.   To aid in control of natural or man-made disasters; and
            3.   To aid in case of civil disorder as directed by the Chief of
Police.
         (b)   When it is impractical for members of the regular police
department to perform those normal and regular police duties, however, the
Chief of Police of the regular police department may assign auxiliary police
officers to perform those normal and regular police duties.
      (6)   Hiring standards. No person shall be hired as an auxiliary police
officer who has not been fingerprinted, subject to the background check, and
found to have never been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral
turpitude. Auxiliary police officers are not required to be residents of the
village.
(Ord. 83-4, passed 7-11-1983; Ord. 08-18, passed 8-26-2008; Ord. 12-14, passed
8-28-2012; Ord. 12-16, passed 9-25-2012)
§ 32.07 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   All members of the Police Department, including the Director of Public
Safety, must reside within a 25-mile radius of the Village Police Department
which is located at 1629 N. Mannheim Road, Stone Park, Illinois.
   (B)   Anyone presently employed on the Police Department must relocate
within the boundaries described in division (A) above within one year of the
adoption of this section. Any new officers must move into the village during
their probation period as a condition of employment, whenever practicable.
   (C)   Full-time police personnel who are present members of the Police
Department and who have passed their probationary period are authorized to live
outside the village, but within the boundaries described in division (A) above,
if they move.
(Prior Code, § 32.07) (Ord. 72-8, passed 4-9-1973; Ord. 96-11, passed 10-7-
1996; Ord. 96-12, passed 11-4-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Additional residency requirements of village officials and employees, see §
30.002
§ 32.08 AGREEMENT FOR TOWN TO PAY OFFICERS’ TRAINING EXPENSES; REIMBURSEMENT.
   Newly hired police officers in the Village Police Department shall execute
the following agreement, contingent on their starting date:
AGREEMENT
WHEREAS,            , of           , has made application to and has otherwise
complied with all requirements, regulations and rules of the Village of Stone
Park to be appointed and sworn in as a Police Officer of the Police Department
of the Village of Stone Park; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Stone Park is ready, willing and able to appoint said
              as a Patrol Officer to the Police Department of the Village of
Stone Park; and
WHEREAS, the parties acknowledge that upon the appointment of           , the
Village of Stone Park will incur certain costs and expenses relative to and
consistent with the training, preparation and orientation of                 
as a Patrol Officer in the approximate amount of $         ; and
WHEREAS, the parties acknowledge that if                        should
terminate his/her employment within three (3) years after appointment as a
Patrol Officer to the Police Department of the Village of Stone Park, the
Village of Stone Park will suffer a financial loss in the approximate amount of
$         .
NOW THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual promises and
representation of the parties hereto, by each to the other, receipt of which is
hereby acknowledged, it is agreed, as follows:
   (1) That upon appointment of            , the Village of Stone Park will pay
and be responsible for certain debts and obligations on behalf of         for
his/her training, preparation and orientation;
   (2) That in the event              should voluntarily terminate his/her
employment with the Village of Stone Park prior to the date of the third
anniversary from his/her appointment as Patrol Officer of the Police Department
of the Village of Stone Park,               shall reimburse said amount
expended by the Village of Stone Park as aforesaid.
   DATED at Stone Park, Illinois, this        day of           , 20         .
                                                                            
                        Officer’s Signature
   VILLAGE OF STONE PARK
   By:                                                                       
   Fire and Police Commissioner
(Prior Code, § 32.08) (Ord. 87-7, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 32.09 AUTHORIZATION FOR OTHER PERSONNEL.
   (A)   There shall be one Chief.
   (B)   There shall be two Commanders: One in charge of operations and the
second in charge of the patrol division.
   (C)   There shall be:
      (1)   Not more than 12 patrol officers;
      (2)   Such part-time patrol officers as the Village Board shall deem,
from time to time, to be appropriate in number (eight-hour week, minimum; 24
hours per week, maximum).
      (3)   Such auxiliary officers as the Village Board shall deem, from time
to time, to be appropriate in number (16 hours per month, minimum).
   (D)   Effective on the date of the ordinance codified herein, there shall be
no longer be the mandatory ranks of lieutenant and/or sergeant. Officers who
currently hold the ranks of lieutenant and/or sergeant shall be permitted to
continue to hold such rank until such officers retire, resign or are otherwise
separated from their employment with the village. As the lieutenant and/or
sergeant position that are occupied on the date of enactment of the section are
vacated as described herein, those positions shall be abolished and eliminated
by attrition.
(Prior Code, § 32.09) (Ord. 76-13, passed 4-11-1977; Ord. 90-12, passed 9-24-
1990; Ord. 93-3, passed 11-1-1993; Ord. 94-6, passed 6-20-1994; Ord. 96-2,
passed 5-20-1996; Ord. 98-5, passed 9-21-1998; Ord. 01-01, passed 4-25-2001;
Ord. 01-05, passed 6-12-2001; Ord. 06-06, passed 4-11-2006; Ord. 13-05, passed
5-14-2013)
§ 32.10 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts a formal policy pertaining to a permissible
leave of absence from duty by full-time fire and police officers.
   (B)   The village hereby grants the authority to the Fire and Police
Commission to adopt a formal policy of a leave of absence pursuant to the
following guidelines.
      (1)   A leave of absence shall be granted for duty related disability or
military service reasons.
      (2)   A leave of absence may be granted for other reasons including, but
not limited to, allowing officers to pursue other career opportunities in law
enforcement.
      (3)   All leaves of absence shall require the following:
         (a)   Approval from the Director of Public Safety;
         (b)   Approval by a majority vote of the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners; and
         (c)   Approval by majority vote of the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   A leave of absence may only be granted for a period of two years;
however, an individual may request an extension by filing a petition with the
Director of Public Safety, who in turn shall submit the petition to the Board
of Fire and Police Commissioners for approval by majority vote.
      (5)   Any additional guidelines that the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners may see fit to adopt.
(Prior Code, § 32.10) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 32.11 DISASTER RESPONSE SYSTEM.
   The Village President, the Village Clerk and the Director of Public Safety
are authorized to execute an agreement for membership in the Northern Illinois
Police Alarm System Organization.
(Prior Code, § 32.11) (Ord. 93-2, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 32.12 HIRING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Employment. The village may employ part-time police officers from time
to time as they deem necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Village Police Department, but the number of hours a
part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.) and the rules
and requirements of the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
(ILETSB).
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age.
      (3)   Pass a medical examination.
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      (5)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver's license.
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village authorities, and shall not have any property rights
in said employment, and may be removed by the village authorities at any time.
Part-time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general
orders issued by the Police Department.
(Ord. 95-13, passed 12-18-1995; Ord. 12-01, passed 1-24-2012; Ord. 12-15,
passed 9-11-2012)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 32.25 OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety shall be appointed by the Village
President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 32.20)
§ 32.26 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   The Director of Public Safety shall:
   (A)   Be keeper of the Village Jail and have custody of all persons
incarcerated therein;
   (B)   Keep records and make reports concerning the activities of the Police
Department as may be required by statute or ordinance;
   (C)   Be responsible for the performance by the Department of all functions
and all persons who are members of the Department shall serve subject to the
orders of the Director of Public Safety;
   (D)   Be custodian of all lost, abandoned or stolen property in the village;
and
   (E)   Be authorized to serve writs, summonses and other processes. No patrol
officer shall serve any summons or process, except on the order of the Director
of Public Safety or Village President.
(Prior Code, § 32.21)
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Director of Public Safety, see §
30.212
   Village Jail, see
Ch. 34
§ 32.27 OFFICES OF COMMANDER ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Two positions of Commanders in the Village Police Department are
hereby established.
   (B)   Commanders shall be appointed by the Village President with the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The salary for the positions of Commanders shall be established by the
Board of Trustees and may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   The duties and responsibilities of the Commanders shall be assigned by
the Director of Public Safety. The Commander of Operations shall be second in
command of the Department and shall assume the duties and responsibilities of
the Director of Public Safety, if a vacancy were to occur in that position,
until a successor is appointed. The Commander of Patrol shall be third in
command.
(Prior Code, § 32.22) (Ord. 85-2, passed 5-13-1985)
§ 32.28 POSITIONS OF SERGEANT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Establishment of rank. The full time sworn rank of sergeant shall be
established within the Village of Stone Park Police Department.
   (B)   Number of sergeants. There shall be two full time sworn sergeants who
shall be promoted to said rank by the Chief of Police with the approval of the
Village Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Eligibility and promotion. Full time sworn village police officers who
have five years of experience within the Village Police Department shall be
eligible to test to be promoted to the position of sergeant. The promotion and
testing shall be pursuant to village rules and regulations and Illinois Statute
as administered by the Village of Stone Park Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities. Sergeants shall be under the direct
supervision of the appointed position of Commander and shall perform the duties
as set forth by the Chief of Police and their supervisory personnel pursuant to
the rules, regulations and procedures of the Village Police Department.
   (E)   The salary for the position of Sergeant shall be the top step of the
patrol's base wage scale plus $8,000.
(Ord. 21-20, passed 10-5-2021)
CHAPTER 33: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Established
   
33.02   Duties of Director of Public Safety; membership; chain of command
   
33.03   Duty of Director to keep records
   
33.04   Duties of Treasurer; bond required
   
33.05   Duties of all personnel
   
33.06   Obedience to orders
   
33.07   Use of apparatus
   
33.08   Leave of absence
   
33.09   Mutual aid box alarm system
   
33.10   Fire Marshals
Ambulance Service
   
33.20   Fee for ambulance service
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be and is hereby created and established a Fire Department
consisting of a Chief, Captain, three Lieutenants and members as may, from time
to time, be provided for by the President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 06-13, passed 9-26-2006)
§ 33.02 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY; MEMBERSHIP; CHAIN OF COMMAND.
   (A)   The Fire Commander shall, upon appointment and on May 1 of each year,
assign the duties as may be necessary and proper in the organization and
effective operation of the Fire Department during that year.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety shall control and supervise, subject to
the order and direction of the Board of Trustees, the Fire Department and all
apparatus and all equipment belonging to the village.
   (C)   In case of fire, the Fire Commander and the Commander’s assistants, in
their order of rank, shall take command at the scene. The officer highest in
rank shall take command of the Department and direct its management for the
suppression of the fire in the best manner possible. When it may be necessary
for the protection of other property and to prevent spread of the fire, the
ranking officer may cause buildings to be removed, torn down or destroyed in
the best manner possible.
(Prior Code, § 33.02)
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Director of Public Safety, see §
30.212
§ 33.03 DUTY OF DIRECTOR TO KEEP RECORDS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Safety shall keep a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department and attendance of the members, a record of all fires and
the attendance of the members at the fires and, during the last week of June of
each year, file with the Village Clerk a full report of those records. The
report shall be made under oath.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety also shall keep other records, make
reports and keep and furnish statistics as may be required by law.
(Prior Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04 DUTIES OF TREASURER; BOND REQUIRED.
   The Village Treasurer shall receive all money collected for and on behalf of
the Department, including the tax or license free from foreign insurance
companies; the Treasurer shall pay the same upon the order of the Department
for maintenance, use and benefit of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.04)
§ 33.05 DUTIES OF ALL PERSONNEL.
   It shall be the function and duty of every member of the Village Fire
Department:
   (A)   To extinguish accidental or destructive fires;
   (B)   To prevent the occurrence or spread of fires; and
   (C)   To enforce the provisions of this code and any other ordinances of the
village relating to the occurrence or spread of fires.
(Prior Code, § 33.05)
§ 33.06 OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS.
   Every Fire Department member in attendance at a fire shall obey the orders
of the officer in command of the fire.
(Prior Code, § 33.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.07 USE OF APPARATUS.
   No person shall use, remove or permit to be used any fire engine, hose, cart
or any other apparatus belonging to the village for any private purpose other
than for extinguishing fires.
(Prior Code, § 33.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.08 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts a formal policy pertaining to a permissible
leave of absence from duty by full-time fire and police officers.
   (B)   The village hereby grants the authority to the Fire and Police
Commission to adopt a formal policy of a leave of absence pursuant to the
following guidelines.
      (1)   A leave of absence shall be granted for duty related disability or
military service reasons.
      (2)   A leave of absence may be granted for other reasons including, but
not limited to, allowing officers to pursue other career opportunities in law
enforcement.
      (3)   All leaves of absence shall require the following:
         (a)   Approval from the Director of Public Safety;
         (b)   Approval by a majority vote of the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners; and
         (c)   Approval by majority vote of the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   A leave of absence may only be granted for a period of two years;
however, an individual may request an extension by filing a petition with the
Director of Public Safety, who in turn shall submit the petition to the Board
of Fire and Police Commissioners for approval by majority vote.
      (5)   Any additional guidelines that the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners may see fit to adopt.
(Prior Code, § 33.08) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 33.09 MUTUAL AID BOX ALARM SYSTEM.
   The President and Clerk are hereby authorized to execute an agreement for
participation in the Mutual Aid Box Alarm System.
(Prior Code, § 33.09) (Ord. 89-5, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 33.10 FIRE MARSHALS.
   (A)   Office of Fire Marshals established; appointments. There is hereby
established the Offices of Fire Marshals who shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees in such number as shall be
determined from to time by the corporate authorities.
   (B)   Term of office; removal; compensation.
      (1)   The Fire Marshals shall each serve at the discretion of the Mayor
and Board of Trustees and may be removed from office at the will of the Mayor
and Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Each Fire Marshal shall receive such hourly compensation for
services as determined by the corporate authorities.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities. Their duties and responsibilities shall
be as fully set forth by the Fire Chief regarding the enforcement of all
village ordinances and codes pertaining to local building, health, licensing,
animals, non-moving vehicles, fire prevention and any other ordinances or codes
specifically assigned to the Fire Marshals in the area of public safety.
(Ord. 19-22, passed 11-26-2019)
AMBULANCE SERVICE
§ 33.20 FEE FOR AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   (A)   Persons who are provided with ambulance service and transported to a
medical facility by the Village Fire Department or any agency acting on its
behalf shall be charged according to the following rates.
Service Provided Resident Fee Non-Resident Fee
Service Provided         Resident Fee Non-Resident Fee
Basic Life Support       $750         $1,250
ALS 11                   $750         $1,500
ALS 22                   $750         $2,000
Oxygen                   $25          $50
Mileage                  $10/mile     $10/mile
Engine EMS Response3     $250         $500
BLS Treat No Transport4  $0           $250
ALS Treat No Transport4  $250         $500
Engine Rescue Responses5 $250         $500
Note 1: ALS 1 is defined as basic life support care, plus advanced life
support care, given by an EMT-paramedic licensed in the state and operating
under the Loyola University Medical Center EMS System. ALS 1 includes
establishing or attempting to establish intravenous access, monitoring of
cardiac rhythm with a cardiac monitor, medication administration.
Note 2: ALS 2 is defined as basic life support and advanced life support (1)
care given by an EMT-paramedic licensed in the state and operating under the
Loyola University Medical Center EMS System. ALS 2 also includes three
medications administered, advanced airway management procedures including,
but not limited to, endo-tracheal intubation, use of the combi-tube, surgical
and needle crichoidotomy, pleural needle decompression, other paramedic-level
skills approved by the Loyola University Medical Center EMS System.
Note 3: ENGINE EMS RESPONSE is defined as the engine responding to an EMS
call as a first responder vehicle or responding to assist the ambulance from
the Village Fire Department or a surrounding community responding to the
village.
Note 4: ALS TREAT NO TRANSPORT is defined as an EMS call where the patient is
given paramedic-level care (i.e. IV and dextrose for hypoglycemia), then
refuses transport to the hospital by the ambulance. BLS TREAT NO TRANSPORT is
defined where the patient is given EMT-basic level care then refuses
transport to the hospital.
Note 5: ENGINE RESCUE RESPONSE is defined as the engine company responding to
a motor vehicle accident to provide rescue services, a vehicle fire or a fuel
spill. Responses may also include EMS charges and other charges relating to
the incident as appropriate.
 
   (B)   Persons who are provided with assistance by a village engine company
as a result of an automobile accident shall be charged $250 for the service.
   (C)   Upon obtaining the pertinent information from the recipient for the
ambulance service, the person who has received ambulance or engine company
service will be billed for the service by an independent billing agency, chosen
by the 20th Division MABAS Fire Departments. The village reserves the right to
terminate the billing cycle.
   (D)   The village reserves the right to waive the fees and or related
service charges to village residents.
(Prior Code, § 33.20) (Ord. 92-3, passed 7-20-1992; Ord. 98-8, passed 10-19-
1998; Ord. 03-23, passed 9-9-2003; Ord. 08-07, passed 5-13-2008)
CHAPTER 34: JAIL
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Established
   
34.02   Use
   
34.03   Escape
   
34.04   Communication with prisoners
Administration and Enforcement
   
34.15   Director of Public Safety to be keeper
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHED.
   The place in the village heretofore established and used as the jail or any
other place which hereafter may be used for that purpose is hereby declared the
Village Jail.
(Prior Code, § 34.01)
§ 34.02 USE.
   The jail shall be used for the incarceration of all persons arrested for
violating any laws of the village, state or federal government until:
   (A)   The persons shall be lawfully taken before the nearest available judge
for a hearing;
   (B)   Until the persons shall be lawfully transferred to some other place of
incarceration; or
   (C)   Until the persons are otherwise lawfully released.
(Prior Code, § 34.02)
§ 34.03 ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to escape, attempt to escape or assist
any prisoner to escape or attempt to escape from the jail.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.04 COMMUNICATION WITH PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to communicate with any prisoner held in
the jail, except during regularly established visitation hours.
(Prior Code, § 34.04) Penalty, see §
34.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 34.15 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY TO BE KEEPER.
   The Director of Public Safety shall be the keeper of the jail and shall have
custody over all persons confined therein and of all property pertaining
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 34.10)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $100, for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 34.99)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE; REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
35.001   Appropriations
   
35.002   Tax levy
   
35.003   Indebtedness
   
35.004   Bills; payroll
   
35.005   Payment by Village Treasurer
   
35.006   Fiscal year
   
35.007   Annual audit
   
35.008   Surety bonds
   
35.009   Depositories for village funds
   
35.010   Tax increment financing registry
Locally Imposed, Administered Tax Rights and Responsibilities
   
35.025   Title
   
35.026   Scope
   
35.027   Definitions
   
35.028   Notices
   
35.029   Late payment
   
35.030   Payment
   
35.031   Certain credits and refunds
   
35.032   Audit procedure
   
35.033   Appeal
   
35.034   Hearing
   
35.035   Interest and penalties
   
35.036   Abatement
   
35.037   Installment contracts
   
35.038   Statute of limitations
   
35.039   Voluntary disclosure
   
35.040   Publication of tax ordinances
   
35.041   Internal review procedure
   
35.042   Application
Hotel and Motel Room Use Tax
   
35.055   Definitions
   
35.056   Tax established; rate
   
35.057   Records
   
35.058   Transmittal of revenue
   
35.059   Collection
   
35.060   Licenses
   
35.061   Payments to Village Treasury
   
35.062   Rebate
Utility Tax
   
35.075   Tax established
   
35.076   Effective dates of tax
   
35.077   Definitions
   
35.078   Exceptions
   
35.079   Returns
   
35.080   Erroneous payments
   
35.081   Electricity transmission tax imposed
   
35.082   Collection of tax
   
35.083   Tax remittance and return
   
35.084   Resales
   
35.085   Books and records
   
35.086   Credits and refunds
   
35.087   Penalties and remedies
Real Estate Transfer Tax
   
35.100   Tax established; rate; transfer by deed
   
35.101   Grantor of deed liable
   
35.102   Stamps; outstanding water and sewer charges
   
35.103   Filing of declaration
   
35.104   Exemptions
Sales Tax
   
35.115   Definitions
   
35.116   Application to retail purchases
   
35.117   Rate
   
35.118   Liability of purchaser; collection; eluding liability
   
35.119   Personal liability of officers or employees
   
35.120   Certification of registration as Tax Collector
   
35.121   Deposits apply to liability
   
35.122   Revenue deposited in corporate fund
   
35.123   Returns
   
35.124   Failure to file returns
   
35.125   Interest rates
   
35.126   Penalties and interest not to bar further collection or prosecution
   
35.127   Records
   
35.128   Proof of things not taxable
   
35.129   Service of process; notice
   
35.130   Duties of Village Clerk
   
35.131   Duty of Village Attorney
   
35.132   Hearings
   
35.133   Isolated or occasional sales; real estate and construction contracts
   
35.134   Sales of services
   
35.135   Redemption of trading stamps
   
35.136   Not-for-profit enterprises
   
35.137   Motor vehicles and aircraft
   
35.138   Receipts
   
35.139   Retailers without places of business in the village
   
35.140   Concessions, art shows, flea markets and the like
   
35.141   Exemptions
Motor Fuel Tax
   
35.155   Definitions
   
35.156   Tax imposed
   
35.157   Collection of tax
   
35.158   Registration and maintenance of records
   
35.159   Late payment penalty
Entertainment Tax
   
35.170   Definition
   
35.171   Imposition of tax
   
35.172   Exemptions
   
35.173   Collection of tax
   
35.174   Accounting and payment of tax
   
35.175   Replacement of license fee
   
35.176   Further acts
Telecommunications Tax and Infrastructure Fee
   
35.190   Definitions
   
35.191   Registration of telecommunications providers
   
35.192   Municipal telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
   
35.193   Collection, enforcement and administration of fees
   
35.194   Compliance with other laws
   
35.195   Existing franchises and licenses
   
35.196   Penalties
   
35.197   Enforcement
   
35.198   Waiver and fee implementation
   
35.199   Telecommunications tax rate
Cannabis Retailers' Occupation Tax
   
35.220   Tax imposed; rate
   
35.221   Collection of tax by retailers
Push Tax on Operation of Video Gaming Terminals
   
35.230   Applicability of provisions
   
35.231   Definitions
   
35.232   Amusement tax imposed
   
35.233   Tax additional
   
35.234   Registration
   
35.235   Collection, payment, and accounting
   
35.236   Rules and regulations; authorized
   
35.237   Violations; penalties
 
   
35.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.001 APPROPRIATIONS.
   During the first quarter of each fiscal year, as required by statute, the
Village Board of Trustees shall enact an appropriation ordinance in which shall
be itemized all anticipated expenditures to be met during the coming year,
other than those payable from bond issues. This ordinance shall be published as
required by law within ten days after its enactment.
(Prior Code, § 35.001)
§ 35.002 TAX LEVY.
   The Board of Trustees shall levy and collect taxes for corporate purposes in
the manner provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-3-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 35.002)
§ 35.003 INDEBTEDNESS.
   No indebtedness shall be incurred, except that which may be payable solely
from the proceeds of a duly authorized bond issue or from a designated
specified source, unless there is a prior appropriation out of which the
indebtedness could be paid, as provided by statute. During the first quarter of
any fiscal year, before the enactment of the current appropriation ordinance,
the village may operate under the appropriation ordinance of the preceding
year.
(Prior Code, § 35.003)
§ 35.004 BILLS; PAYROLL.
   All bills payable by the village, other than for the payment of salaries
established by the Board of Trustees, shall be submitted to the Board for
approval before payment.
(Prior Code, § 35.004)
§ 35.005 PAYMENT BY VILLAGE TREASURER.
   The Village Treasurer shall pay money in payment of all bills, for salaries
or for any other purpose other than the retirement of principal or interest on
bonds or tax anticipation warrants only upon warrant signed by the Village
President and Village Clerk as provided by statute. The warrants shall
designate the items to be paid and the funds from which they are to be paid.
(Prior Code, § 35.005)
§ 35.006 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for the village shall begin on May 1 of each year and end on
April 30 of the following year.
(Prior Code, § 35.006)
§ 35.007 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the funds of the accounts of
the village to be made by an accountant as required by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§
8-8-3 et seq. The village shall, within six months after the close of each
fiscal year, unless an extension is granted, file with the State Comptroller an
audit and supplemental report or a financial report as required in ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, §§ 8-8-3 and 8-8-4.
(Prior Code, § 35.007)
§ 35.008 SURETY BONDS.
   (A)   Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the village is required as a
prerequisite to exercising the duties of any office or position or to the
issuance of a license or permit or for the exercise of any special privilege,
the surety on the bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do
business in the state as a surety company, in the absence of a specific
provision to the contrary by ordinance.
   (B)   Whenever, in its opinion, additional sureties or an additional surety
may be needed on any bond to indemnify the village against loss or liability
because of the insolvency of the existing surety or for any reason, the Village
Board of Trustees may order a new surety to be secured for the bond. If a new
surety is not procured within ten days from the time the order is transmitted
to the principal on the bond or the principal’s assignee, the Board shall
declare the bond void and the principal or assignee shall be deemed to have
surrendered the privilege or position as condition of which the bond was
required.
(Prior Code, § 35.008)
§ 35.009 DEPOSITORIES FOR VILLAGE FUNDS.
   The following banks are designated as depositories of village funds,
pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-50:
   (A)   International Bank of Chicago;
   (B)   Greater Bank of Chicago; and
   (C)   Harris Bank Westchester.
(Ord. 01-02, passed 4-25-2001)
§ 35.010 TAX INCREMENT FINANCING REGISTRY.
   (A)   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to create an
“interested parties” registry in accordance with the Act for Each Redevelopment
Project Area, being ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-4.2, created under the Act
and not terminated by the village, whether existing or created after the date
of the adoption of this section.
   (B)   In accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-4.2 of the Act, the
village hereby adopts the registration rules attached to Ord. 00-6 as Exhibit A
as registration rules for each “interested parties” registry. The Village Board
of Trustees may amend the registration rules from time to time as may be
necessary or desirable to comply with and carry out the purposes intended by
the Act.
(Ord. 00-6, passed 11-6-2000)
LOCALLY IMPOSED, ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 35.025 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance”.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.026 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to village procedures in
connection with all village locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.027 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, being ILCS Ch. 50,
Act 45.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Stone Park President and Board of Trustees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Treasurer is charged with the administration
and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the Local Tax
Administrator to act in the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR’s stead. The LOCAL TAX
ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of authority by
the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall not be inconsistent with this subchapter and
the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected and administered by the village not an agency or department
of the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under
the Property Tax Code or fees collected by the village other infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of the tax
is place and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Stone Park, Illinois.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.028 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed 15 days prior to the day fixed for any
applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the Local Tax
Administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax Administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons’ last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.029 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the village on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.030 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First, to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second, to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third, to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.031 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid with
written protest at the time of payment in the event that locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
one year after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was made.
The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows.
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
that, there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the
taxpayer owes any moneys to the village.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the Local Tax Administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.032 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any locally administered tax
shall comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and, if the
date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator are not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be required by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted within 30 days from the date the notice
is given, unless the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator agreed to some
other convenient time. In the event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit
on the date in question, the taxpayer may request another date within the 30
days, approved in writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax
Administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions, which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   (E)   (1)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village.
      (2)   If the taxpayer or assessor fails to provide the documents
necessary for audit within the time provided, the Local Tax Administrator may
issue a tax determination and assessment based on the Tax Administrator’s
determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 60 days of the
village’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing the tax.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.033 APPEAL.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from a Local Tax Administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the Local Tax
Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within 45 days of
receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days or receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   (1)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the
full payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of
the due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing.
      (2)   In no event shall the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than 90 days after the
expiration of the 45-day period.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.034 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
35.033 of this chapter, the Local Tax Administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding the appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted, except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing the Local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or Tax Collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.035 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest. The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment or non-payment of the tax, be 5% per
annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties.
      (1)   If a tax return is not filed within the time and manner provided by
the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing penalty, of 5% of the amount of
tax required to be shown as due on a return shall be imposed; and a late
payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be imposed.
      (2)   If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed.
      (3)   A late filing payment or penalty shall not apply if a failure to
file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.036 ABATEMENT.
   The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
Local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.037 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The Local Tax
Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
Local Tax Administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the Local Administrator,
the installment contract shall be cancelled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.038 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The village, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (B)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (C)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the village,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
   (D)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return filed
by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.039 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment from the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application, but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid at the amount of tax due, the taxpayer, is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax along with
applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the underpayment was the
result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case the application
shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and interest must be made
by not later than 90 days after the filing of the voluntary disclosure
application or the date agreed to by the Local Tax Administrator. However, any
additional amounts owed as a result of an underpayment of tax and interest
previously paid under the section must be paid within 90 days after a final
determination and the exhaustion of all appeals fo the additional amount owed
or the date agreed to by the Local Tax Administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.040 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing tax requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the Village
Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.041 INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the Local Tax Administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the village’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit records; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 35.042 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement
all the village’s tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this subchapter shall be
controlling.
(Ord. 01-15, passed 9-11-2001)
HOTEL AND MOTEL ROOM USE TAX
§ 35.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. An establishment containing lodging accommodations (rooms
for rent) designed for use by transients or travelers or temporary guests,
which establishment is kept, used or maintained as or advertised or held out to
the public to be an inn, motel, hotel, apartment, lodging house, dormitory or
place where sleeping, rooming, office, conference or exhibition accommodations
are furnished for lease or rent, whether with or without meals.
   HOTEL ROOM or MOTEL ROOM. A room offered within a place held out to be an
inn, motel, hotel, apartment, lodging house, dormitory or place where sleeping,
rooming, office, conference or exhibition accommodations for rent. A room
rented for any period of time, with or without an adjoining bath. The number of
HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOMS within a suite shall be computed on the basis of those
rooms used for the purpose of sleeping.
   OWNER. Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the
operation of a hotel or motel or receiving the consideration for the rental of
the hotel or motel room.
   PERSON. Any natural person, trustee, court-appointed representative,
syndicate, association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business
trust, institution, agency, government corporation, municipal corporation,
district or other political subdivision, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee,
operator, user or owner or any officers, agents or employees or other
representatives acting either for himself or herself or for any other person in
any capacity or any other entity recognized by law as the subject or rights and
duties.
(Prior Code, § 35.020) (Ord. 73-8, passed 2-11-1974; Ord. 97-15, passed 3-2-
1998)
§ 35.056 TAX ESTABLISHED; RATE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed upon the use and privilege of
renting or leasing a hotel or motel room (accommodation) within the village a
tax of 6% upon the gross receipts of the motel or hotel.
   (B)   The incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is to be borne
by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel or motel room,
that person hereinafter referred to as “renter”.
   (C)   The tax levied by this section shall be paid in addition to any and
all other taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every hotel
and motel to secure the tax from the renter of the hotel or motel room and to
pay over to the Village Collector the tax under procedures prescribed by the
Collector, or as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
   (D)   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this section shall
secure the tax from the renter at the time he or she collects the rental
payment for the hotel or motel room. Upon the invoice receipt or other
statement or memorandum of the rent given the renter at the time of payment,
the amount due under the tax provided in this subchapter shall be stated
separately on the documents.
(Prior Code, § 35.021) (Ord. 73-8, passed 2-11-1974; Ord. 75-8, passed 8-25-
1975; Ord. 89-11, passed 10-9-1989; Ord. 97-15, passed 3-2-1998) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.057 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Village Collector, or any person certified by the Collector as a
deputy or representative, may enter the premises of any hotel or motel for
inspection and examination of books and records in order to effectuate the
proper administration of this subchapter and to ensure the enforcement of the
collection of the tax imposed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or interfere
with the Collector or the Collector’s deputy or representative, in the
discharge of the Collector’s duties in the performance of this subchapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete
books and records to which the Collector or the Collector’s deputy or
representative shall, at all times, have full access, which records shall
include a daily sheet showing:
      (1)   The number of hotel or motel rooms rented during the 24-hour
period, including multiple rentals of the same hotel or motel room; and
      (2)   Tax receipts collected for the date in question.
(Prior Code, § 35.022) (Ord. 73-8, passed 2-11-1974; Ord. 97-15, passed 3-2-
1998) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.058 TRANSMITTAL OF REVENUE.
   (A)   The owner of each hotel or motel room within the village shall file
tax returns, upon forms prescribed by the Village Collector, showing tax
receipts received with respect to each hotel and motel room during each three-
month period, commencing on and including January 1, April 1, July 1 and
October 1. The returns shall be due on or before the fifteenth day of the
calendar month succeeding the end of the quarterly filing period. That is,
returns for January, February and March tax receipts shall be due on or before
April 15; returns for April, May and June tax receipts shall be due on or
before July 15, and so on. At the time of filing tax returns, the owner shall
pay the Collector all taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies.
   (B)   Any owner of a hotel or motel who, for the preceding quarterly period
failed to file a proper return or pay the proper amount of tax to the
Collector, may be required by the Collector, at the Collector’s discretion, to
file subsequent returns and pay the tax imposed by this subchapter on a monthly
basis, in which case payments of the tax shall be made to the Collector on or
before the fifteenth day of the month succeeding the month for which the tax
was due.
   (C)   If, for any reason, the tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the
rate of 1% per 30-day period, or portion thereof, from the day of delinquency
shall be added and collected.
(Prior Code, § 35.023) (Ord. 73-8, passed 2-11-1974; Ord. 97-15, passed 3-2-
1998) Penalty, see §
35.999 
§ 35.059 COLLECTION.
   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the
Village Attorney shall, upon the request of the Village Collector, bring or
cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of the tax in behalf of
the village in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 35.024) (Ord. 73-8, passed 2-11-1974; Ord. 97-15, passed 3-2-
1998) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.060 LICENSES.
   If the Village President, after a hearing held by or for the President,
shall find that any person has willfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by
this subchapter, the President may suspend or revoke all village licenses held
by the tax evader. The owner shall have an opportunity to be heard at the
hearing to be held not less than five days after notice of the time and place
of the hearing to be held, addressed to him or her at his or her last known
place of business. Pending notice, hearing and finding, any license may be
possessed may be temporarily suspended. Any suspension or revocation of any
license shall not release or discharge the owner from civil liability for the
payment of the tax, nor from prosecution for the offense.
(Prior Code, § 35.025) (Ord. 73-8, passed 2-11-1974; Ord. 97-15, passed 3-2-
1998) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.061 PAYMENTS TO VILLAGE TREASURY.
   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this subchapter,
including penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of the village.
(Prior Code, § 35.026) (Ord. 73-8, passed 2-11-1974; Ord. 97-15, passed 3-2-
1998) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.062 REBATE.
   If the owner of each hotel or motel room within the village files tax
returns on or before the fifteenth day of the calendar month succeeding the end
of the quarterly filing period, the owner shall be entitled to a 1% rebate from
the total amount of tax due the village. Any returns made after the due date
shall not be entitled to a rebate.
(Prior Code, § 35.027) (Ord. 73-8, passed 2-11-1974; Ord. 97-15, passed 3-2-
1998)
UTILITY TAX
§ 35.075 TAX ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges:
      (1)   Persons engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means
of electricity or magnetic radio waves, or fiber optics at a rate not to exceed
5%, if the gross receipts from the business originating within the corporate
limits of the village;
      (2)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of the village, and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross
receipts therefrom; and
      (3)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the village, and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts
therefrom.
   (B)   The tax imposed under this section shall not apply with respect to
gross receipts pertaining to bills for the distribution, supply, furnishing or
sale of electricity where the use or consumption of the electricity is subject
to the tax imposed under division (A) above.
   (C)   If a taxpayer under this subchapter is unable to use a credit
authorized by this section solely because the tax imposed by this subchapter
has been replaced by the tax imposed under this subchapter, then the taxpayer
may apply the credit against any tax due under ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 35.040) (Ord. 77-14, passed 9-26-1977; Ord. 94-12, passed 4-3-
1995; Ord. 98-4, passed 7-31-1998)
§ 35.076 EFFECTIVE DATES OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   On or before the last day of August 2005, each taxpayer shall
make a return to the Village Treasurer for the month of July, 2005, stating:
         (a)   Taxpayer’s name;
         (b)   Taxpayer’s principal place of business;
         (c)   Taxpayer’s gross receipts during the month upon the basis of
which the tax is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax; and
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   On or before the last of the month thereafter, each tax payer shall
make a like return to the Village Treasurer for corresponding one-month period.
   (B)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making the return, pay to Village Treasurer, the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided that, in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he
or she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings
of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between the billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
(Prior Code, § 35.041) (Ord. 77-14, passed 9-26-1977; Ord. 81-6, passed 8-31-
1981; Ord. 88-3, passed 6-27-1988; Ord. 00-11, passed 3-19-2001; Ord. 05-16,
passed 7-26-2005)
§ 35.077 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THE STATE. Any person having or
maintaining within the state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation, facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent or other
representative operating within the state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether the place of
business or agent or other representative is located in the state permanently
or temporarily, or whether the person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in the state.
   PERSON(S). Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivisions,
any state university created by statute or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for
purposes of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the
use of electricity by a public utility, as defined in § 8-11-2 of the Illinois
Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2), directly in the generation,
production, transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
   PURCHASER. Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of
the village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Stone Park.
(Prior Code, § 35.042) (Ord. 77-14, passed 9-26-1977)
§ 35.078 EXCEPTIONS.
   No tax is imposed by this subchapter with respect to any transaction in
interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which the business may not,
under the Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to
taxation by the state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any
persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas or electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages
be subject to taxation under the provisions of this subchapter for such
transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of
the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.
(Prior Code, § 35.043) (Ord. 77-14, passed 9-26-1977)
§ 35.079 RETURNS.
   (A)   On or before May 31, each taxpayer shall make a return to the Village
Treasurer for the months of January, February and March, stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts during those months within the village
upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax; and
      (5)   Other reasonable and related information as the corporation
authorities may require.
   (B)   On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the Village Treasurer for a corresponding
three-month period.
   (C)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for, shall, at the time
of making the return, pay to the Village Treasurer the amount of tax therein
imposed; provided that, in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he
or she so elects, report and pay any amount based upon his or her total
billings of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return
is made (exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of
later payments based upon any difference between the billings and the taxable
gross receipts.
(Prior Code, § 35.044) (Ord. 77-14, passed 9-26-1977)
§ 35.080 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS.
   (A)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the results of a
mistake of fact or an error of law, then the amount shall be credited against
any tax due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made
the erroneous payment; provided that, no amounts erroneously paid more than
three years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
   (B)   No action to recover any amounts of tax due under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
the amount.
(Prior Code, § 35.045) (Ord. 77-14, passed 9-26-1977)
§ 35.081 ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 8-11-2) and any and all other applicable authority, a tax is imposed upon
the privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at
retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the village at the
following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
      (1)   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.612 per kilowatt-hour;
      (2)   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.436 per kilowatt-hour;
      (3)   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.389 per kilowatt-hour;
      (4)   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.350 per kilowatt-hour;
      (5)   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.310 per kilowatt-hour;
      (6)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.250 per kilowatt-hour;
      (7)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.190 per kilowatt-hour;
      (8)   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.150 per kilowatt-hour;
      (9)   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.110 per kilowatt-hour; and
      (10)   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month: $0.080 per kilowatt-hour.
   (B)   The tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue measures
imposed by the village, the state or any other political subdivision of the
state.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the tax shall not
be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax would
violate the Constitution or statutes of the United States or the Constitution
of the state.
   (D)   The tax shall be imposed with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by residential customers beginning with the first bill issued on or
after 9-1-1998; and with respect to the use or consumption of electricity by
non-residential customers beginning with the first bill issued to the customers
for delivery services in accordance with § 16-104 of the Public Utilities Act
(ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-104), or the first bill issued to the customers on
or after 1-1-2001, whichever issuance occurs sooner.
(Ord. 98-4, passed 7-31-1998)
§ 35.082 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter regarding the delivery of
electricity to resellers, the tax impose under this subchapter shall be
collected from purchasers by the person maintaining a place of business in the
state who delivers electricity to the purchasers. This tax shall constitute a
debt of the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the
purchaser and is recoverable at the same time and in the same manner as the
original charge for delivering the electricity.
   (B)   Any tax required to be collected by this subchapter, and any tax in
fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the village by the person
delivering the electricity; provided that, the person delivering electricity
shall be allowed credit for the tax related to deliveries of electricity the
charges for which are written off as uncollectible; and, provided, further,
that, if the charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be
obligated to remit the tax.
   (C)   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding the tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity.
Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to the gross
charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax they collect to reimburse them for
their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and
filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the village upon
request. For purposes of this subchapter, any partial payment of a billed
amount not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed to be for
the delivery of electricity.
(Ord. 98-4, passed 7-31-1998)
§ 35.083 TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN.
   (A)   Every tax collector shall on a monthly basis file a return in a form
prescribed by the Village Clerk’s Office. The return and accompanying
remittance shall be due on or before the last day of the month following the
month during which the tax is collected or is required to be collected under
this subchapter.
   (B)   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser or is excused from collecting the tax, then the purchaser shall file
a return in a form prescribed by the Village Clerk and pay the tax directly to
the Village Clerk’s office on or before the last day of the month following the
month during which the electricity is used or consumed.
(Ord. 98-4, passed 7-31-1998)
§ 35.084 RESALES.
   (A)   Electricity that is delivered to a person in the village shall be
considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the person
receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the Village
Clerk and furnishes that number to the person who delivers the electricity, and
certifies to that person that the sale is either entirely or partially non-
taxable as a sale for resale.
   (B)   If a person who receives electricity in the village claims to be an
authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the Village
Clerk’s office for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing why
it is not liable for the tax imposed by this subchapter on any purchases of
electricity and shall furnish additional information as the Village Clerk may
reasonably require.
   (C)   Upon approval of the application, the Village Clerk shall assign a
resale number to the applicant and shall certify the number to the applicant.
   (D)   The village may cancel the resale number of any person if the person
fails to pay any tax payable under this subchapter for electricity used or
consumed by the person, or if the number:
      (1)   Was obtained through misrepresentation; or
      (2)   Is no longer necessary because the person has discontinued making
resales.
   (E)   (1)   If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or
consumption and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by
this subchapter directly to the Village Clerk’s office pursuant to §
35.083(B) of this chapter on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses
or consumes, and shall collect the tax pursuant to §
35.083 of this chapter and remit the tax pursuant to §
35.083(A) of this chapter on the amount of electricity delivered by the
reseller to a purchaser.
      (2)   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an active
resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section shall be
excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the electricity
delivered to the reseller; provided that, the person reports to the Village
Clerk the total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller, and other
information that the Village Clerk may reasonably require.
(Ord. 98-4, passed 7-31-1998)
§ 35.085 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   Every tax collector, and every taxpayer required to pay the tax impose
by this subchapter, shall keep accurate books and records of its business or
activity, including contemporaneous books and records denoting the transactions
that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under this
subchapter.
   (B)   The books and records shall be subject to and available for inspection
at all times during business hours of the day.
(Ord. 98-4, passed 7-31-1998)
§ 35.086 CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision, in order to permit sound fiscal
planning and budgeting by the village, no person shall be entitled to a refund
of, or credit for, a tax imposed under this subchapter unless the persons files
a claim for refund or credit within one year after the date on which the tax
was paid or remitted.
(Ord. 98-4, passed 7-31-1998)
§ 35.087 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 98-4, passed 7-31-1998)
REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX
§ 35.100 TAX ESTABLISHED; RATE; TRANSFER BY DEED.
   A tax is imposed on the privilege of transferring title to real estate
within the corporate limits of the village, as represented by the deed that is
filed for recordation, at the rate of $2 for each $500 of value or fraction
thereof as stated in the declaration provided for in this subchapter. The tax
herein levied shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.
(Prior Code, § 35.055) (Ord. 87-4, passed 6-22-1987; Ord. 94-11, passed 4-3-
1995)
§ 35.101 GRANTOR OF DEED LIABLE.
   The incidence of and liability for payment of the tax imposed by §
35.100 shall be borne by the grantor of any deed and subject to this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.056) (Ord. 87-4, passed 6-22-1987)
§ 35.102 STAMPS; OUTSTANDING WATER AND SEWER CHARGES.
   (A)   The tax levied by §
35.100 shall be paid by purchase of tax stamps from the Village Clerk or the
Clerk’s designated agent. The payment of the tax shall be denoted by an
adhesive stamp or stamps affixed to the face of the deed.
   (B)   At the time application is made for tax stamps, the Clerk shall
determine whether there are any outstanding water and sewer charges, Building
Code fines, burglar alarm fees, fire alarm fees, property maintenance invoices,
and liens due to the village with respect to the subject property, or any other
assessments, fines, or other penalties, are due the village from the property
owner or owners. No transfer tax stamps shall be issued unless all such
outstanding charges, fine, fees, invoices, liens, and other debts as identified
herein are paid in full. Upon installation or replacement of a water meter, the
owner of the premises shall pay the village the listed cost at the time of
installation.
(Prior Code, § 35.057) (Ord. 87-4, passed 6-22-1987; Ord. 04-18, passed 5-25-
2004; Ord. 22-03, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 35.103 FILING OF DECLARATION.
   At the time the tax levied by §
35.100 is paid, there shall be filed with the Village Clerk a fully executed
and completed copy of the real estate transfer declaration required by ILCS Ch.
35, Act 200, Art. 31.
(Prior Code, § 35.058) (Ord. 87-4, passed 6-22-1987)
§ 35.104 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following deeds shall be exempt from the tax levied by §
35.100:
      (1)   Deeds to or current trust documents relating to property acquired
by any governmental body or from any governmental body or deeds to or documents
relating to property or interests transferred between governmental bodies, or
by or from any corporation, society, association, foundation or institution
organized and operated exclusively for charitable, religious or education
purposes; except deeds or trust documents, other than those in which the
Administrators of Veterans Affairs of the United States is the grantee pursuant
to a foreclosure proceeding, shall not be exempt from filing the declaration;
      (2)   Deeds or trust documents which secure debt or other obligation;
      (3)   Deeds or trust documents which, without additional consideration,
confirm, correct, modify or supplement a deed previously recorded;
      (4)   Deeds or trust documents where the actual consideration is less
than $100;
      (5)   Tax deeds;
      (6)   Deeds or trust documents of release of property which is security
for a debt or other obligation;
      (7)   Deeds of partition;
      (8)   Deeds or trust documents made pursuant to mergers, consolidations
or transfers or sales of substantially all the assets of corporations pursuant
to plans of reorganization;
      (9)   Deeds or trust documents made by a subsidiary corporation to its
parent corporation for no consideration other than the cancellation or
surrender of the subsidiary’s stock;
      (10)   Deeds wherein there is an actual exchange of real estate and trust
documents wherein there is an actual exchange of beneficial interests, except
the money difference or money’s worth paid from one to the other shall not be
exempt from the tax;
      (11)   Deeds representing transfers subject to the imposition of a
documentary stamp tax imposed by the government of the United States, except
the deeds shall not be exempt from filing the declaration; and
      (12)   Deeds issued to a holder of a mortgage, as defined in the ILCS Ch.
735, Act 5, § 15-1207, pursuant to a mortgage foreclosure proceeding or
pursuant to a transfer in lieu of foreclosure.
   (B)   Every deed which is tax exempt pursuant to this section shall be
presented to the Clerk so as to be appropriately marked by the Village
Treasurer as an exempt deed eligible for recordation without the payment of
tax. When a deed is presented the Clerk, a certificate setting forth the facts
which justify the exemption of the deed must also be presented. The certificate
shall be executed on behalf of either the grantor or grantee, and shall be on a
form provided by the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 35.059) (Ord. 87-4, passed 6-22-1987)
SALES TAX
§ 35.115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACQUIRED OUTSIDE THE VILLAGE. The delivery of tangible personal property
purchased in the village to the point of delivery outside the village.
   BULK VENDING MACHINE. A non-electrically operated vending machine containing
unsorted confections, nuts or other merchandise which, when a coin of a
denomination not larger than $0.01 is inserted, are dispensed in equal
portions, at random and without selection by the customer.
   DIRECTOR. The Village Clerk.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, society, foundation, institution,
partnership, association, joint stock company, joint venture, public or private
corporation or a receiver, executor, trustee, conservator or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. The acquisition of the ownership of or title to tangible
personal property through a sale at retail.
   PURCHASER. Any person who, through a sale at retail, acquires the ownership
of or title to tangible personal property for a valuable consideration.
   RECEIPTS. Receipts from sales of tangible personal property at retail with
respect to any period of time means the aggregate selling price received by a
seller during the period of time. In the case of charge and time sales,
RECEIPTS include consideration only as and when payments are received by the
seller.
   RETAILER. Every person engaged in the business of making sales at retail.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THE VILLAGE. Any retailer:
         (1)   Having or maintaining in the village, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution house, sales house, warehouse or other
place of business or any agent or other representative operating within the
village under the authority of the retailer or the retailer’s subsidiary,
regardless of whether the place of business or agent or other representative is
located here permanently or temporarily or whether the retailer or subsidiary
is licensed to do business in the village; or
         (2)   Engaging in soliciting orders within the village from users by
means of catalogues or other advertising, whether the orders are received or
accepted within or without the village.
   SALE AT RETAIL. Any transfer of the ownership of or title to tangible
personal property to a purchaser, for the purpose of use or consumption, and
not for the purpose of resale in any form as tangible personal property to the
extent not first subjected to a use for which it was purchased, for a valuable
consideration; provided, the property purchased is deemed purchased for the
purpose of resale despite being first used to the extent to which it is resold
as an ingredient of an intentionally produced product or byproduct of
manufacturing. Transactions whereby the possession of the property is
transferred but the seller retains the title as security for payment of the
selling price shall be deemed sales. SALE AT RETAIL shall be construed to
include any transfer of the ownership of or title to tangible personal property
to the purchaser for use or consumption by any other person to whom the
purchaser may transfer the tangible personal property without a valuable
consideration, for resale in any form as tangible personal property unless made
in compliance with §§
35.125 through
35.127. Sales of tangible personal property, which property, to the extent not
first subjected to a user for which it was purchased, as an ingredient or
constituent, goes into and forms a part of tangible personal property
subsequently the subject of a sale of retail, are not SALES AT RETAIL. SALES AT
RETAIL includes the transfer of ownership of or title to tangible personal
property for use or consumption incidental to a sale of a service.
   SELLING PRICE.
      (1)   The consideration for a sale at retail valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, property other than as
hereinafter provided, and services, but not including the value of or credit
given for trade-in tangible personal property where the item that is traded in
is of like kind and character as that which is being sold and shall determine
without any deduction on account of the cost of materials used, labor or
service cost or any other expense whatsoever but shall not include:
         (a)   The proceeds of any mandatory service charge which is separately
stated on customers’ bills for purchase and consumption of food and beverages,
if all the proceeds of the service charge are, in fact, turned over to the
employees who normally would have received tips had the service charge policy
not been introduced; or
         (b)   Charges that are added to the price by the seller on account of
the seller’s duty to collect, from the purchaser, the tax imposed upon the
purchaser under this subchapter or on account of a tax liability imposed upon
the seller or the purchaser under any other ordinance of the village or of any
other unit of local government or under any law of the state upon or in
connection with the sale, purchase or use.
      (2)   SELLING PRICE shall include consideration for a sale at retail
incidental to a sale of service to the extent the consideration constitutes a
cost price as defined in the State Service Use Tax. The phrase, LIKE KIND AND
CHARACTER shall be liberally construed, including, but not limited to, any form
of motor vehicle or any kind of farm or agricultural implement for any kind of
farm or agricultural implement, while not including a kind of item which, if
sold at retail by that retailer, would be exempt from tax hereunder as an
isolated or occasional sale.
   TAX COLLECTOR. A retailer maintaining a place of business in the village or
a retailer authorized by the village to collect the tax herein imposed.
   USE. The exercise by any person of any right to or power over tangible
personal property incident to the ownership of that property, except it does
not include the sale of the property in any form as tangible personal property
in the regular course of business to the extent the property is not first
subjected to a use for which it was purchased and does not include the use of
the property by its owner for sales demonstration purposes; provided the
property purchased is deemed to be purchased for the purpose of resale, despite
first being used, to the extent to which it is resold as an ingredient of an
intentionally produced product or byproduct of manufacturing. USE does not mean
the interim use of tangible personal property and does not mean the physical
incorporation of tangible personal property, to the extent not first subjected
to a user for which it was purchased, as an ingredient or constituent into
other tangible personal property which is sold in the regular course of
business or which the person incorporating the ingredient or constituent
therein has undertaken at the time of the purchase to cause to be transported
in interstate commerce to destinations outside the state or to destinations
outside the village and inside the state.
(Prior Code, § 35.070) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986)
§ 35.116 APPLICATION TO RETAIL PURCHASES.
   For a purchase or use of tangible personal property to be taxable under this
subchapter, the tangible personal property must have been purchased from a
retailer.
(Prior Code, § 35.071) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986)
§ 35.117 RATE.
   (A)   The rate at which the Home Rule Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax is
imposed in the village, pursuant to § 8-11-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, is
hereby decreased by 0.25% to reflect a total of 1.25%.
   (B)   The rate at which the Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax is
imposed in the village, pursuant to § 8-11-5 of the Illinois Municipal Code, is
hereby decreased by 0.25% to reflect a total of 1.25%.
(Prior Code, § 35.072) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986; Ord. 02-07, passed 3-26-
2002; Ord. 08-16, passed 7-22-2008) Penalty, see §
35.999
Editor’s note:
   A certified copy of Ord. 08-16 was filed with the Illinois Department of
Revenue on or before 10-1-2008. Pursuant to the terms of §§ 8-11-1 and 8-11-
5 of the Illinois Municipal Code, these taxes shall be administered and
enforced by the State Department of Revenue as of 1-1-2009.
§ 35.118 LIABILITY OF PURCHASER; COLLECTION; ELUDING LIABILITY.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter and the obligation to pay it is
upon the purchaser. The tax imposed hereunder shall be collected from the
purchaser by the Tax Collector and remitted to the Village Clerk, as provided
herein. The Tax Collector shall be liable to the village for the amount of tax
required to be collected.
      (1)   Retailers shall collect the tax from the purchasers by adding the
tax to the selling price of tangible personal property, when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the Clerk. Wherever possible the tax shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the selling
price of tangible personal property.
      (2)   The Clerk may adopt and promulgate reasonable rules and regulations
for the adding of the tax by the retailers to selling prices by prescribing
bracket systems for the purpose of enabling the retailers to add and collect as
far as practicable the amount of the tax.
      (3)   The tax not paid to a retailer pursuant to this subchapter shall be
paid to the Clerk directly by any person purchasing or using the property
within the village.
      (4)   If any seller collects an amount which purports to constitute taxes
measured by receipts which are not subject to the tax, of if any seller, in
collecting an amount, however designated, which purports to constitute taxes
measured by receipts which are subject to tax under this subchapter, collects
more from the purchaser than the actual tax liability on the transaction, the
purchaser shall have a legal right to claim a refund of the amount from the
seller. However, if the amount is not refunded to the purchaser for any reason,
the seller is liable to pay the amount to the Clerk.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply to an amount collected by the seller
on receipts which are subject to tax under this subchapter as long as the
collection is made in compliance with the tax collection brackets prescribed by
the Clerk in its rules and regulations.
   (C)   Any non-resident of the village who accepts the privilege extended by
the laws of the village to non-residents or acting as a retailer maintaining a
place of business in the village; any resident of the village who incurs
liability under this chapter and who subsequently removes from the village or
conceals his or her whereabouts; and any resident or non-resident who incurs
tax liability under this subchapter as a purchaser or user in the village and
who removes from the village or conceals his or her whereabouts shall be deemed
to appoint the Clerk his or her agent for the service of process or notice in
any judicial or administrative proceeding under this subchapter. The process or
notice shall be served by the Clerk on the Clerk by leaving, at the office of
the Clerk at least 15 days before the return day of the process or notice, a
true and certified copy thereof and by sending to the taxpayer or tax collector
by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, a like and true certified
copy, with an endorsement thereon of the service upon the Clerk, addressed to
the taxpayer or tax collector at his or her last known address.
(Prior Code, § 35.073) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.119 PERSONAL LIABILITY OF OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES.
   Any officer or employee of any corporation subject to the provisions of this
subchapter who has the control, supervision or responsibility of filing returns
and collecting and paying the amount of tax and who willfully fails to file the
return or to collect and make the payment to the Village Clerk shall be
personally liable for the amounts, including interest and penalties thereon, in
the event that after proper proceedings for the collection of the amounts, as
provided in this subchapter, the corporation is unable to pay the amounts to
the Clerk and the personal liability of the officer or employee, as provided
herein, shall survive the dissolution of the corporation.
(Prior Code, § 35.074) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.120 CERTIFICATION OF REGISTRATION AS TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Every retailer maintaining a place of business in the village shall
obtain a certificate of registration as a tax collector from the Village Clerk
no later than 30 days after beginning the business or 30 days after the
effective date of this subchapter, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   Application for a certificate of registration shall be made to the
Clerk on forms furnished by the Clerk. Each application shall be signed and
verified by the appliance or a properly accredited agent, which, in the case of
a corporation, shall include the president, any vice president, the secretary
or treasurer or some other properly accredited agent and shall state:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The addresses of the applicant’s home and principal place of
business;
      (3)   The address of the principal place of business from which he or she
is engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail in
the village and the addresses of all other places of business, if any
(enumerating the addresses, if any, in a separate list attached to and made a
part of the application) from which he or she engages in the business of
selling tangible personal property in the village;
      (4)   The applicant’s most recent gross receipts from the retail sale of
tangible personal property whether or not incidental to the sale of service as
reported to the State Department of Revenue;
      (5)   The applicant’s estimated receipts from sales of tangible personal
property at retail in the village for the current calendar year; and
      (6)   Other information the Clerk may reasonable require.
   (C)   If the applicant will sell tangible personal property at retail
through vending machines, that applicant’s application shall indicate the
number of vending machines to be so operated and, thereafter, the applicant
shall notify the Clerk by January 31 of the number of vending machines the
person was using in his or her business of selling tangible personal property
at retail on the preceding December 31.
(Prior Code, § 35.075) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.121 DEPOSITS APPLY TO LIABILITY.
   Any deposit previously made by a tax collector who is required to make
quarter-monthly payments under this subchapter shall be applied against the tax
collector’s liability to the Village Clerk for the month preceding the first
month in which the tax collector is required to make the payments. If the
deposit exceeds that liability, the Clerk may issue the Tax Collector a credit
memorandum for the excess.
(Prior Code, § 35.076) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.122 REVENUE DEPOSITED IN CORPORATE FUND.
   The money received by the Village Clerk under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be deposited in the corporate fund of the village.
(Prior Code, § 35.077) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.123 RETURNS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, every retailer required or
authorized to collect the tax imposed by this subchapter shall, on or before
the last day of each calendar month, file a return for the preceding calendar
month with the Village Clerk stating:
      (1)   The name of the retailer;
      (2)   The addresses of the retailer’s residence and principal place of
business and the address of the principal place of business if that is a
different address, from which the retailer sells tangible personal property in
the village;
      (3)   The total amount of receipts received by the retailer during the
preceding calendar month from sales of tangible personal property in the
village by the retailer during the preceding calendar month;
      (4)   The total amount received by the retailer during the preceding
calendar month on charge and time sales of tangible personal property in the
village by the retailer before the month for which the return is filed;
      (5)   Deductions allowed by law;
      (6)   Receipts which were received by the retailer during the preceding
calendar month and upon the basis of which the tax upon purchasers from the
retailer is imposed;
      (7)   The amount of tax due;
      (8)   The amount of penalty due, if any; and
      (9)   Other reasonable information the Clerk may require.
   (B)   If the retailer’s average monthly liability with the Clerk does not
exceed $20, the Clerk may authorize the retailer’s returns to be filed on an
annual basis, with the return for a given year being due by January 31 of the
following year. The annual returns, as to form and substance, shall be subject
to the same requirements as monthly returns.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter concerning the
time in which a retailer may file a return, in the case of any retailer who
ceases to engage in a kind of business which makes him or her responsible for
filing returns under this subchapter, the retailer shall file a final return
under this chapter with the Clerk not more than one month after discontinuing
the business.
   (D)   Where the same person has more than one business registered with the
Clerk under separate registrations under this subchapter, the person may not
file each return that is due as a single return covering all such registered
businesses, but shall file separate returns for each registered business.
   (E)   Where the retailer is a corporation, the return filed on behalf of the
corporation shall be signed by the president, vice president, secretary or
treasurer, the properly accredited agent of the corporation, the chief
executive officer or highest ranking manager.
   (F)   Except as provided in this division (F), the retailer filing the
return under this section shall, at the time of filing the return, pay the
Clerk the amount of tax imposed by this chapter less a discount of 2% or $5 per
calendar year, whichever is greater, which is allowed to reimburse the seller
for the expenses incurred in collecting the tax, keeping records, preparing and
filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the Clerk on request.
However, the discount of 2% or $5 shall not be allowed for any taxes not paid
when due.
   (G)   All deposits shall be credited against the tax collector’s liabilities
under this subchapter.
   (H)   If the tax collector’s average monthly liability to the Clerk under
this subchapter was $4,000 or more during the preceding four complete calendar
quarters, the tax collector shall file a return with the Clerk each month by
the end of the month next following the month during which the liability is
incurred and shall make payments to the Clerk on or before the last day of the
month during which the liability is incurred in an amount equal to the tax
collector’s actual liability for the month or in an amount set by the Clerk.
   (I)   The provisions of this section concerning the filing of an annual
information return do not apply to a retailer who is not required to file an
income tax return with the United States government.
   (J)   If the annual information return required by this section is not filed
when and as required, the tax collector shall be liable for a penalty equal to
1/6% of the amount due from the tax collector during the period to be covered
by the annual return for each month or fraction of a month until the return is
filed as required, the penalty to be assessed and collected in the same manner
as any other penalty provided for in this subchapter.
   (K)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer, chief executive
officer, proprietor, owner or highest ranking manager shall sign any return
required to be filed under this section to certify the accuracy of the
information contained therein. Any person who willfully signs any such return
containing false or inaccurate information shall be guilty of a violation of
this subchapter and punished accordingly.
   (L)   Any retailer filing a return under this section also shall include,
for the purpose of paying tax thereon, the total tax, if any, imposed upon him
or her hereunder for the purchase or use of tangible personal property
purchased by him or her at retail from a retailer, but as to which the tax
imposed by this subchapter was not collected from the retailer filing the
return and the retailer shall remit the amount of the tax to the Clerk when
filing the return. The retailer will be entitled to the 2% or $5 discount
provided in division (F) above, on the remittance, unless the retailer could
have paid the tax to the seller of the property who was a registered tax
collector for the village, instead of remitting the tax due directly to the
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 35.078) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.124 FAILURE TO FILE RETURNS.
   (A)   In case a person engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property at retail fails to file a return when and as herein required but
thereafter, before the Village Clerk’s issuance of a notice of tax liability
under this section, files a return and pays the tax, he or she also shall pay a
penalty of 5% of the amount of the tax.
   (B)   In case any person engaged in the business of selling tangible
personal property at retail files the return at the time required by this
subchapter, but fails to file the return at the time required by this chapter,
but fails to pay the tax, or any part thereof, when due, a penalty of 5% of the
amount of the unpaid tax shall be added thereto.
   (C)   In case any person engaged in the business of selling tangible
personal property at retail fails to file a return when and as herein required
but thereafter, before the Clerk’s issuance of a notice of tax liability under
this section, files a return but fails to pay the entire tax, a penalty of 5%
of the full amount of the tax shown by the return shall be added thereto.
   (D)   In case any person engaged in the business of selling tangible
personal property at retail fails to file a return, the Clerk shall determine
the amount of tax due according to the best judgement and information, which
amount so fixed by the Clerk shall be prima facie correct and shall be prima
facie evidence of the correctness of the amount of tax due, as shown in the
determination. In making any such determination of tax due, it shall be
permissible for the Clerk to show a figure that represents the tax due for any
given period of six months instead of showing the amount of tax due for each
month separately. Proof of the determination by the Clerk may be made at any
hearing before the Clerk or in any legal proceeding by the reproduced copy of
the Clerk’s record relating thereto in the name of the Clerk under the
certificate of the Clerk. The reproduced copy shall, without further proof, be
admitted into evidence before the Clerk or in any legal proceeding and shall be
prima facie proof of the correctness of the amount of tax due, as shown
therein. The Clerk shall issue the tax collector a notice of tax liability for
the amount of tax claimed by the Clerk to be due, together with a penalty of
20% thereof.
   (E)   Where the failure to file any tax return required under this
subchapter on the date prescribed therefor, including any extensions, is due to
reasonable cause the penalties imposed by this subchapter shall not apply.
   (F)   In case of failure to pay the tax, or any portion thereof or any
penalty provided for in this chapter, or interest, when due, the Clerk may
bring suit against the tax collector or the purchaser or user to recover the
amount of the tax or portion thereof or penalty or interest, or, if the tax
collector or purchaser or user has died or become incompetent, may file a claim
therefor against his or her estate.
(Prior Code, § 35.079) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.125 INTEREST RATES.
   (A)   In addition to any penalty provided for in this subchapter, any amount
of tax which is not paid when due shall bear interest at the rate of 2% per
month or fraction thereof from the date when the tax becomes past due until the
tax is paid or a judgement therefor is obtained by the Village Clerk.
   (B)   If the time for making or completing an audit of a tax collector’s
books and records is extended with the tax collector’s consent, at the request
of and for the convenience of the State Department of Revenue, beyond the date
on which the statute of limitations upon the issuance of a notice of tax
liability by the Clerk otherwise would run, no interest shall accrue during the
period of the extension.
(Prior Code, § 35.080) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.126 PENALTIES AND INTEREST NOT TO BAR FURTHER COLLECTION OR PROSECUTION.
   The collection of tax, penalty or interest by any means provided for herein
shall not be a bar to collection by any other means or to any prosecution under
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.081) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.127 RECORDS.
   (A)   Every person engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property at retail in the village shall keep records and books of all the
sales, together with invoices, sales records, copies of bills of sale,
inventories prepared as of December 31 of each year other otherwise annually as
has been the custom in the specific trade and other pertinent papers and
documents. Every person engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property at retail in the village and who, in connection with the business,
also engages in other activities (including, but not limited to, engaging in a
sales of goods occupation) shall keep additional records and books of all
activities as will accurately reflect the character and scope of the activities
and the amount of receipts realized therefrom.
   (B)   All books, records, papers and documents required by this subchapter
to be kept shall be kept in the English language and shall, at all times during
business hours, be subject to inspection by the Village Clerk or the Clerk’s
duly authorized agents and employees.
   (C)   Books, records and other papers reflecting receipts received during
any period, with respect to which the Clerk is authorized to issue notices of
tax liability, shall be preserved until the expiration of the period unless the
Clerk, in writing, shall authorize their destruction or disposal before the
expiration.
(Prior Code, § 35.082) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.128 PROOF OF THINGS NOT TAXABLE.
   (A)   To support deductions made on the tax return form or authorized under
this subchapter on account of receipts from isolated or occasional sales on
account of receipts from sales to governmental bodies or other exempted types
of purchasers on account of receipts from sales in interstate commerce and on
account of receipts from any other kind of transaction that is not taxable
under this subchapter, entries in any books, records or other pertinent papers
or documents of the tax collector in relation thereto shall be in detail
sufficient to show the name and address of the tax collector’s customer in each
transaction, the character of each transaction, the date of every transaction,
the amount of receipts realized from it and other information necessary to
establish the non-taxable character of the transaction under this subchapter.
This does not apply to §
35.141(I).
   (B)   It shall be presumed that all purchases or uses of tangible personal
property purchased at retail are subject to tax under this subchapter until the
contrary is established. The burden of proving a transaction is not taxable
shall be upon the person who would be required to pay the tax or remit the tax
to the Clerk if the transaction is taxable. In the course of any audit,
investigation or hearing by the Clerk with reference to a given tax collector
or purchaser, if the Clerk finds the person lacks documentary evidence needed
to support the claim that no tax is due hereunder, the Clerk is authorized to
notify the person in writing to produce the evidence. The person shall have 60
days, subject to the right of the Clerk to extend this period either on request
for good cause shown or motion from the date when the notice is sent by
certified or registered mail or delivered, if the notice is served personally,
in which to obtain and produce evidence for the Clerk’s inspection. Failing
which, the matter shall be closed and the transaction shall be conclusively
presumed to be taxable.
(Prior Code, § 35.083) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.129 SERVICE OF PROCESS; NOTICE.
   (A)   Service of process or notice in the manner provided for in this
section, under the circumstances specified in this section, shall be of the
same force and validity as if served upon the taxpayer or tax collector
personally within the village. Proof of the service upon the taxpayer or tax
collector through the Village Clerk as his or her agent and by mailing to the
last known address of the taxpayer or tax collector may be made in the judicial
or administrative proceeding by the affidavit of the Clerk or the Clerk’s duly
authorized representative who made the service, with a copy of the process or
notice that was so served attached to the affidavit.
   (B)   Whenever notice is required by this subchapter, the notice may be
given by United States registered or certified mail, addressed to the person
concerned at his or her last known address. Proof of the mailing shall be
sufficient for the purposes of this subchapter. Notice of any hearing provided
for by this subchapter shall be given not less than seven days before the day
fixed for the hearing. Following the initial contact of a person represented by
an attorney, the Clerk shall not contact the person concerned, but shall
contact only the attorney representing the person concerned.
(Prior Code, § 35.084) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.130 DUTIES OF VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to collect and receive the
tax imposed by this subchapter.
   (B)   The Clerk shall keep an accurate and separate account of all such tax
payments received, showing the name and address of the person remitting the tax
and the date of each payment.
   (C)   The Clerk is hereby empowered to adopt, promulgate and enforce rules
and regulations relating to any matter or thing pertaining to the
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter, including
provisions for reexamination, correction and amendment of all returns.
   (D)   The Clerk or any agent or employee designated in writing by the Clerk
is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers and records of any tax
collector during regular business hours in order to verify the accuracy of any
return made or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax imposed by this
subchapter.
   (E)   If it shall appear to the Clerk any person has violated any provisions
of this subchapter or any rule or regulation promulgated hereunder, or if the
amount of any tax payment is incorrect in that it does not include all taxes
payable for the calendar quarter or period or if the Clerk shall find the
collection of any taxes which have accrued, but are not yet due, will be
jeopardized by delay, declares the taxes immediately due and payable, or if it
shall appear to the Clerk he or she has, by reason of any act or omission or by
operation of law, become liable for the payment of any taxes, interest or
penalties not originally incurred by him or her, the Clerk may, in any of those
events, determine and assess the amount of the taxes or deficiency, together
with the interest and penalties due and unpaid and immediately service notice
upon the person of the determination and assessment and demand payment of the
tax, interest and penalties.
(Prior Code, § 35.085) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.131 DUTY OF VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   When any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the Village
Attorney shall, upon request of the Village Clerk, bring or cause to be brought
in any court of competent jurisdiction an action to enforce the payment of the
tax on behalf of the village.
(Prior Code, § 35.086) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.132 HEARINGS.
   All hearings provided for in this subchapter shall be held at the Village
Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 35.087) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.133 ISOLATED OR OCCASIONAL SALES; REAL ESTATE AND CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The isolated or occasional sale of tangible personal property at
retail by a person who does not hold himself or herself out as being engaged or
who does not habitually engage in selling the tangible personal property at
retail or a sale through a bulk vending machine does not constitute the person
a retailer within the means of this subchapter; provided that, any person who
is engaged in a business which is not subject to the tax collection obligation
imposed by this subchapter because of involving the sale of or a contract to
sell real estate or a construction contract to improve real estate but who, in
the course of conducting the business, transfers tangible personal property to
users or consumers in the finished form in which it was purchased and which
does not become real estate under any provision of a construction contract or
retail estate sale or real estate sales agreement entered into with some other
person arising out of or because of the business which is not subject to the
collection obligation, is a retailer to the extent of the value of the tangible
personal property so transferred.
   (B)   If, in the transaction described in division (A) above, a separate
charge is made for the tangible personal property so transferred the value of
the property, for the purpose of this subchapter, shall be the amount so
separately charged, but not less than the cost of the property to the
transferor. If no separate charge is made, the value of the property is the
cost to the transferor of the property.
(Prior Code, § 35.088) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.134 SALES OF SERVICES.
   A person who holds himself or herself out as being engaged, or who
habitually engages, in selling tangible personal property at retail is a
retailer hereunder with respect to such sales, notwithstanding the fact the
person is a service man or service woman engaging in sales of services for the
purposes of the Village Municipal Service Occupation Tax.
(Prior Code, § 35.089) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.135 REDEMPTION OF TRADING STAMPS.
   Persons who engage in the business of transferring personal property upon
the redemption of trading stamps are retailers hereunder and shall collect and
pay the tax imposed by this subchapter on the basis of the retail value of the
property transferred upon redemption of the stamps.
(Prior Code, § 35.090) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.136 NOT-FOR-PROFIT ENTERPRISES.
   (A)   A person whose activities are organized and conducted primarily as a
not-for-profit enterprise and who engages in selling tangible personal property
at retail, whether to the public or merely to members and their guests, is a
retailer with respect to the transactions, excepting only a person organized
operated exclusively for charitable, religious or educational purposes, either:
      (1)   To the extent of sales by the person if members, students, patients
or inmates of tangible personal property to be used primarily for the purposes
of the person; or
      (2)   To the extent of sales by the personal of tangible personal
property which is not sold or offered for sale by persons organized for profit.
   (B)   The selling of school books and school supplies by schools at retail
to students is not primarily for the purposes of the school which does the
selling.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to, nor subject to,
taxation of occasional dinners, socials or similar activities organized and
operated exclusively for charitable, religious or educational purposes, whether
or not the activities are open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 35.091) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.137 MOTOR VEHICLES AND AIRCRAFT.
   (A)   (1)   A person who is engaged in the business of leasing or renting
motor vehicles to others and who, in connection with the business, sells any
used motor vehicle to a purchaser for his or her use and not for the purpose of
resale, is a retailer engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property at retail under this subchapter to the extent of the value of the
vehicle sold.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the meaning
prescribed by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146, as now or hereafter amended.
      (3)   Nothing provided herein shall affect liability incurred under this
subchapter because of the sale at retail of the motor vehicle to a lessor.
   (B)   (1)   Every retailer of motor vehicles and aircraft shall file with
the Village Clerk, upon a form to be prescribed and supplied by the Clerk, a
separate return for each such item of tangible personal property which the
retailer sells; except that, where, in the same transaction, a retailer of
motor vehicles transfers more than one motor vehicle to another motor vehicle
retailer for the purpose of resale, the seller for resale may report the
transfer of all the motor vehicles involved in that transaction to the Clerk on
the same uniform invoice transaction reporting return form.
      (2)   The transaction reporting return in the case of motor vehicles
shall be in the same document as the uniform invoice referred to in ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 5-402, and must show the name and address of the seller, the name
and address of the purchaser, the amount of the selling price, the amount
allowed by the retailer for the traded-in property, if any, to the extent to
which an exemption is allowed for the value of traded-in property; the balance
payable after deducting the trade-in allowance from the total selling price,
the amount of tax due from the retailer with respect to the transaction, the
amount of tax collected from the purchaser by the retailer on the transaction
(or satisfactory evidence the tax is not due in that particular instance, if
that is claimed to be the fact); the place and date of the sale, a sufficient
identification of the property sold, other information as is required in ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 5-402, and other information the Clerk may reasonably
require.
(Prior Code, § 35.092) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.138 RECEIPTS.
   (A)   Except as to motor vehicles and other items of tangible personal
property which must be titled or registered under a state law, but which cannot
be so titled or registered without a use tax receipt or exemptions
determination from the State Department of Revenue, every retailer maintaining
a place of business in the village and making sales of tangible personal
property for use in the village, whether the sales are made within or without
the village shall, when collecting the tax from the purchaser, give the
purchaser, if demanded, a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed by
the Village Clerk. The receipt shall be sufficient to relieve the purchaser
from further liability from the tax to which the receipt may refer.
   (B)   Each retailer shall list with the Clerk the names and addresses of all
his or her agents operating in the village and the location of any and all of
his or her distribution or sale houses, offices or other places of business in
the village.
(Prior Code, § 35.093) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.139 RETAILERS WITHOUT PLACES OF BUSINESS IN THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk may, in his or her discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the village sales tax by any retailer not
maintaining a place of business within the village who, to the satisfaction of
the Clerk, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of the
tax. The retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect the tax.
   (B)   When authorized as provided in division (A) above, it shall be the
duty of the retailer to collect the tax upon all tangible personal property
sold to his or her knowledge for use within the village in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements, including the furnishing of a receipt to the
purchases, if demanded by the purchaser, as a retailer maintaining a place of
business within the village. The receipt given the purchaser shall be
sufficient to relieve him or her from further liability for the tax to which
the receipt may refer. The permit may be revoked by the Clerk as provided
herein.
(Prior Code, § 35.094) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
Cross-reference:
   Liability of purchaser; collection; eluding liability, see §
35.118
§ 35.140 CONCESSIONS, ART SHOWS, FLEA MARKETS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property at retail as a concessionaire or other type of seller at art shows,
flea markets and similar exhibitions or events may be required to make a daily
report of the amount of the sales to the Village Clerk and to make a daily
payment of the full amount of tax due.
      (1)   The Clerk shall impose this requirement when it finds there is a
significant risk of loss of revenue to the village at such an exhibition or
event.
      (2)   Such a finding shall be based on evidence that a substantial number
of concessionaires or other sellers who are not residents of the village will
be engaging in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail at
the exhibition or event or other devices of a significant risk of loss of
revenue to the village.
   (B)   The Clerk shall notify concessionaires and other sellers affected by
the imposition of this requirement. In the absence of notification by the Clerk
the concessionaires and other sellers shall file their returns as otherwise
required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.095) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.141 EXEMPTIONS.
   Purchases or uses of tangible personal property under the following
circumstances shall not be subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter:
   (A)   Newsprint and ink which was sold at retail for the primary purpose of
conveying news, with or without other information;
   (B)   Pollution control facilities or low sulfur dioxide emission coal-
fueled devices;
   (C)   Purchases or uses by any governmental body or any corporation,
society, association, foundation or institution organized and operated
exclusively for charitable, religious or educational purposes, any not-for-
profit corporation, society, association, foundation, institution or
organization which has no compensated officers or employees and which is
organized and operated primarily for the recreation of persons 55 years of age
or older;
   (D)   Purchases or uses of property by interstate carriers for hire as
rolling stock moving in interstate commerce or purchases or uses by lessors
under leases of one year or longer executed or in effect at the time of
purchase to interstate carriers for hire for use as rolling stock moving in
interstate commerce as long as so used by the interstate carriers for hire;
   (E)   Property acquired outside the village by a non-resident individual and
brought into the village by that individual for his or her own use while
temporarily within the village;
   (F)   Temporary storage in the village of property acquired outside the
village and which, subsequent to being brought into the village, is used solely
outside the village or physically attached to or incorporated into other
tangible personal property that is used solely outside the village or is
altered by converting, fabricating, manufacturing, printing processing or
shaping and, as altered, is used solely outside the village;
   (G)   Temporary storage in the village of building materials and fixtures
acquired either in the village or outside the village by a state registered
combination retailer and construction contractor and which purchaser thereafter
uses outside this village by incorporating the property into real estate
located outside the village;
   (H)   Property which is acquired outside the village by a non-resident
individual who brings the property to the village for use here and who has used
the property outside the village for at least three months before bringing it
into the village;
   (I)   Food for human consumption which is to be consumed off the premises
where it is sold, other than alcoholic beverages and food which has been
prepared for immediate consumption, and prescription and non-prescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics for human use;
   (J)   Where a business that is not operated in the village but which does
operate elsewhere is moved to the village or opens an office, plant or other
business facility in the village, the business shall not be taxed on its use,
in the village, of used tangible personal property which the business bought
outside the village and used outside the village in the operation of the
business for at least three months before moving the used property to the
village for use here;
   (K)   Jet fuel delivered to an airport directly by pipeline from outside the
state;
   (L)   Use in the village of property acquired outside the village and caused
to be brought into the village by a person who already has paid a tax in
another city in respect to the sale, purchase or use of the property to the
extent the amount of the tax paid in the other city exceeds an amount allowed
as a credit against the Illinois Use Tax or any local use tax in the state.
This exemption is not applicable to the taxes paid under the Municipal
Retailer’s Occupation Tax, Municipal Use Tax, Municipal Service Occupation Tax
or any other retailers’ occupation tax or use tax in the state, except for
taxes paid under sales or use taxes imposed solely under the home rule powers
of a taxing unit in the state; and
   (M)   Purchases of non-retail property where the personal property is
purchased for resale to a third party and which is, by its nature, to be
incorporated as an ingredient into a finished product, such as construction
materials to contractors and the like.
(Prior Code, § 35.096) (Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986; Ord. 87-2, passed 6-22-
1987)
MOTOR FUEL TAX
§ 35.155 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR FUEL. All volatile liquids compounded or used for fueling motor
vehicles, including gasoline, gasohol, compressed natural gas and diesel fuel.
   MOTOR FUEL RETAILER. Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business
of selling motor fuel at retail, and not for resale.
(Ord. 11-09, passed 4-12-2011)
§ 35.156 TAX IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed and levied a tax upon the retail purchase within the
village of motor fuel, at the rate of $0.01 per gallon or fraction thereof.
This tax shall be in addition to any and all other taxes. The ultimate
incidence and liability for payment of the tax shall be upon the retail
purchaser of motor fuel. Nothing herein shall be construed to impose a tax upon
the occupation of selling motor fuel.
(Ord. 11-09, passed 4-12-2011)
§ 35.157 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   Each motor fuel retailer in the village shall have the duty to collect the
motor fuel tax from each purchaser and to pay it over to the village, along
with an accounting therefore, on return forms provided by the village. The
return and tax payment shall be filed with the Director of Finance on the same
filing dates as are established for filing with the State Department of Revenue
of the Retailer’s Occupational Tax Return Form RR-1-A.
(Ord. 11-09, passed 4-12-2011)
§ 35.158 REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Each motor fuel retailer shall register with the village on forms
provided by the Finance Director.
   (B)   Each motor fuel retailer shall have the duty to maintain complete and
accurate books, records and accounts showing the gross receipts for the sale of
motor fuel and the taxes collected from the purchaser thereof, which shall be
available in the village for examination and for audit by the village upon
reasonable notice during customary business hours.
(Ord. 11-09, passed 4-12-2011)
§ 35.159 LATE PAYMENT PENALTY.
   (A)   If any tax imposed by this subchapter is not paid over to the village
when due, a late payment penalty equal to 1% of the unpaid tax shall be added
for each month, or any portion thereof, that the tax remains unpaid and the
total of the late payment penalty shall be paid along with the tax imposed
hereby.
   (B)   The village may bring a civil action to collect any unpaid tax or
penalty.
(Ord. 11-09, passed 4-12-2011)
ENTERTAINMENT TAX
§ 35.170 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENTERTAINMENT. Any exhibition, performance, presentation or show for
entertainment purposes, including, but not limited to, any theatrical,
dramatic, musical or spectacular performance, promotional show, motion picture
show, flower, poultry or animal show, animal act, circus, rodeo, athletic
contest, sport, game or similar exhibition, music presented by a disk jockey or
“DJ”.
(Ord. 95-2, passed 6-19-1995; Ord. 01-04, passed 5-22-2001)
§ 35.171 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   An entertainment tax is imposed upon the patrons of any theater or other
business providing entertainment, for which an admission fee or other charge is
paid for the privilege to enter, view or participate in the entertainment,
within the village, in an amount equal to $1.75 per admission.
(Ord. 95-2, passed 6-19-1995; Ord. 01-04, passed 5-22-2001)
§ 35.172 EXEMPTIONS.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be not imposed upon the privilege
of witnessing or participating in any entertainment conducted by and the
proceeds of which, after payment of reasonable expenses, inure exclusively to:
   (A)   Any non-profit corporation or organization operating for educational,
civic, charitable or religious purposes;
   (B)   Any governmental organization or agency, municipal corporation or body
politic of any kind; or
   (C)   Any of the following, if not operated for the profit of any person or
persons: professional organizations, labor unions, industrial organizations,
business associations and political parties.
(Ord. 95-2, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 35.173 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, manager or operator of any theater or
business providing entertainment to secure from each patron the tax imposed by
this subchapter and to remit the tax to the village.
(Ord. 95-2, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 35.174 ACCOUNTING AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   On or before the fifteenth day of each month, every theater or other
business providing entertainment shall prepare a return, in the form provided
by the Village Clerk, showing the name and address of the business, the number
of admissions per performance, and the amount of tax collected in the preceding
month. Every theater and business providing entertainment shall remit the
amount of tax collected to the Village Clerk upon filing of the return.
   (B)   Cancelled admission tickets and complete and accurate records of
admissions shall be kept at the theater or other business providing
entertainment, or at another place within the village as may be designated in
writing by the person liable for the collection of the taxes. All books and
records shall be open to inspection by the village at all reasonable times
during business hours of the day.
(Ord. 95-2, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 35.175 REPLACEMENT OF LICENSE FEE.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall supersede and replace that portion
of the license fee abolished by this section and set out in §
112.15 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 95-2, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 35.176 FURTHER ACTS.
   All acts and doings of the officials of the village which are in conformity
with the purposes and intent of this subchapter are hereby in all respects
ratified, approved and confirmed.
(Ord. 95-2, passed 6-19-1995)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX AND INFRASTRUCTURE FEE
§ 35.190 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS CHARGES.
      (1)   The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act of
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the village,
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of
every kind or nature, shall be determined without any deduction on account of
the cost of the telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS CHARGES for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the village, and charges for that portion of the interstate inter-office
channel provided within the village.
      (2)   However, GROSS CHARGES shall not include:
         (a)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
under:
            1.   The fee imposed by this section;
            2.   Additional charges added to purchaser’s bill under §§ 9-221 or
9-222 of the Public Utilities Act;
            3.   Amounts collected under § 8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal
Code;
            4.   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act;
            5.   911 surcharges; or
            6.   The tax imposed by § 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (b)   Charges for a sent-collect telecommunication received outside
the village;
         (c)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage
of data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. The equipment includes, but
is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
         (d)   Charges for customer equipment, including equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein the charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
         (e)   Charges to business enterprise certified under § 9-222.1 of the
Public Utilities Act to the extent of the exemption and during the period of
time specified by the village;
         (f)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
represent expense allocation between the corporation and not the generation of
profit other than a regulatory required profit for the corporation rendering
the services;
         (g)   Bad debts ( BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related
to a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
         (h)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated
telecommunications devices; or
         (i)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided to the village.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any municipal street, alley, water or public right-of-
way dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility
easements wherein the village has acquired the right and authority to locate or
permit the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any real or personal village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the public right-of-way.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. (or any like term).
Any retailer having or maintaining within the state, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative operating within the state under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether the place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether the
retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in the state.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one corporation to another corporation is not greater than the
gross charge paid to the retailer for its use or consumption and not for sale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of the customer’s
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the location in
the state where bills are sent.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall also include wireless telecommunications as
hereinafter defined. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services
in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code and protocol of the information for purposed other than transmission.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider of use as a component part of the service
provided by him or her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer access charges right of
access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities, and all
telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and used as a component
of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications service shall not be
included in gross charges as sales for resale. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not
include the provision of cable services through a cable system as defined in
the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 and following) as now or
hereafter amended or cable or other programming services subject to an open
video system fee payable to the village through an open video system as defined
in the rules of the Federal Communication Commission (47 C.D.F. §§ 76.1550 and
following) as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any telecommunication retailer; and any person
that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs, owns, operates or
controls equipment in the public right-of-way that is used or designed to be
used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER or RETAILER or CARRIER. Every person engaged in
the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined in this
section. The village may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of
business within the state, who, to the satisfaction of the village, furnishes
adequate security to ensure collection and payment of the fee. When so
authorized, it shall be the duty of the RETAILER to pay the fee upon all of the
gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within the village.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes cellular mobiles telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in § 704(C) of the Telecommunications Act
of 1996 (Pub. Law No. 104-104), 42 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7), as now or hereafter
amended, including all commercial mobile radio services and paging services.
(Ord. 97-7, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 35.191 REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Every telecommunications provider, as defined by this subchapter,
shall register with the village within 30 days after the effective date of this
subchapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on a
form to be provided by the village; provided, however, that, any
telecommunication retailer that has filed a return pursuant to §
35.193(C) of this chapter shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with
this section.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the village
pursuant to division (A) above has an affirmative duty to submit an amended
registration form or current return as required by §
35.193(C) of this chapter, as the case may be, to the village within 30 days
from the date of the occurrence of any charges in the information provided by
the telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent return
of file with the village.
(Ord. 97-7, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 35.192 MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE.
   (A)   A village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailer in the amount of 1.0% of all gross
charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service addresses within
the village for telecommunications originating or received in the village.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this subchapter, the village infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights-of-way within the village by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee authorized by this section
shall be collected, enforced and administered as set forth in §
35.193 of this chapter.
   (C)   The village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this section shall be collected, enforced and administered as set
forth in §
35.193 of this chapter.
(Ord. 97-7, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 35.193 COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF FEES.
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer’s service address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the Village Clerk the infrastructure
maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the
village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in
which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that, the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed 2% of the
village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse itself for
expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the village shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the Village Clerk, fee
may be imposed in quarter increments of not more than 1.0% which shall contain
information as the Village Clerk may reasonably require.
   (D)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant
to this subchapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by the
telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the village. The charge imposed under division
(A) above by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this subchapter shall
constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides the services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for the services.
   (E)   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee
has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether
as a result of a mistake of fact due, or to become due, under this subchapter,
from the telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous payment; provided,
however, the Village Clerk may request, and telecommunications retailer shall
provide, written substantiation for the credit. However, no claim for the
credit may be made more than three years after the date of the erroneous
payment unless:
      (1)   The credit is used only to offset a claim of underpayment made by
the village within the applicable statutory period of limitations; and
      (2)   The credit derives from an overpayment made by the same
telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory period of
limitations.
   (F)   Amounts paid under this subchapter by telecommunications retailer
shall not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as
described immediately below:
      (1)   “Gross charges” for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax
Act;
      (2)   “Gross receipts” for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in § 8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code;
      (3)   “Gross charges” for purposes of the municipal telecommunications
tax as prescribed in § 8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal Code; and
      (4)   “Gross revenue” for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in § 2-2-2 of the Public Utilities Act.
   (G)   The village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the
books and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this
subchapter to determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly
accounted to the village for the village infrastructure maintenance fee due to
the village by the telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the village,
plus 5% of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus
any costs incurred by the village in conducting the audit, in an amount not to
exceed 5% of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit. The
sum shall be paid to the village within 21 days after the date of issuance of
an invoice for same.
   (H)   The Village Clerk, or his or her designee, may promulgate such further
or additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter, consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to
time and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered
pursuant to §
35.191 of this chapter of the regulations.
(Ord. 97-7, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 35.194 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall excuse any person or entry from obligations
imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Generally applicable taxes;
   (B)   Standards for construction on, over, under or within, use of or repair
of the public rights-of-way, as provided;
   (C)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with the generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under or within,
use of or repair of the public rights-of-way; and
   (D)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this code concerning
uses or structures not located on, over or within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 97-7, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 35.195 EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES.
   Any franchise, license or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the village entered into before the effective date of this
subchapter regarding the use of public rights-of-way shall remain valid
according to and for their stated terms, except for any fees, charges or other
compensation to the extent waived.
(Ord. 97-7, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 35.196 PENALTIES.
   Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of this subchapter shall be subject to fine in
accordance with the general penalty provisions of the village’s code of
ordinances.
(Ord. 97-7, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 35.197 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 97-7, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 35.198 WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The village hereby waives all fees, charges and other compensation
that may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the village by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing village franchise, license
or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the time the
village imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee. This
waiver shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure maintenance
fee provided for in this subchapter is subject to being lawfully imposed on the
telecommunications retailer and collected by the telecommunications retailer
from the customer.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail/
return receipt requested to each telecommunications retailer with whom the
village has a franchise.
   (C)   The village infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this
subchapter shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not
less than 90 days after the village provides written notice by certified mail
to each telecommunications retailer with whom the village has an existing
franchise, license or similar agreement that the village waives all
compensation under the existing franchise, license or similar agreement during
the time as the fee is subject to being lawfully imposed and collected by the
retailer and remitted to the village. The infrastructure maintenance fee shall
apply to gross charges billed on or after the effective date as established in
the preceding sentence.
(Ord. 97-7, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 35.199 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX RATE.
   (A)   The rate of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed
under the provisions of §§ 5-25 and 5-30 of the Simplified Municipal
Telecommunications Tax Act, Pub. Act No. 92-0526, is hereby changed to 6%.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval and publication in pamphlet form as required by law;
provided, however, that, division (A) above shall take effect for all gross
charges billed by telecommunications retailers on and after 1-1-2004. The
Municipal Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this section
with the State Department of Revenue on or before 9-30-2003.
(Ord. 02-29, passed 9-24-2002; Ord. 03-22, passed 8-12-2003)
CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
§ 35.220 TAX IMPOSED; RATE.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the village at the rate of 3%
of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that business.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-22.
(Ord. 19-16, passed 9-27-2019)
§ 35.221 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue ("Department"). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this subchapter, and any such tax
that is collected by such retailer and that is required to be remitted to the
Department, shall constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state.
Retailers may reimburse themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder
by separately stating that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be
stated in combination, or in a single amount, with any state tax that sellers
are required to collect.
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 19-16, passed 9-27-2019)
PUSH TAX ON OPERATION OF VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS
§ 35.230 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter, except as otherwise provided, shall apply
to all amusements as hereinafter defined, whether specifically licensed or
regulated under other provisions of this Code or other ordinances, or not.
(Ord. 21-24, passed 10-31-2021)
§ 35.231 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT.
      (1)   Any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance,
motion picture show, flower, poultry or animal show, animal act, circus, rodeo,
athletic contest, sport, game or similar exhibition for public entertainment,
including, without being limited to, boxing, wrestling, skating, dancing,
swimming, racing, or riding on animals or vehicles, baseball, basketball,
softball, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and field games, bowling,
billiard and pool games.
      (2)   Any entertainment offered for public participation, including,
without being limited to, dancing, carnival, amusement park rides and games,
bowling, billiard and pool games, or any video gaming terminal.
   PERSON. Any natural individual that participates in an amusement, including
a firm, organization, society, foundation, institution, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, limited  liability company,
public or private corporation, receiver, executor, trustee or other
representative appointed by order of any court, or any other entity recognized
by law.
   PLAY. Each individual push of the video gaming terminal which initiates the
simulation provided by the video gaming terminal. PLAY shall not include the
push of individual wager amounts, selection of types of games on the video
gaming terminal or entry of any information or printing of winning receipts.
   TERMINAL OPERATOR. Any individual, partnership, corporation, or limited
liability company that is licensed under the Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230,
Act 40, §§ 1 et seq., and that owns, services, and maintains video gaming
terminals for placement in licensed establishments, licensed truck stop
establishments, licensed large truck stop establishments, licensed fraternal
establishments, or licensed veterans establishments.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any combination thereof, is
available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including but not
limited to video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the Illinois
Gaming Board utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player
may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does
not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only.
(Ord. 21-24, passed 10-31-2021)
§ 35.232 AMUSEMENT TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this subchapter, an amusement tax is
imposed upon any person who participates in the play of a video gaming terminal
that takes place within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Village of Stone
Park.
   (B)   The rate of the tax shall be equal to $0.01 per play on a video gaming
terminal.
   (C)   The terminal operator of a video gaming terminal may separately
itemize and charge each person who plays a video gaming terminal.
(Ord. 21-24, passed 10-31-2021)
§ 35.233 TAX ADDITIONAL.
   The tax imposed in this subchapter is in addition to all other taxes imposed
by the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation or political subdivision
thereof.
(Ord. 21-24, passed 10-31-2021)
§ 35.234 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal(s) located in the
village shall apply for registration as a tax collector with the village no
later than 30 days after commencing such business or 30 days after the
effective date of this subchapter imposing the Push Tax, whichever occurs
later.
   (B)   The application shall be submitted to the village on the forms
provided by the village and contain such information as reasonably required by
the village to impose, collect, and audit all amounts related to the Push Tax.
(Ord. 21-24, passed 10-31-2021)
§ 35.235 COLLECTION, PAYMENT, AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   It shall be the joint and several duty of every terminal operator of a
video gaming terminal(s) to secure from each person participating in the play
of a video gaming terminal the Push Tax imposed by this subchapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, it shall be presumed that the amount
of the Push Tax imposed on each person, unless the taxpayer or tax collector
provides otherwise with books, records, or other documentary evidence, has been
collected from the person by the terminal operator.
   (C)   Push Tax payments accompanied by tax returns prescribed by the village
shall be remitted to the village on or before the 20th day of the month
following the month in which payment for the Push Tax is made.
   (D)   Every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal who is required to
collect the Push Tax by this subchapter shall be considered a tax collector for
the village. All Push Tax amounts collected shall be held by the terminal
operator as trustee for and on behalf of the village. The failure of the
operator to collect the tax shall not excuse or release the person from the
obligation to pay the tax.
   (E)   The ultimate incidence of the Push Tax shall remain on the person and
shall never be shifted to the terminal operator.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, in order to
permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the village, no person shall be
entitled to a refund of, or credit for, the Push Tax imposed by this subchapter
unless the person files a claim for a refund or credit within one year after
the date on which the Push Tax was paid or remitted to the village.
   (G)   The terminal operator of any video gaming terminal(s) shall be subject
to audit, inspection, and record keeping provisions of this Code.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any terminal operator and/or person to
prevent, hinder, or interfere with the village's officials, employees, and/or
agents designated to discharge their respective duties in the performance and
enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (I)   It is the duty of every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal
(s) to keep accurate and complete books and records to which the village's
officials, employees, and/or agents will at all times have full access.
(Ord. 21-24, passed 10-31-2021)
§ 35.236 RULES AND REGULATIONS; AUTHORIZED.
   The village is authorized to adopt, promulgate, and enforce any additional
rules and regulations pertaining to the interpretation, collection,
administration, and enforcement of this its Village Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 21-24, passed 10-31-2021)
§ 35.237 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a terminal operator to fail
to file a report within the time prescribed in this subchapter.
   (A)   Report required. A terminal operator who falsely reports or fails to
report the amount of Push Tax due as required by this subchapter shall be in
violation of this subchapter and is subject to the suspension and/or revocation
of their terminal operator license. All payments not remitted when due shall be
paid together with a penalty assessment on the unpaid balance at a rate of 1.5%
per month.
   (B)   Suspension or revocation of license. The Local Liquor Commissioner or
his or her designee shall have the power to suspend for not more than 30 days
or revoke video gaming license issued under the provisions of this subchapter
for cause, or if he/she determines that a terminal operator shall have violated
any of the provisions of this subchapter, any of the statutes of the state or
any other valid ordinance or resolution enacted by the corporate authorities of
the village. However, no such license shall be revoked or suspended except
after the holding of a public hearing by the Local Liquor Commissioner or his
or her designee. Ten days' notice of the hearing shall be given to the terminal
operator. Alternatively, the terminal operator shall have the opportunity to
engage in a prehearing conference and agree to negotiated penalties rather than
proceed to a hearing.
   (C)   Fine imposed. In addition, any terminal operator violating the
provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to a fine of $250 for the first
offense, and $500 for the second offense and $750 for a third offense and
subject to a revocation of any license to operate a video gaming terminal for
the third offense.
   (D)   Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   (E)   It shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter for any person to
knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the village.
(Ord. 21-24, passed 10-31-2021)
§ 35.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
35.055 through
35.062 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $200, nor more than $300,
for the first offense and not less than $300, nor more than $500, for the
second and subsequent offense in any 180-day period; provided, all actions
seeking the imposition of fines only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions
subject to the provisions of ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq. Repeated
offenses in excess of three within any 180-day period also may be punishable as
a misdemeanor by incarceration in the county jail for a term not to exceed six
months under the procedure set forth in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1.1 et seq.,
and under the provisions of ILCS Ch. 725, Act 5, §§ 100-1 et seq. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which any violation
occurs or is permitted to occur.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
35.075 through
35.086 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500,
for each offense and may, in addition, be imprisoned for a term not to exceed
six months, for each offense.
      (2)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §§
35.075 through
35.086 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100, nor more than $500; and in addition shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due. Each transaction involving failure to
file, fraud or other impropriety shall constitute a separate violation, subject
to like penalties.
   (D)   Any person found guilty of violating any provisions of §§
35.115 through
35.141, except when otherwise specifically provided, shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than $50, nor more than $10,000, for the first offense and not
less than $1,000, nor more than $100,000, or five times the amount of tax
imposed, if any, whichever is higher, for the second and each subsequent
offense in any 180-day period. All actions seeking the imposition of fines only
shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions of ILCS Ch.
735, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq. Repeated offenses in excess of three within any
180-day period also may be punishable as a misdemeanor by incarceration in the
County Jail for a term not to exceed six months under the procedures set forth
in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1.1 et seq., and under the provisions of ILCS Ch.
725, Act 5, §§ 100-1 et seq., in a separate proceeding. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, any person or licensee violating any
provisions of §§
35.155 through
35.159, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $100, nor more
than $500, for each offense. Each failure to collect the tax imposed hereby and
each failure to pay the tax over to the village shall constitute a separate
violation hereof.
(Prior Code, § 35.999) (Ord. 73-8, passed 2-11-1974; Ord. 74-3, passed 6-10-
1974; Ord. 77-14, passed 9-26-1977; Ord. 86-4, passed 7-28-1986; Ord. 11-09,
passed 4-12-2011)
CHAPTER 36: ETHICS POLICY
Section
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Prohibited political activities
   
36.03   Gift ban
   
36.04   Exceptions
   
36.05   Disposition of gifts
   
36.06   Ethics Advisor
   
36.07   Ethics Commission
   
36.08   Administrative procedures
 
   
36.99   Penalty
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination or election of Presidential or Vice-
Presidential electors, but does not include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code (ILCS Ch. 10,
Act 5, § 1-3).
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. The same meaning as that term is defined in § 3 of
the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 315, § 3).
   COMPENSATED TIME. With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
chapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION. The same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-1.4 of the
Election Code (ILCS Ch. 10, Act 5, § 9-1.4).
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the village, whether on a full-time or part-
time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction
and control of the village with regard to the material details of how the work
is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. The Village of Stone Park.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive:
      (1)   Compensation for employment;
      (2)   Service credit towards pension benefits; and
      (3)   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity. This therefore includes all members of
all village boards and commissions created pursuant to statute or ordinance.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk under § 9-
3 of the Election Code (ILCS Ch. 10, Act 5, § 9-3), but only with regard to
those activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a
county clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY. All political activity, as defined herein,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration or other political event;
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fundraiser, political meeting or other political event;
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution;
      (4)   Planning, conducting or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question;
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls;
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office;
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires;
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question;
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate or proxy to a political party
convention; and/or
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action:
         (a)   By an officer; or
         (b)   By an employee, or by an officer or another employee directing
that employee.
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business:
         (a)   With an officer; or
         (b)   With an employee, or with an officer or another employee
directing that employee.
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated:
         (a)   By an officer; or
         (b)   By an employee, or by an officer or another employee directing
that employee.
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or non-performance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
(Ord. 04-13, passed 5-25-2004)
§ 36.02 PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall knowingly or intentionally perform any
prohibited political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein.
No officer or employee shall knowingly or intentionally use any property or
resources of the village in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee knowingly or intentionally
require any other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political
activity:
      (1)   As part of that officer or employee’s duties;
      (2)   As a condition of employment; or
      (3)   During any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or
personal time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   (E)   No person shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club either:
      (1)   In a position that is subject to recognized merit principles of
public employment; or
      (2)   In a position the salary for which is paid in whole or in part by
federal funds and that is subject to the Federal Standards for a Merit System
of Personnel Administration applicable to grant-in-aid programs.
(Ord. 04-13, passed 5-25-2004)
§ 36.03 GIFT BAN.
   Except as permitted by §
36.04, no officer or employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member
living with any officer or employee (collectively referred to herein as
“recipients”), shall knowingly or intentionally solicit or accept any gift from
any prohibited source, as defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by
law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall knowingly or intentionally offer
or make a gift that violates this section.
(Ord. 04-13, passed 5-25-2004) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Section 36.03 is not applicable to the following:
      (1)   Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public;
      (2)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value;
      (3)   Any:
         (a)   Contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code; or
         (b)   Activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
      (4)   Educational materials and missions;
      (5)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
      (6)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister and including the father, mother, grandfather or grandmother of the
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancée;
      (7)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
         (a)   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
         (b)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual
who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or
business reimbursement for the gift; and
         (c)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual
who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar gifts to other
officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family members.
      (8)   (a)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on
a single calendar day; provided that, the food or refreshments are:
            1.   Consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or
            2.   Catered.
         (b)   For the purposes of this division (A)(8), CATERED means food or
refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      (9)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances;
      (10)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose
of this Act, INTRAGOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee; and INTER-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity;
      (11)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death; and
      (12)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
   (B)   Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive
and independent of every other.
(Ord. 04-13, passed 5-25-2004)
§ 36.05 DISPOSITION OF GIFTS.
   An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an immediate family member
living with the officer or employee, does not violate this chapter if the
recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a prohibited
source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its value to an
appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under § 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended, renumbered or
succeeded.
(Ord. 04-13, passed 5-25-2004)
§ 36.06 ETHICS ADVISOR.
   The President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees shall
designate an Ethics Advisor for the village. The duties of the Ethics Advisor
may be delegated to an officer or employee of the village unless the position
has been created as an office by the village. The Ethics Advisor shall provide
guidance and training to the officers and employees of the village concerning
the interpretation of and compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
state ethics laws. The Ethics Advisor shall perform other duties as may be
delegated by the village.
(Ord. 04-13, passed 5-25-2004)
§ 36.07 ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   Generally. There is hereby created a commission to be known as the
Ethics Commission of the village. The Commission shall be comprised of three
members appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. No person shall be appointed as a member of the Commission who is
related, either by blood or by marriage up to the degree of first cousin, to
any elected officer of the village.
   (B)   Terms of office, officers and meetings. At the first meeting of the
Commission, the initial appointees shall draw lots to determine their initial
terms. Two Commissioners shall serve two-year terms and the third Commissioner
shall serve a one-year term. Thereafter, all Commissioners shall be appointed
to two-year terms. Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.
At the first meeting of the Commission, the Commissioners shall choose a
chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson or any two Commissioners. A quorum shall consist of two
Commissioners, and official action by the Commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two members.
   (C)   Removal. The President, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, may remove a Commissioner in case of incompetency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office after service on the Commissioner by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of a copy of the written charges against the
Commissioner and after providing an opportunity to be heard in person or by
counsel upon not less than ten days’ notice. Vacancies shall be filled in the
same manner as original appointments.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers;
      (2)   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions and impose fines in accordance with §
36.99 of this chapter. The Commission shall, however, act only upon the receipt
of a written complaint alleging a violation of this chapter and not upon its
own prerogative;
      (3)   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this chapter;
      (4)   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the village to cooperate with the Commission during
the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with requests
by the Commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or discharge; and
      (5)   The powers and duties of the Commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-13, passed 5-25-2004)
§ 36.08 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Complaints alleging a violation of this chapter shall be filed with
the Ethics Commission.
   (B)   Within three business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three business days after receipt by the Commission. The notices to the
respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time and
place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
   (C)   (1)   Upon not less than 48 hours’ public notice, the Commission shall
meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the complaint is deemed
sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to determine whether there is
probable cause, based on the evidence presented by the complainant, to proceed.
The meeting may be closed to the public to the extent authorized by the Open
Meetings Act. The Commission shall issue notice to the complainant and the
respondent of the Commission’s ruling on the sufficiency of the complaint and,
if necessary, on probable cause to proceed within seven business days after
receiving the complaint. The Commission shall also notify the attorney
designated by the corporate authorities to prosecute the actions before the
Commission as to the ruling on the sufficiency of the complaint so that the
designated attorney can prepare appropriately for the hearing.
      (2)   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of §§
36.02 or
36.03 of this chapter and there is a determination of probable cause, then the
Commission’s notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled
within four weeks after the complaint’s receipt. If the complaint is deemed not
sufficient to allege a violation or if there is no determination of probable
cause, then the Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a notice to the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint,
and that notice shall be made public.
   (D)   On the scheduled date and upon at least 48-hours’ public notice of the
meeting, the Commission shall conduct a hearing on the complaint and shall
allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and evidence. The
hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the Open Meetings
Act; provided, however, that, the hearing shall be open to the public if the
respondent requests that it be open.
   (E)   (1)   Within 30 days after the date the hearing or any recessed
hearing is concluded, the Commission shall either:
         (a)   Dismiss the complaint; or
         (b)   Issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator
and to the Village Manager or the Village Board, as the case may be, or impose
a fine upon the violator, or both.
      (2)   The particular findings in the case, any recommendation for
discipline, and any fine imposed shall be a matter of public information.
   (F)   If a complaint is filed during the 60 days preceding the date of any
election at which the respondent is a candidate, the Commission shall render
its decision as required under division (E) above within seven days after the
complaint is filed, and during the seven days preceding that election, the
Commission shall render the decision before the date of that election, if
possible.
   (G)   The Commission may fine any person who knowingly or intentionally
violates any provision of §
36.02 of this chapter in an amount of not more than $2,500. The Commission may
fine any person who knowingly or intentionally violates any provision of §
36.03 of this chapter in an amount of not more than $5,000. The Commission may
fine any person who knowingly or intentionally files a frivolous complaint
alleging a violation of this chapter in an amount of not more than $5,000. The
Commission may also recommend any appropriate discipline up to and including
discharge.
   (H)   A complaint alleging the violation of this chapter must be filed
within one year after the alleged violation.
(Ord. 04-13, passed 5-25-2004)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who knowingly or intentionally violates any provision of §
36.02 of this chapter may be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
   (B)   A person who knowingly or intentionally violates any provision of §
36.03 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not more than
$5,000.
   (C)   Any person who knowingly or intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement
authorities, the State’s Attorney or any other law enforcement official may be
fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
   (D)   A violation of §§
36.02 or
36.03 of this chapter shall be prosecuted before the Ethics Commission through
the designated administrative procedure. Decisions of the Ethics Commission may
be appealed to the Village Board, unless the respondent is a member of the
Village Board, in which case the decision may be appealed to the Circuit Court
of the county pursuant to the Administrative Review Act.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, an employee
who knowingly or intentionally violates any provision of §§
36.02 or
36.03 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge and an appointed
official may be removed from office if the removal is otherwise authorized by
statute or ordinance.
(Ord. 04-13, passed 5-25-2004)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Failure to comply
   
50.003   Burial; burning
   
50.004   Removal
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.015   Police Department to ensure compliance
Rates; Charges; Billing
   
50.030   Monthly fee
   
50.031   Billing
Deposits
   
50.045   In streets
   
50.046   Prohibited deposits
Receptacles
   
50.060   Required
   
50.061   In streets and alleys
   
50.062   Duties of owner and occupant
   
50.063   Recycling bins
Scavengers
   
50.075   License required; fee
   
50.076   Application for license
   
50.077   Vehicles
   
50.078   Sunday driving prohibited
   
50.079   Disposal and storage
Electronic Devices
   
50.080   Scope
   
50.081   Permit required
   
50.082   Fees
   
50.083   Penalty for noncompliance
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Any rejected or waste household food, offal, swill or carrion and
every accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that attends the
preparation, use, cooking and dealing in or storage of meats, fish, fowl,
fruits or vegetables and any other matter of any nature which is subject to
decay, putrefaction and the generation of noxious or offensive gases or odor or
which, during or after decay, may serve as a breeding or feeding material for
flies or other germ-carrying insects.
   RUBBISH. All ashes, refuse, paper, cans and similar items. RUBBISH shall not
include stone, concrete, building materials, discarded furniture or appliances
produced at premises in the village.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966)
§ 50.002 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Failure to comply with the terms of this chapter shall deprive any residence
or apartment building having three units or fewer of regular rubbish pickup.
Failure to comply with the terms of this chapter by any store, service station,
industry, office, church, school or apartment building having more than three
units shall cause the owner, tenant or agent of the premises to be subject to a
penalty.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.003 BURIAL; BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit anywhere in the village
any uncovered piles of refuse, garbage, offal or carcasses of dead animals. The
refuse must be buried at least two feet below the surface of the ground or
otherwise properly disposed of. Any uncovered pile of refuse is hereby declared
a nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance to burn garbage
anywhere in the village, except upon property that may be specifically
designated for that purpose by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.004 REMOVAL.
   Garbage will be removed from in front of all residential property in the
village on the day of each week fixed by the corporate authorities of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 50.04)
Cross-reference:
   Monthly fee, see §
50.030
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.015 POLICE DEPARTMENT TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.15) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966)
RATES; CHARGES; BILLING
§ 50.030 MONTHLY FEE.
   (A)   A monthly rate shall be charged to every single-family residence, 2-
flat, 3-flat and 4-flat according to the following monthly schedule for the
purpose of paying the cost of the collection of garbage and rubbish from either
the front or alley of any residence or apartment building of four units or
fewer within the corporate limits of the village:
 
                        Old Rate New Rate
Single-family residence $9       $9
2-flat                  $18      $19 per building
3-flat                  $27      $28.50 per building
4-flat                  $36      $38
 
   (B)   Stores, service stations, industries, offices, churches, schools and
apartment buildings having more than six units shall remove or cause to be
removed all waste, garbage or rubbish at least once every seven days or more
often if necessary to protect the health and safety of the residents of the
village by the hiring of private scavengers.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966; Ord. 79-11, passed 4-14-1980;
Ord. 83-10, passed 4-23-1984; Ord. 85-3, passed 5-13-1985; Ord. 88-4, passed 8-
22-1988; Ord. 89-2, passed 6-12-1989; Ord. 02-03, passed 2-12-2002; Ord. 5-14,
passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 07-06, passed 5-22-2007; Ord. 11-05, passed 4-12-2011;
Ord. 14-02, passed 3-11-2014; Ord. 14-09, passed 5-13-2014; Ord. 22-09, passed
4-12-2022)
§ 50.031 BILLING.
   The charge levied in §
50.030 shall be added to the water bill at the monthly water billing. The bill
shall be paid as a unit and shall not be divisible.
(Prior Code, § 50.21) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966)
DEPOSITS
§ 50.045 IN STREETS.
   (A)   No garbage or refuse of any kind shall be deposited in any street,
alley or public way, except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   No refuse shall be placed so that it can be blown about or scattered
by the wind.
(Prior Code, § 50.30) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.046 PROHIBITED DEPOSITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, leave or deposit any
refuse anywhere in the village that which is or may be thrown about by the
wind, which consists of garbage or any vegetable matter subject to decay or
which consists of flammable material so as to form a fire hazard.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or deposit or abandon any
cases, cartons, bottles, car bodies or similar articles anywhere in the
village.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to deposit or pile any old rags, old rope, paper,
old iron, brass, copper, tin, ashes, garbage, refuse, brush, litter, weeds,
slush, lead, glass bottles or broken glass upon any lot, piece or parcel of
land or upon any public or private alley or street within the village, except
as otherwise provided in this code.
(Prior Code, § 50.31) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966) Penalty, see §
50.999
RECEPTACLES
§ 50.060 REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner or the owner’s agent or the
occupant of any house, building, flat, apartment or tenement in the village
where people reside, board or lodge or where animal or vegetable matter is
prepared or served and at all times to maintain in good order and repair a
separate can for garbage, a separate receptacle for tin cans, bottles, ashes
and similar refuse. Replacement receptacles shall be paid for and maintained by
the owner or occupant of the premises. If the owner or occupant reports that a
bin has been stolen to the Police Department, and if the report prepared by the
Police Department supports the owner or occupant’s statement that the bin was
stolen, then the owner or occupant shall not be required to pay for the
replacement bin.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every occupant described in division (A) above
to deposit nothing but garbage or paper in the can provided for garbage and
nothing but tin cans or bottles in the receptacle provided for them.
   (C)   All garbage and trash shall be stored in containers with tight-fitting
covers.
(Prior Code, § 50.40) (Ord. 16-09, passed 5-10-2016; Ord. 17-06, passed 6-13-
2017) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.061 IN STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Garbage and trash receptacles shall be placed alongside the alleys or street
only for the period between the hours of 6:00 p.m. of the day preceding
collection until 7:00 p.m. on the day of collection.
(Prior Code, § 50.41) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966) Penalty, see §
50.999
Editor’s note:
   The village from time to time contracts with private companies for the
collection and disposal of yard waste.
§ 50.062 DUTIES OF OWNER AND OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, the owner’s agent or the occupant of
any house, building, flat, apartment or tenement in the village where people
reside, board or lodge or where animal or vegetable matter is prepared or
served, at all times, to maintain in good order and repair a receptacle for
refuse and garbage.
(Prior Code, § 50.42) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.063 RECYCLING BINS.
   (A)   One recycling bin for use in recycling programs operated by the
village shall be provided to each premises within the village.
   (B)   Replacements and cost of maintenance shall be paid for by owner or
occupant of the premises. If the owner or occupant reports that a bin has been
stolen to the Police Department and if the report prepared by the Police
Department supports the owner or occupant’s statement that the bin was stolen,
then the owner or occupant shall not be required to pay for the replacement
bin.
(Prior Code, § 50.43) (Ord. 16-09, passed 5-10-2016)
SCAVENGERS
§ 50.075 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
scavenger or the collection or disposal of animal, human or vegetable refuse or
offal without having first secured a license thereof.
   (B)   The fee for the license required in division (A) above shall be as set
out in
Chapter 112.
(Prior Code, § 50.50) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.076 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applications for a license, as required in §
50.075, shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall be referred by the Clerk
to the Village President and Board of Trustees. No permit shall be issued,
except on order of the President and Board.
(Prior Code, § 50.51) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966)
§ 50.077 VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle used by a scavenger in the scavenger’s business, licensed under
this subchapter, shall be water-tight and equipped with air-tight covers for
portions used for the transportation of refuse.
(Prior Code, § 50.52) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.078 SUNDAY DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle, as referred to in §
50.077, to be driven on or through any street in the village during a Sunday,
except in an emergency, in which case written permission from the Police
Department shall be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 50.53) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.079 DISPOSAL AND STORAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any scavenger to dispose of or store any refuse in
any place within the limits of the village, except with permission of the
Village President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 50.54) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966) Penalty, see §
50.999
ELECTRONIC DEVICES
§ 50.080 SCOPE.
   The village will assist residents in disposing of and recycling used
television sets and other electronic devices that are no larger than a
television set.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 50.081 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A resident who wishes to dispose of a television set or other electronic
device must obtain a permit from the village in the form of a sticker prior to
disposing of the electronic device. The resident must then affix the permit/
sticker to the device and place the device in the alley where garbage and other
recyclables are placed for pickup by the village.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 50.082 FEES.
   The fee for a permit to dispose of an electronic device for recycling shall
be as follows:
      Television set 32 inches or larger      $10
      Television set less than 32 inches      $5
      Other small devices            $5
(Ord. 16-01, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 50.083 PENALTY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   If a resident places a television set or other electronic device in the
alley for pickup without first purchasing the required permit/sticker, the
village will not pick up the device. If the device is allowed to remain in the
alley for three days or longer, the village will cite the resident for
violation of §
50.081. The penalty for violation of §
50.081 is $50.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $200, for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. passed 4-25-1966)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Connection of drains to sewer; permit required
   
51.02   Construction requirements for drains
   
51.03   Inspection of work
   
51.04   Permit fee
   
51.05   Restriction of sanitary sewers
   
51.06   Obstructions
   
51.07   Excavation
   
51.08   Storm water damage
   
51.09   Damaging sewers and appurtenances
   
51.10   Relief sewer
   
51.11   Use fee
   
51.12   Discharge of sanitary and industrial waste into sanitary sewer or
discharge facility
Grease Traps
   
51.25   Definitions
   
51.26   Required installation and use
   
51.27   Required maintenance
   
51.28   Prohibition of discharge of fats, oils and grease
   
51.29   Prohibition on introduction of enzymes and emulsifiers
   
51.30   Permitting grease haulers; requirements
   
51.31   Effective date
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 CONNECTION OF DRAINS TO SEWER; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No householder, property owner or other person in the village shall connect
any private or house drains with the public sewer or drain in the village
without first having made application in writing to the Director of Public
Works for a permit to make the connections. The application must be made by the
owner of the property it is desired to drain, or by his, her or their duly
authorized agents, and it must be accompanied by a clear and exact description
of the premises and of the character and location of the drains it is proposed
to put in place, together with the number and location of all water closets,
sinks, bath tubs, receiving basins and other sanitary fixtures it is designed
to connect with same, which description must be left and placed on file in the
office of the Director for future reference. Upon the approval of the
application by the Director, he or she shall issue to the applicant a permit to
connect the private or house drain with any public sewer or drain; provided,
the applicant is justly and legally entitled thereto. No connections of sewer
lines for residential buildings are permitted between November 1 of each year
and March 15 of the following year.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 06-14, passed 10-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR DRAINS.
   All private or house drains laid in the village must be constructed in
accordance with the following rules and regulations.
   (A)   Sewer connections shall be constructed of vitrified tile pipe of not
less than six inches internal diameter and shall be laid with a fall toward the
sewer of not less than one-eighth inch per running foot. All pipe shall be laid
on a uniform grade and in a direct line to the sewer connection. The pipe shall
be connected to the existing wye branch in the street sewer and, if no wye
branch is available, one shall be installed.
   (B)   All joints shall be tightly closed with oakum and cement mortar or
emulsified asphalt so that no infiltration of ground water is possible. Bell
holes shall be dug for each pipe so the pipe shall have a uniform and firm
bearing along the whole length of the bottom of the pipe.
   (C)   After completion of the laying of the pipe, soil shall be placed on
each side and over the pipe and thoroughly tamped to a depth of six inches
above the pipe, care being used not to have any rocks in this soil. The balance
of the trench shall be backfilled with the soil excavated therefrom. Where
excavation is made under the streets or alleys, the excavation shall be
backfilled with sand or screening, thoroughly tamped and puddled up to the base
of the street or alley and the street or alley restored to its original
condition.
   (D)   Wherever any sewer is laid under a building, it shall be constructed
of cast iron pipe of not less than six inches internal diameter with the joints
thoroughly sealed with oakum and caulked with lead and shall extend five feet
beyond the building wall.
   (E)   Wherever there is an existing septic tank, the connection of the house
drain to the sewer shall be made in the drain from the house to the tank before
the sewage enters the septic tank.
   (F)   Each dwelling or commercial building within the village shall have
separate connection with the public sewers or drains of the village.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 INSPECTION OF WORK.
   All work done shall be subject to the inspection, supervision and approval
of the Director of Public Works. All sewer pipe shall be left exposed for
thorough inspection as to grades and quality of pipe, brick, cement and
comparison with plans and shall not be covered up until passed upon by the
Director. Any faulty or defective work done which may, at any time, be
discovered by the Director shall be made satisfactory to the Board of Trustees.
Any licensed plumber who shall neglect, refuse or fail to make good any defects
or faults in the work, which shall be discovered by the Director, shall not be
permitted to do any further work until the defects or faults so discovered have
been made good in a manner satisfactory to the Board of Trustees and any
licensed plumber who shall refuse, neglect or fail to make good the defects or
faults, when requested to do so by the Director or who otherwise violates or
fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or any other
applicable provisions of this code or other ordinances of the village shall
have his or her license or certificate revoked by the Village President and
shall not again be permitted to conduct, carry on or engage in the business of
drain laying until satisfactory assurance shall be given to the President that
the person thereafter will faithfully observe all the applicable provisions of
this code and other ordinances of the village and until the plumber shall have
made good any loss, damage or expense caused by or on account of any negligence
or misconduct on his or her part which was the case of the revocation of the
license.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for a permit to construct sewers and drains or to lay pipes to
connect with any sewers or drain built in any of the streets, alleys or avenues
of the village shall be $150 in each case. Permission shall not be granted,
except upon the agreement, in writing, of the person or persons applying
therefor, that the applicants will comply with the ordinances in relation to
excavating the streets and they will indemnify the village for damages or cost
to which it may be put by reason of injuries resulting from neglect or
carelessness in performing the work so permitted. No claim will be made by them
or their successors in interest against the village or for exemption from any
assessment lawfully imposed for constructing sewers and drains in the vicinity
of their property.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 88-8, passed 2-27-1989) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 RESTRICTION OF SANITARY SEWERS.
   The sanitary sewers in the village shall be used solely for the drainage of
waste from sanitary facilities within buildings. It shall be unlawful for any
person to connect rain gutters to or direct drainage of surface water into the
sanitary sewers of the village.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   No butcher’s offal, garbage, dead animals or obstructions of any kind
shall be placed, thrown or deposited in any sewer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to offend, obstruct or place any
substance so as to be carried into the sewer.
   (C)   It shall unlawful for any person to injure, break or remove any
portion of any receiving basin, covering flag, manhole, vent or any part of any
sewer or drain.
(Prior Code, § 51.06) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to uncover or excavate under or around
any catch basin, brick or pipe sewers in the village for any purpose without
the written consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 51.07) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 STORM WATER DAMAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to connect or cause
to be connected any drain carrying or to carry any toilet, sink, basement,
septic tank, cesspool, industrial waste or any fixture or device discharging
polluting substances to any storm water drain in the village.
(Prior Code, § 51.08) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 DAMAGING SEWERS AND APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to, directly or indirectly,
willfully or maliciously damage, injure or obstruct any sewer, house drain,
cesspool, water closet pipe, catch basin, manhole, protection pier or any
appurtenance thereto, now or hereafter to be laid or constructed in the
village.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy or injure the
bank of any ditch, gully or open drain or to place any substance therein
tending to obstruct it or render it obnoxious or shall obstruct the free
passage of water through it.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tap any public ditch or
drain in the village or connect any private sewer, drain or ditch therewith
without the written consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 51.09) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 RELIEF SEWER.
   (A)   Subject to the condition herein stated, the perpetual easement, right
and authority is hereby granted and given the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago, hereafter referred to as the “District”, to
construct, reconstruct, repair, maintain and operate the North Avenue Relief
Sewer, Upper Des Plaines 10A (82-169-2S), together with the appurtenances
thereto, hereinafter designated the “relief sewer”, upon, under and through all
the streets, highways, public lands, public rights-of-way and public easements
of the village within the territory limits of the village traversed by the
right-of-way of the relief sewer.
   (B)   The location, size and manner of construction on the relief sewer
shall be in accordance with plans and specifications prepared by the District,
as approved by the village’s engineers.
   (C)   (1)   The District shall, at its own cost and expense, change the
location of the police and fire alarms, street lighting and electric wires of
the village as may be rendered necessary by the construction of the relief
sewer.
      (2)   The District shall, at its cost and expense, install all safety
devices and traffic-control signals as may become necessary and required by the
village for the public convenience, health and safety as a result of any
routing or rerouting of traffic caused by the construction contemplated in this
section.
      (3)   The relief sewer shall be constructed, reconstructed, repaired and
efficiently maintained and operated solely by the District at its sole expense
and cost; the village shall not be held responsible in any manner for the
location or manner of construction, reconstruction, repair or operation of the
same.
      (4)   The District shall indemnify, save and keep harmless the village
from any and all claims for damage to real and personal property and injuries
to or death suffered by persons for reasons of the construction,
reconstruction, repair, maintenance or operation by the District of the relief
sewer within the corporate limits of the village.
      (5)   The District shall, at its sole cost and expense, restore to their
former condition of usefulness the pavements of all streets, public alleys and
highways as well as all other structures, shrubs, trees and sod which may be
disturbed, interfered with or damaged by the construction, maintenance, repair
or operation of the relief sewer as well as all walks, crosswalks, curbs,
gutters, catch basins and ditches as soon as practicable and thereafter shall
be maintained the restoration from time to time as may be necessary, but not to
exceed two years. All surplus excavation and other soil shall be removed from
the paved streets, public alleys and highways by the District.
      (6)   The village hereby orders and directs all persons, partnerships and
corporations which shall, at the time of the construction of the relief sewer,
own, operate or maintain any conduits, wires, poles, pipes, gas mains, cables,
electric, steam and street railway tracks and equipment or other structures
within any portion of the streets, public alleys and highways to be excavated
in the construction of the relief sewer at his, her, its or their own expense,
to make changes in the location of the conduits, wires, poles, pipes, gas mains
and cables, electric, steam and street railway tracks and equipment or other
structures as may be rendered necessary by the construction of the relief
sewer.
      (7)   The District and its contracts are hereby given and granted the
right to use in the construction of the relief sewer the motor trucks,
excavators, hoisting engines and other plant equipment that may be necessary
for the complete construction of the work.
      (8)   The District shall, at its own expense and cost, alter the location
of the water mains of the village as may be rendered necessary by the
construction of the relief sewer of the District. In all such cases, where it
shall become and be necessary that water pipes are removed, cut off or damaged
in any way on account of the construction of the relief sewer, the District is
hereby authorized to remove, alter, repair and replace the water service pipes
at its own cost and expense, providing any water service pipes disturbed shall
be replaced by the District; provided, all work done on the water mains and
water service pipes shall be subject to the approval of the village’s
engineers.
      (9)   The village, in consideration of the passage of this section and
the mutual benefits thereby, gives, grants and issues without fees or other
cost therefor to the District or to any contractor to whom this work or any
part thereof specified in this section shall be awarded, all permits or
licenses required for doing the work upon application and shall not require the
District or its contractors to deposit any sum of money required under any
ordinance of the village for similar work, except for the District or its
contractors, connects to or modifies the sewers and water mains of the village,
then the District or its contractors will be required to be licensed by the
village by posting a bond and providing a certificate of insurance. The village
shall furnish the District or any contractors to whom the work or any part
thereof shall be awarded, at any existing water connection or hydrant or a
suitable water connection as may be installed, all water needed in the
performance of the work; provided, the water so furnished will not interfere
with the necessary water supply for the village, at the regular rate charged by
the village to its consumers, all water to be used will be measured through
meters provided by the village, where a deposit will be used toward meters
provided by the village, where a deposit will be used toward the cost of water
used; and, further, the village shall not require the payment by the District
of any fees or salaries for inspectors employed by the village on the work.
      (10)   The District shall notify the village of any interruption in
utility services to residents of the village to be caused by the construction
program. The notice shall be made at least 24 hours before the interruption is
to occur. In the case of an emergency interruption in utility services caused
by the District’s construction process, the village shall be notified
immediately of the interruption of services caused by the District’s actions.
The District shall earnestly endeavor to promptly restore any utility service
interruption by its construction process. Where the interruption would continue
for some period of time, the District shall construct facilities for temporary
utility services. The utility services herein included shall comprise those of
the village and those furnished by any public utility.
(Prior Code, § 51.10) (Ord. 89-6, passed 8-14-1989) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 USE FEE.
   (A)   Residential. A monthly rate of $7 (currently $6.50) shall be charged
for each habitable dwelling unit.
   (B)   Commercial.
      (1)   A base monthly rate of $21 shall be charged to each metered
connection for the provision of sewer services.
      (2)   A monthly rate of $7 shall be charged for each incremental unit.
(Prior Code, § 51.11) (Ord. 85-4, passed 5-13-1985; Ord. 05-14, passed 6-21-
2005; Ord. 09-02, passed 4-28-2009; Ord. 14-02, passed 3-11-2014; Ord. 18-10,
passed 4-10-2018; Ord. 22-08, passed 4-12-2022)
§ 51.12 DISCHARGE OF SANITARY AND INDUSTRIAL WASTE INTO SANITARY SEWER OR
DISCHARGE FACILITY.
   No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall discharge any sanitary
waste or industrial waste water into any storm sewer or drainage facility
constructed as part of the U.S. 12/45 over Addison Creek improvement, said
limits of improvement being between approximately 600 feet south and 800 feet
north of the centerline of US Route 20, in the Village of Stone Park.
(Ord. 18-05, passed 2-13-2018)
GREASE TRAPS
§ 51.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GREASE TRAPS. A constructed device, and its appurtenant surfaces and working
parts, with the function of removing fats, oils and grease from wastewaters
before the wastewaters are discharged to village sewers.
   PROHIBITED CONCENTRATION. Discharges of wastewaters from a grease trap in
the village shall not exceed 250 mg/l (total) of fats, oils and grease in any
sample, whether obtained as a composite or grab sample.
(Ord. 01-17, passed 10-23-2001)
§ 51.26 REQUIRED INSTALLATION AND USE.
   Each person or operating facility within the village, other than a private
residence, which will be used for the manufacture, processing or preparation of
food or food products must install and use, at its own expense, a grease trap
adequate to prevent a discharge of fats, oils and grease to village sewers in
prohibited concentrations. Any facility in operation without a grease trap on
the date of enactment of this subchapter shall be required to install and use a
grease trap within 12 months of enactment.
(Ord. 01-17, passed 10-23-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.27 REQUIRED MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Each person who owns or operates a grease trap, as required by §
51.26, shall cause collected or trapped fats, oils and grease to be cleaned and
removed from the device on a periodic basis, and delivered to a facility
authorized to use, treat or dispose of the material. The cleanout and removal
shall be accomplished on a monthly basis unless the village, upon receipt of
proof from the owner or operator or on the basis of its own inspection of the
grease trap, determines that a less or more frequent maintenance schedule is
required to achieve the purposes of this subchapter and to minimize the
discharge of a prohibited concentration of fats, oils or grease.
   (B)   No fats, oils or grease removed from a grease trap may be offered to a
person for transportation nor transported off the site where the materials were
collected, except by a hauler licensed, as required by §
51.30(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. 01-17, passed 10-23-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.28 PROHIBITION OF DISCHARGE OF FATS, OILS AND GREASE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge a prohibited concentration of fats, oils or
grease into village sewers, from a facility required to install and use a
grease trap.
   (B)   No person shall reintroduce or deposit into the village sewers any
fats, oils or grease which have been removed from the sewer system by grease
traps.
   (C)   No person shall deposit or discharge into the village sewers any fats,
oils and grease which have been removed from a grease trap or sewer system
outside the village.
(Ord. 01-17, passed 10-23-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.29 PROHIBITION ON INTRODUCTION OF ENZYMES AND EMULSIFIERS.
   No person shall introduce, nor allow the introduction of, physical, chemical
or biological agents into grease traps for the purpose of re-suspending,
dissolving, emulsifying or rendering soluble any fats, oils or grease removed
from a waste water by the grease traps and reintroducing them into the village
sewer system.
(Ord. 01-17, passed 10-23-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.30 PERMITTING GREASE HAULERS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall own or operate a vehicle used to transport fats,
oils or grease collected from a grease trap unless that vehicle is validly
permitted by, and is inscribed with the permit numbers issued by, either:
         (a)   The State Department of Agriculture, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 225,
Act 610, §§ 9.1 and 9.2 (a scrap and grease permit); or
         (b)   The village, pursuant to this division (A).
      (2)   Applications for village vehicle permits shall be accepted only
from the record owner of the vehicles, and shall include the owner’s name and
address, the location of the facility at which each vehicle is garaged, the
number, type and registration number of vehicles to be used by the proposed
permittee and a sworn declaration of the facilities to which the fats, oils or
grease are to be delivered for use, treatment or disposal. Permits issued
hereunder shall be renewed annually and shall expire on December 31. A fee of
$50 per vehicle shall accompany each application for an original or renewal
permit.
   (B)   (1)   No person may cause or allow the transportation of fats, oils or
grease away from the grease trap at which the materials were collected unless
the materials are accompanied by a shipping paper containing the information
prescribed in division (B)(2) below. No specific form of shipping paper is
required, unless the village prescribes and publishes public notice of the
requirement to use a particular form.
      (2)   Each shipping paper shall contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
         (a)   The name and telephone number of the owner or operator of the
grease trap from which the fats, oils or grease were collected, the street
address of the grease trap, the volume of fats, oils or grease and any
associated water removed, the legible signature of an authorized representative
of the owner or operator and the date of the materials removal;
         (b)   The name, address, Village Department of Agriculture permit
number and telephone number of the transporter, an acknowledgment of receipt of
the collected materials, the legible signature of an authorized representative
of the transporter and the date of collection; and
         (c)   The name, street address and telephone number of the facility to
which the material was delivered for use, treatment or disposal, the date and
time of delivery, the volume delivered and the legible signature of an
authorized representative of the transporter verifying the delivery.
      (3)   The grease trap owner or operator and transporter shall retain a
copy of the shipping papers for a minimum of two years, and shall produce the
documents upon request of the village or the owner or operator of the sewage
treatment works to which the village’s sewers are tributary.
(Ord. 01-17, passed 10-23-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.31 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on 11-15-2001.
(Ord. 01-17, passed 10-23-2001)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §§
51.01 through
51.11, where no other penalty is provided, shall, upon conviction, be fined not
less than $5, nor more than $200, for each offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §
51.06(A) or (B) shall, upon conviction, be fined $10 for each offense.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §
51.06(C) shall, upon conviction, be fined $20 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates the provisions of §
51.09(A) shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $200,
or be imprisoned in the County Jail for a period not to exceed six months and
be liable for all expenses incurred on account of repairs or damages resulting
from the offense.
(Prior Code, § 51.99)
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
51.25 through
51.31 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500, for
the violation. Each day the violation continues shall be a separate and
distinct offense.
      (2)   Any person who knowingly makes a false material statement or
representation in any writing required to be prepared under §§
51.25 through
51.31 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500, for
each submission.
(Ord. 01-17, passed 10-23-2001)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Authority to start water service; requirements
   
52.02   Application; fee for service; deposit
   
52.03   Resale prohibited
   
52.04   Tampering prohibited
   
52.05   Lawn and garden irrigation
   
52.06   Construction; contractors
   
52.07   Connection/reconnection to village water and sewer transmission systems
   
52.08   Use of groundwater as potable water supply prohibited
Pipes and Other Appurtenances; Connections
   
52.20   Excavation
   
52.21   Service connection to main; fee
   
52.22   Installation of service pipes; inspection
   
52.23   Compliance with specifications
   
52.24   Repairs
   
52.25   Shut-off boxes
   
52.26   Inspection fee
Meters
   
52.40   Required; upgrading
   
52.41   Installation
   
52.42   Tampering prohibited
Rates; Charges; Billing
   
52.55   Sixty-day cycle for water and sewer billing; combination of bills for
other services
   
52.56   Rates
   
52.57   Commercial rates
   
52.58   Residential rates
   
52.59   Non-payment and final bill when moving
   
52.60   Lien, foreclosure; review of water bill
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 AUTHORITY TO START WATER SERVICE; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No water from the village water supply shall be turned on for service
into any premises by any person, but the Director of the Water and Sewer
Department or some person authorized by the Director to perform this service.
   (B)   No water shall be turned on for service in premises in which the
plumbing does not comply with this code; provided that, water may be turned on
for construction work in unfinished buildings, subject to the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 APPLICATION; FEE FOR SERVICE; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Application to have water turned on shall be made in writing to the
Village Clerk and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and
accept all of the provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of
the village water supply by the applicant. A fee of $5 shall be paid for
turning on the water.
   (B)   A deposit of $5 shall be made with each application prescribed in
division (A) above. This sum shall be retained by the village to ensure payment
of all bills. When service to the applicant is discontinued permanently, this
deposit, less any amount still due the village for water service, shall be
refunded without interest; provided that, where any applicant for water service
is the owner of the premises to be served, no deposit shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 RESALE PROHIBITED.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the
village supply to any premises other than that for which application has been
made and a meter installed, except in case of an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 TAMPERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the village to tamper
with, alter or injure any part of the village water works or supply system, or
any meter.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 LAWN AND GARDEN IRRIGATION.
   Sprinkling of lawns and other vegetation with water from the combined sewer
and water system of the village is prohibited between the hours of 5:00 p.m.
and 10:00 p.m. from May 15 to October 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 52.05) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 CONSTRUCTION; CONTRACTORS.
   During the construction of any building and before any water is installed,
the contractor so constructing the building may be permitted to use the village
water supply by making application therefor and paying the flat fee prescribed
by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 52.06) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 CONNECTION/RECONNECTION TO VILLAGE WATER AND SEWER TRANSMISSION
SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, the corporate authorities hereby
require all residents and businesses within the corporate limits of the village
to connect/reconnect to the village water and sewer transmission system within
six months of the passage of this section.
   (B)   Residents and businesses that do not connect/reconnect to the village
water and sewer transmission systems shall either: (1) enter an annual fee
agreement with the village; or (2) annually pay a fee to the village equal to
the difference between the annual revenue that would have been collected by the
village if the resident was connected to the village water and sewer system and
the annual revenue collected by the third party entity providing water and
sewer transmission systems. Residents and businesses selecting the later option
shall cooperate in providing any necessary releases or information necessary to
determine applicable fee amounts.
(Ord. 18-18, passed 6-26-2018)
§ 52.08 USE OF GROUNDWATER AS POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The use or attempt to use as potable water supply groundwater from
area described on Exhibit A to Ord. 17-01, as a potable water supply, by the
installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited.
This section prohibits the installation of potable water supply wells by the
village within the area shown on Exhibit B to Ord. 17-01.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to a fine of up to $500 for each violation.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes, or preparing foods.
(Ord. 17-01, passed 4-28-2017)
PIPES AND OTHER APPURTENANCES; CONNECTIONS
§ 52.20 EXCAVATION.
   (A)   Excavations for installing or repairing service pipes shall be made in
compliance with §
96.14 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to place any service pipe in the same excavation
with or directly over any drain pipe or sewer pipe.
(Prior Code, § 52.20) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 SERVICE CONNECTION TO MAIN; FEE.
   (A)   No connections with a water main shall be made, except by village
employees under the direction of the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Any person, firm of corporation desiring to connect to the combined
water works and sewerage system of the village first shall be required to
obtain a permit therefor. The permit charge to connect to the combined water
works and sewerage system shall be as follows for:
 
1-inch service $300
2-inch service $400
3-inch service $500
4-inch service $800
5-inch service $900
6-inch service $1,000
 
(Prior Code, § 52.21) (Ord. 88-8, passed 2-27-1989; Ord. 95-10, passed 11-20-
1995; Ord. 05-02, passed 2-8-2005; Ord. 06-15, passed 10-24-2006) Penalty, see
§
52.99
§ 52.22 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE PIPES; INSPECTION.
   (A)   All service pipes from the mains to the premises served shall be
installed by, and at the cost of, the owner of the property to be served on the
applicant for the service.
   (B)   The installation shall be under the inspection of the Building
Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 52.22) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS.
   No service shall be installed unless it conforms to specifications
prescribed by the Board of Trustees and approved thereby, a copy of which shall
be kept on file by the Village Clerk and shall be open to inspection by any
person interested.
(Prior Code, § 52.23) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.24 REPAIRS.
   (A)   All repairs for service pipes and plumbing systems of buildings shall
be made by and at the expense of the owners of the premises served.
   (B)   The village may, in case of an emergency, repair any service pipes. If
this is done, the cost of the repair work shall be repaid the village by the
owner of the premises served.
(Prior Code, § 52.24) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.25 SHUT-OFF BOXES.
   (A)   Shut-off boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every service pipe
and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line where this is
practicable.
   (B)   The boxes shall be located so they are easily accessible and shall be
protected from frost.
(Prior Code, § 52.25) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.26 INSPECTION FEE.
   There shall be charged for the inspection of connections to the sewer and
water systems of the village a fee of $50.
(Prior Code, § 52.26) (Ord. 88-8, passed 2-27-1989) Penalty, see §
52.99
METERS
§ 52.40 REQUIRED; UPGRADING.
   (A)   (1)   All premises using the village water supply must be equipped
with an adequate water meter and an exterior reading device, commonly called a
“water mite”, furnished by the village, but paid for by the consumer.
      (2)   Before installation of the devices described in division (A)(1)
above, a flat rate may be charged.
      (3)   Before occupancy, the devices described in division (A)(1) above
shall be installed or application made for the water service at the flat rate
of charge until the devices can be installed or no water shall be furnished the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 52.40)
   (B)   (1)   Upon the sale of property located within the corporate
boundaries of the village and prior to issuance of the village transfer stamps,
the water meter at and upon the premises shall be upgraded to a water meter as
required by the village.
      (2)   The cost of the upgrade of the water meter shall that amount set by
the village and shall be paid by the seller of the premises, the cost described
herein shall be set forth in the village fee schedule and may be amended from
time to time by the village.
(Ord. 75-3, passed 8-19-1975; Ord. 05-19, passed 11-22-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.41 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Meters shall be installed at a location that will be easily
accessible.
   (B)   Exterior reading devices, commonly called “water mites”, shall be
installed on the exterior of the premises.
   (C)   Upon installation or replacement of a water meter, the owner of the
premises shall pay to the village an amount in accordance with the following
schedule:
Water Meter Fee
Water Meter                                                           Fee
M25 5/8-inch x 3/4-inch brass meter with HRE-8 register only          $326.00
M25 5/8-inch x 3/4-inch brass meter with HRE-8 register and Orion     $450.00
cellular transmitter
M25 bronze meter base only                                            $106.00
M70 1-inch brass meter with HRE-8 register only                       $338.00
M70 1-inch brass meter with HRE-8 register and Orion cellular         $650.00
transmitter
Badger meter M70 bronze meter base only                               $462.00
M120 1-1/2 brass meter with HRE-8 register only                       $346.00
M120 1-1/2 brass meter with HRE-8 register and Orion cellular         $950.00
transmitter
Badger meter M120 bronze meter base only                              $1,076.00
M170 2-inch brass meter with HRE-8 register and Orion cellular        $2,500.00
transmitter
2-inch compound series meter with 2 HRE-8 registers and Orion         $3,000.00
cellular transmitters
Orion cellular transmitter with HRE-8 register for up to 1-inch meter $338.00
base
Orion cellular transmitter with HRE-8 register for up to 1.5-inch to  $346.50
2-inch meter base
 
(Prior Code, § 52.41) (Ord. 75-3, passed 8-19-1975; Ord. 03-11, passed 5-13-
2003; Ord. 05-05, passed 2-22-2005; Ord. 17-28, passed 12-12-2017; Ord. 20-03,
passed 2-25-2020; Ord. 21-02, passed 3-23-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.42 TAMPERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to break any
seal placed on a water meter by the village or to tamper with any water meter,
meter mite or any seal or fixture attached thereto by the village.
   (B)   Meters shall be left in the condition and manner as set by the village
and it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to interfere,
disturb, move or tamper in any manner whatsoever with the same unless so
authorized by either the village or any agent of the Department of Public
Works.
(Prior Code, § 52.42) (Ord. 79-2, passed 5-15-1979) Penalty, see §
52.99
RATES; CHARGES; BILLING
§ 52.55 SIXTY-DAY CYCLE FOR WATER AND SEWER BILLING; COMBINATION OF BILLS FOR
OTHER SERVICES.
   (A)   Bills for water and sewer services shall be dated and sent each 60
days or as close thereto as practicable, unless otherwise directed by the
Village President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Bills for water and sewer services may be combined with bills for
other village services.
(Prior Code, § 52.45) (Ord. 75-4, passed 8-18-1975)
§ 52.56 RATES.
   (A)   The monthly rate to all consumers and users of the village water
system is charged to the account of every property that is supplied by the
village with a water connection to that property.
   (B)   All dwelling units are charged an individual base rate per habitable
unit.
   (C)   All commercial buildings are charged a monthly base rate, different
from the residential rate.
   (D)   Charges for water consumption and usage are payable to the village at
the time and in the manner specified in §
52.55.
(Prior Code, § 52.46) (Ord. 85-4, passed 5-13-1985)
§ 52.57 COMMERCIAL RATES.
   (A)   A monthly rate of $30 shall be charged to each metered connection for
the provision of water services.
   (B)   A monthly rate of $20 shall be charged for each incremental unit.
   (C)   Bi-monthly consumption in excess of 2,000 (was 4,000) gallons per
metered connection shall be billed at a rate of $12.00 per 1,000 gallons, or
fraction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 52.47) (Ord. 77-9, passed 6-27-1977; Ord. 80-8, passed 4-27-
1981; Ord. 85-4, passed 5-13-1985; Ord. 91-3, passed 7-22-1991; Ord. 97-1,
passed 5-19-1997; Ord. 03-09, passed 4-22-2003; Ord. 08-02, passed 2-26-2008;
Ord. 09-02, passed 4-28-2009; Ord. 10-04, passed 3-23-2010; Ord. 12-02, passed
2-15-2012; Ord. 13-04, passed 5-7-2013; Ord. 13-14, passed 9-10-2013; Ord. 14-
02, passed 3-11-2014; Ord. 14-17, passed 8-12-2014; Ord. 14-18, passed 9-23-
2014; Ord. 14-22, passed 12-9-2014; Ord. 15-04, passed 3-10-2015; Ord. 15-11,
passed 11-24-2015; Ord. 16-18, passed 9-13-2016; Ord. 17-03, passed 5-9-2017;
Ord. 17-27, passed 11-28-2017; Ord. 18-10, passed 4-10-2018; Ord. 19-04, passed
5-14-2019; Ord. 20-10, passed 6-9-2020; Ord. 21-04, passed 3-23-2021; Ord. 22-
08, passed 4-12-2022)
§ 52.58 RESIDENTIAL RATES.
   (A)   A based monthly rate of $20 shall be charged to each habitable
dwelling unit for the provision of water services.
   (B)   Bi-monthly consumption in excess of 4,000 (was 5,000) gallons per
habitable dwelling unit shall be billed at a rate of $9.95 (was $9.75) per
1,000 gallons, or fraction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 52.48) (Ord. 77-9, passed 6-27-1977; Ord. 80-8, passed 4-27-
1981; Ord. 85-4, passed 5-13-1985; Ord. 89-7, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 91-3,
passed 7-22-1991; Ord. 97-1, passed 5-19-1997; Ord. 08-02, passed 2-26-2008;
Ord. 09-02, passed 4-28-2009; Ord. 10-04, passed 3-23-2010; Ord. 12-02, passed
2-15-2012; Ord. 13-04, passed 5-7-2013; Ord. 13-14, passed 9-10-2013; Ord. 14-
02, passed 3-11-2014; Ord. 14-17, passed 8-12-2014; Ord. 14-18, passed 9-23-
2014; Ord. 14-22, passed 12-9-2014; Ord. 15-04, passed 3-10-2015; Ord. 15-11,
passed 11-24-2015; Ord. 16-18, passed 9-13-2016; Ord. 17-03, passed 5-9-2017;
Ord. 17-27, passed 11-28-2017; Ord. 18-10, passed 4-10-2018; Ord. 19-04, passed
5-14-2019; Ord. 20-10, passed 6-9-2020; Ord. 21-04, passed 3-23-2021; Ord. 22-
08, passed 4-12-2022)
§ 52.59 NON-PAYMENT.
   (A)   A 10% penalty will be assessed and will appear on the next statement
if payment in full is not received by the Water Department by 4:30 p.m. on the
due date. A bill is not considered paid until payment is received by the Water
Department.
   (B)   If past due amount and penalty is not received by the Water Department
within ten days of the due date, water service will be discontinued. After
water service has been shut off, service will not be resumed until all past due
amounts, penalties, and a $100 turn-on fee have been paid.
   (C)   When moving, residents must notify the Water Department at least three
days prior to a final reading of the water meter. Personal checks will not be
accepted for final payments.
(Prior Code, § 52.49) (Ord. 14-17, passed 8-12-2014)
§ 52.60 LIEN, FORECLOSURE; REVIEW OF WATER BILL.
   (A)   Lien.
      (1)   Generally. Charges for water shall be a lien upon the premises as
provided by statute. Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid 30 days
after it has been issued, the Village Clerk may file with the County Recorder a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of
the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill and a notice that the
village claims a lien for the amount, as well as for all charges for water
served subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
      (2)   Foreclosure. The Village Attorney may institute a proceeding for
the foreclosure of the lien referred to in division (A)(1) above, in the name
of the village, in any court having jurisdiction over these matters, against
any property for which a water bill has remained unpaid 60 days after it has
been issued.
   (B)   Procedure for review of water bill. If, at any time, a user contends
that his or her water bill is excessive due to the water meter not registering
correctly or for any other reason, the following procedures shall be followed.
      (1)   A village employee shall be sent to the premises to physically
check the meter reading and to check for possible plumbing problems. If the
village employee determines that the meter is reading accurately, then the
customer may either elect to pay the outstanding water bill in full or request
that a field test be performed pursuant to division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Upon request of a field test by the customer, a representative of
the village shall explain to the customer the process and potential cost of the
request to the customer, the village shall then so order the field test, upon
receipt of the results of the test the following shall be required depending
upon the results of the test.
         (a)   If it is determined that the meter is reading accurately, the
customer may elect one of the following:
            1.   Pay the water bill in full plus the costs of the testing; or
            2.   Request a hearing before the local Hearing Officer as per
division (C) below.
         (b)   If it is determined that the meter was reading inaccurately, the
village shall, at its cost, replace or repair the meter and adjust the
customer’s water bill accordingly.
   (C)   Administrative hearing process. The Hearing Officer shall review all
cases presented under this section and shall make final determination
concerning the water bill in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Administrative staff shall provide the Hearing Officer with all
information relating to the customer’s water account and related meter tests.
      (2)   Each case shall be considered independently.
      (3)   If the Hearing Officer adjusts the water bill, the adjustment shall
never be less than what the village pays for the water.
      (4)   If the Hearing Officer orders an adjustment to the water bill the
adjusted amount shall be paid in full within two months of the order.
(Prior Code, § 52.50) (Ord. 04-07, passed 3-9-2004)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter, for which no other penalty is set forth, shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than $5, nor more than $200, for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §§
52.20,
52.22,
52.23,
52.24 or
52.25 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $100,
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §§
52.40 or
52.41 shall, upon conviction:
      (1)   Pay the village an amount estimated by the Chairperson of Public
Works to cover the loss of revenue generated by reason of any incorrect
registration of the water meter;
      (2)   Pay the village an amount estimated by the Chairperson of Public
Works an amount necessary to repair or replace, by reason of any damage done to
any meter, meter mite or seal or fixture thereto attached or placed by the
village; and
      (3)   Pay the village a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 52.99) (Ord. 79-2, passed 5-15-1979)
CHAPTER 53: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Generally
   
53.02   Effective date
   
53.03   Purpose
   
53.04   Application
   
53.05   Policy
   
53.06   Definitions
Use Regulations
   
53.20   Water system
   
53.21   Cross-connection prohibited
   
53.22   Survey and investigations
   
53.23   Where protection is required
   
53.24   Type of protection required
   
53.25   Backflow prevention devices
   
53.26   Inspection and maintenance
   
53.27   Booster pumps
   
53.28   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All plumbing installed with the village shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890. If, in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgement of the Director
of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of
the public water supply system, the Director of Water will give notice to the
water customer to install an approved device immediately. The water customer
shall, at his or her own expense, install an approved device at a location and
in a manner in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, State Environmental
Protection Agency and all applicable local regulations and shall have
inspections and tests made of the approved devices upon installation and as
required by the Illinois Plumbing Code, State Environmental Protection Agency
and local regulations.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the village may enter the supply or distribution system of the
municipality, unless the private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of the supply shall have been approved by the
Director of Water and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Water to cause survey and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years,
or as often as the Director of Water shall deem necessary. Records of the
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five years.
   (D)   The approved Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose
of verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections and that the Water
Director, or his or her authorized agent, shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection control
inspection. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the Director of Water any information which he or she may
request regarding the piping systems or systems or water use on the property.
The refusal of the information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of
the Director of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this chapter.
   (E)   The Director of Water of the village is hereby authorized and directed
to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water
service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions
of this chapter is known to exist and to take other precautionary measures as
he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger or contamination of the
public water supply distribution mains. Water service to the property shall not
be restored until the conditions have been eliminated or corrected in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and until a reconnection fee of
$20 is paid to the village. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be
effected when the Director of Water is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. The action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate
disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or
anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply; provided
that, in the reasonable opinion of the Director of Water or the State
Environmental Protection Agency, the action is required to prevent actual or
potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the
Public Water Supply, the Director of Water or its agents or assigns shall be
liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may
result from termination of the customer’s water supply in accordance with the
terms of this chapter, whether or not the termination was with or without
notice.
   (F)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned or back-pressured material
or contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
systems occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device or a device which has been bypassed must bear the
cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008)
§ 53.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after 10-28-
2008.
   (B)   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after upon its
passage and publication, in accordance with § 1-2-4 of the Illinois Municipal
Code.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008)
§ 53.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
   (A)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable water system and
non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown questionable safety; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination of pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008)
§ 53.04 APPLICATION.
   These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises served by the public
potable water supply system of the village.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008)
§ 53.05 POLICY.
   The owner of official custodian shall be responsible for protection of the
public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back-siphonage
of contaminants through the customer’s water service connection. If, in the
judgement of the Director of Water, or his or her authorized representative, an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply system, the Director of Water shall give notice to the consumer to
install the premises. The consumer shall immediately install the approved
device or devices at his, her or its own expense; failure, refusal or inability
on the part of the consumer to install the device or devices immediately shall
constitute grounds for disconnecting water service to the premises until the
device or devices have been installed. The consumer shall retain records of
installation, maintenance, testing and repair, as required in §
53.22 of this chapter, for a period of at least five years. The Director of
Water may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection inspection report
to the village to assist in determining whether or not service line protection
will be required. All cross-connection inspections shall be conducted by a
Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector certified by the State Environmental
Protection Agency.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008)
§ 53.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes or streams or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be polluted
or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or system over
which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in the state must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word “severe”, as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD, means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890I.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Ill. Admin. Code 604.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including, without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. PLUMBING
includes all piping , fixtures, appurtenances and ventilation system of any
building or buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the
point of connection of the building drain to the building sewer or private
sewage disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 Ill. Admin. Code 604
for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection with would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S).
      (1)   Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically or
otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollutional or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer’s potable water system.
      (2)   This includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
         (b)   Process waters;
         (c)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system
which may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
         (d)   Cooling water;
         (e)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams or irrigation systems;
         (f)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
         (g)   Oils, gases acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks sand appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
“community water supply” or a “non-community water supply”.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written form and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply’s official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 53.20 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Director of Water up to the point
where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008)
§ 53.21 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited, except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   (1)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the Agency.
      (2)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.22 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open, at all reasonable times, to the
approved Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer’s premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer’s premises.
   (B)   On request by the Director of Water, or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer’s premises. The consumer’s
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Director of Water for the
verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the public
water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
system or the public potable water system. All cross-connection control or
other plumbing inspections must be conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 225,
Act 320, § 3.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed; or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions; and
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions.
   (E)   Testing and records.
      (1)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
      (2)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with ILCS Ch. 415,
Act 5, § 4.
      (3)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI and type and date of repairs.
      (4)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
         (a)   Date of each test;
         (b)   Name and approval number of person performing the test results;
         (c)   Test results;
         (d)   Repairs or servicing repaired;
         (e)   Repairs and date completed; and
         (f)   Service performed and date completed.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008)
§ 53.23 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code
890 and the Agency’s regulations 35 Ill. Admin. Code 680. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving premises, where in the judgement of the
Directors of Water, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply
system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Director of Water and the
source is approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Director of Water;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgement
of the Director of Water and/or the Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector,
are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirement or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; and
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code
890 and the Agency’s regulation 35 Ill. Admin. Code 653. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the
following types of facilities unless the Director of Water determines that no
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Car washes;
      (11)   Pesticide, herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
      (12)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008)
§ 53.24 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
53.23 of this chapter shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as
follows:
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard;
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could cause
a system or health hazard; and
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
53.23 of this chapter shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or
an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      (4)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008)
§ 53.25 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works,
American Society of Sanitary Engineering or American National Standards
Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. The manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall be
available on-site.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008)
§ 53.26 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
the manufacturer’s instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level receptacle at the time of installation and
at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or bypassed air gaps
shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually, or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number or person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by division (A) above.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Director of Water.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008)
§ 53.27 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, the pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the Director
of Water, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008)
§ 53.28 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Water shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable
notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not installed,
tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the Director of
Water, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed
or bypassed, or if a low pressure cut-off device required by these regulations
is not installed and maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to the premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated the conditions or defects in conformance with these
regulations and to the satisfaction of the Director of Water, and the required
reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Water service to the premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated the conditions or defects in conformance with these
regulations and to the satisfaction of the Directors of Utilities/Operations.
   (D)   Neither the Village Director of Water or his or her agents or assigns
shall be liable to any customers of the village for any injury, damages or lost
revenues which may result from termination of the customer’s water supply in
accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether or not the termination of
the water supply was with or without notice.
   (E)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   (F)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be serviced with written notice stating the notice of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently
cease all violation.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, in
addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the village for any
expense, loss or damage occasioned by the village by reason of the violations,
whether the same was caused before or after notice.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 10-28-2008)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RULES OF OPERATION
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES AND SCOOTERS
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   EQUIPMENT; LOADS
      
76.   MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Adoption of ILCS violations by reference
   
70.03   Automated traffic law enforcement system
   
70.04   Sound amplification devices in motor vehicles
   
70.05   Surfacing of parking areas
   
70.06   Trucks on residential streets
Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws
   
70.20   Obedience to police officers
   
70.21   Public officers and employees to obey traffic code; exceptions
   
70.22   Traffic laws apply to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn
vehicles
   
70.23   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer
Traffic Signs, Signals and Markings
   
70.35   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.36   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.37   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.38   Lane-control signals
   
70.39   Flashing signals
   
70.40   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, markings or advertising signs
   
70.41   Interference with official traffic-control devices or railroad signs or
signals
   
70.42   Unlawful use or damage to highways, appurtenances and structures
   
70.43   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
70.44   Zones of quiet
   
70.45   No-turning signs and turning markers
   
70.46   Stop and yield signs
   
70.47   Location of village traffic-control signs
Vehicle Licenses
   
70.60   Definition
   
70.61   Licenses
   
70.62   Time of payment; license year; fees
   
70.63   Windshield sticker
   
70.64   Use of funds
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-102)
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any U.S. or state-numbered route, controlled-access highway
or other major radial or circumferential street or highway designated by local
authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part of a major arterial
system of streets or highways.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of village departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper local
authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the Fire Department; vehicles of a
HazMat or technical rescue team authorized by a county board under Section 5-
1127 of the Counties Code; ambulances; vehicles of the Illinois Department of
Corrections; vehicles of the Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice; vehicles
of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency; vehicles of the Office of the
Illinois State Fire Marshal; mine rescue and explosives emergency response
vehicles of the Department of Natural Resources; vehicles of the Illinois
Department of Public Health; vehicles of the Illinois State Toll Highway
Authority with a gross vehicle weight rating of 9,000 pounds or more and those
identified as Highway Emergency Lane Patrol; vehicles of the Illinois
Department of Transportation identified as Emergency Traffic Patrol; and
vehicles of a municipal or county emergency services and disaster agency, as
defined by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-105)
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is more than 16 inches in
diameter.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-106)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying
more than ten persons.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-107)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business or
industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks or office
buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side, or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-108)
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-
hire or not-for-hire, but not including, a commuter van, a arrangement when
being used for that purpose, or a recreational vehicle not being used
commercially.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-111)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at the points only and in the
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street or roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-112)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of a
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with the extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface,
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation as authorized in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116)
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-120)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in
combination, without load, plus the weight of load thereon.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-125)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-126)
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry; provided that, no farm wagon,
wagon trailer or like vehicle having a gross weight of more than 36,000 pounds
shall be included hereunder.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-130)
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone, or gravel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 40 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
      (3)   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not
constitute an INTERSECTION.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132)
   LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL. An official traffic-control device consisting of an
electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a square or rectangular
design, and employing distinctive colors or symbols used to control the
direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the indication
applies.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-135)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-136)
   LEASE. A written document vesting exclusive possession, use, control and
responsibility of the lessee during the periods the vehicle is operated by or
for the lessee for a specific period of time.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-137)
   LICENSE TO DRIVE. Any driver’s license or any other license or permit to
operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of the state including:
      (1)   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
      (2)   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle, whether or
not the person holds a valid license or permit; and
      (3)   Any non-resident’s driving privilege, as defined herein.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-138)
   LIMOUSINE. Any privately owned first division vehicle intended to be used
for the transportation of persons for-hire when the payment is not based on a
meter charge, but is prearranged for a designated destination.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-139.1)
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, village and other local board or body
having authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the Constitution and
laws of the state.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140)
   MAIL. To deposit in the United States mail properly addressed and with
postage prepaid.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-141)
   MERGING TRAFFIC. A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on
converging roadways to permit entry into the junction thereof, wherein the
driver of each vehicle involved adjusts his or her vehicular speed and lateral
position so as to avoid a collision with any other vehicle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, except for vehicles
moved solely by human power, and motorized wheelchairs. For this section, MOTOR
VEHICLES are divided into two divisions:
      (1)   First division: motor vehicles designed for carrying not more than
ten persons; and
      (2)   Second division: motor vehicles designed for carrying more than ten
persons, those designed or used for living quarters, and those motor vehicles
which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or cargo, and those motor
vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as motor vehicles of
the second division.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than
150 cubic centimeter piston displacement, including motorized pedalcycles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-145.001)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider, and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding an autocycle or tractor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §1-147)
   MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLE. A motor-driven cycle whose speed attainable in one
mile is 30 mph or less, which is equipped with a motor that produces two brake
horsepower or less. If an internal combustion engine is used, the displacement
shall not exceed 50 cubic centimeter displacement and the power drive system
shall not require the operator to shift gears.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.2)
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for and used by a
handicapped excess of eight mph on level ground.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.3)
   NON-COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not a commercial vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.6)
   NOT-FOR-HIRE. Operation of a commercial vehicle in furtherance of any
commercial or industrial enterprise, but not-for-hire.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-153)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
which conform with the state manual, and not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-154)
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement, and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of the motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this title.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-155)
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading
merchandise or passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-156)
   PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle of the first division, including a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than ten
persons.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-158)
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES. A natural person who, as determined by a licensed
physician, by a licensed physician assistant, or by a licensed advanced
practice registered nurse: (1) cannot walk without the use of, or assistance
from, a brace, cane, crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair, or
other assistive device; (2) is restricted by lung disease to such an extent
that his or her forced (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when
measured by spirometry, is less than one liter, or the arterial oxygen tension
is less than 60 mm/hg on room air at rest; (3) uses portable oxygen; (4) has a
cardiac condition to the extent that the person’s functional limitations are
classified in severity as Class III or Class IV, according to standards set by
the American Heart Association; (5) is severely limited in the person’s ability
to walk due to an arthritic, neurological, oncological, or orthopedic
condition; (6) cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest because of one of
the above five conditions; or (7) is missing a hand or arm or has permanently
lost the use of a hand or arm.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1)
   PERSONALLY IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. Information that identifies an
individual, including his or her driver's license number, name, address (but
not the five digit zip code), date of birth, height, weight, hair color, eye
color, email address, and telephone number, but "personally identifying
information" does not include information on vehicular crashes, driving
violations, and driver's status.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.2)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162)
   POLICE VEHICLE. Any vehicle, recreational off-highway vehicle, all-terrain
vehicle, watercraft, aircraft, bicycle, or electric personal assistive mobility
device that is designated or authorized by proper state, county, or local
authorities for police use.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162.3)
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place where any person transacts his or her
principal business, or where he or she makes up and approves his or her
payroll, maintains a central file of records, and maintains his or her
principal executive offices. In the event that not all of these functions are
performed in one place, then that place where a majority of these functions are
performed, or the place where the person does in fact principally transact and
control his or her business affairs shall be considered as the PRINCIPAL PLACE
OF BUSINESS.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162.5)
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership, and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-163)
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Proof of ability to respond in damages
for any liability thereafter incurred resulting from the ownership,
maintenance, use or operation of a motor vehicle for bodily injury to or death
of any person in the amount of $25,000, and subject to this limit for any one
person injured or killed, in the amount of $50,000 for bodily injury to or
death of two or more persons in any one crash, and for damage to property in
the amount of $20,000 resulting from any one crash. This proof in these amounts
shall be furnished for each motor vehicle registered by every person required
to furnish this proof.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-164.5)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166)
   RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING. The intersection of stationary rails owned
or used in the operation of a railroad corporation across a highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166.1)
   RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device, other than an official
traffic-control signal or device, erected in accordance with the laws governing
the same, and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the
approach of a railroad train.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-167)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-168)
   RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway device designed
to travel primarily off-highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer's dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less for gas-powered engines or
3,000 pounds or less for electric-powered engines, traveling on four or more
non-highway tires, designed with a non-straddle seat and a steering wheel for
steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-168.8)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes, and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-169)
   REGISTRATION. The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates issued under the laws of the state pertaining to the registration of
vehicles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171)
   REGISTRATION STICKER. A device to be attached to a registration plate that
will renew the registration and registration plate or plates for a
predetermined period, not to exceed one registration year.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171)
   REMOVE. Includes removing, defacing, covering or destroying.
   RESCUE SQUAD. A voluntary association of individuals, or a fire department,
dedicated to saving lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked
vehicles or other hazardous circumstances, and associated with some unit of
government.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.6)
   RESCUE SQUAD VEHICLE. A vehicle specifically designed, configured and
equipped for the performance of access and extrication from hazardous or life-
endangering situations. However, if the vehicles have emergency medical
transport capability, they must be classified as “rescue vehicles”.
   RESCUE VEHICLE. Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, configured and equipped for the performance of access
and extrication of persons from hazardous or life-endangering situations, as
well as for the emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.8)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway, not
comprising a business district, when the property on the highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business. For purposes of establishing maximum speed
limits, a RESIDENCE DISTRICT shall be at least a quarter of a mile long with
residences or residences and buildings in use for businesses spaced no more
than 300 feet apart.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-172)
   RETAIL SALE. The act or attempted act of selling vehicles or otherwise
disposing of a vehicle to a person for use as a consumer.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-174)
   REVERSIBLE LANE. A lane of a two or more laned roadway upon which traffic
may be directed to move in either direction by means of lane-control signals or
other devices, in conjunction with official signs.
   REVOCATION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE. The termination by formal action of the
secretary, of a person’s license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle on the
public highways, which termination shall not be subject to renewal or
restoration; except that, an application for a new license may be presented and
acted upon by the secretary after the expiration of at least one year after the
date of revocation.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-176)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision, unless one grants precedence to the other.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-177)
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-178)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any roadway separately, but not to all roadways collectively.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-179)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-181)
   SCHOOL BUS.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in division (2) below,
owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of the entity:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   Any public, private or religious nursery school.
      (2)   This definition does not include the following:
         (a)   A bus operated by a public utility, village corporation or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when the bus is not traveling a specific school bus route, but is:
            1. On a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare-paying passengers;
            2. Furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
field trips or other special trips or in connection with special events; or
            3. Being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or
other educational facilities.
         (b)   A motor vehicle of the first division.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-182)
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and so constructed that its weight and that of its load rests upon or
is carried by another vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187)
   SHOULDER. The portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for
accommodating stopped vehicles or for emergency use.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187.1)
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPEED-CHANGE LANE. An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-193)
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-194)
   STATE. A state, territory or possession of the United States, the District
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or a province of the Dominion of
Canada.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-195)
   STATE HIGHWAYS. Defined in the Illinois Highway Code as the same may from
time to time be amended.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-196)
   STATE POLICE. The Illinois State Police.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-197)
   STOP. The complete cessation from movement.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-199)
   STOP or STOPPING. Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign
or signal.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-200)
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-201)
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. The portion of any city, village or incorporated town,
other than the business and residence districts.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-203)
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right-of-way
to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when those signs are erected as provided in this title.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205)
   TOW TRUCK. Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used to
push, tow or draw vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar, towline or
auxiliary axle, or to render assistance to disabled vehicles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205.1)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-207)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any official traffic-control device other than a
railroad sign or signal, whether manually, electrically or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to
proceed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-208)
   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS. Any provision of this code or other regulatory
ordinance the purpose of which is to directly control or improve traffic and
safety of both vehicles and pedestrians.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property, and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-209)
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an over-dimension permit when towed on a highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-210.01)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211)
   TRUCK CAMPER. A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is construed to provide temporary
living quarters for recreational, travel or camping use.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211.01)
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn, or a power unit that carries as
property motor vehicles when operating in combination with a semitrailer in
transporting motor vehicles or any other commodity, including cargo or general
freight, on a backhaul.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-212)
   URBAN AREA. An urban area is any incorporated or unincorporated area
developed primarily for residential or business purposes.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214.8)
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses,
and situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of one-fourth
mile or more.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214)
   UTILITY TRAILER. A trailer, as defined in this section, consisting of only
one axle, weighing under 2,000 pounds, and used primarily for personal or
individual use and not commercially used nor owned by a commercial business.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-216.5)
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-101(d), except devices moved by human power,
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and snowmobiles as
defined in the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act, being ILCS Ch. 625, Act
40.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise prescribed, a
device shall be considered to be a VEHICLE until the time it either comes
within the definition of a “junk vehicle”, as defined under this section, or a
junking certificate is issued for it.
      (3)   For this section, VEHICLES are divided into two divisions:
         (a)   First division: those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons;
         (b)   Second division: Those vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten persons, those designed or used for living quarters and those
vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight, or cargo
and those motor vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as
motor vehicles of the second division.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217)
   YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY. When required by an official sign, the act of granting
the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic
within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left, but
when the roadway is clear may proceed into the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 ADOPTION OF ILCS VIOLATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following violations of the Illinois Compiled Statutes are hereby
adopted by reference to the village municipal code and shall be subject to the
procedures described herein:
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-112(b)   Failure to transfer title within five days.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-401(a)   No valid registration - never applied.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-404      No bill of lading or manifest/dispatch record.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-411(a)   Failure to carry registration card or reciprocity
                              permit - second division vehicle.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-413(a,b) Improper display of license plates.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-413(f)   Operation of vehicle with expired registration
                              plate or sticker.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-416      Failure to notify the Secretary of Illinois State
                              of name/address change.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-417(a)   Failure to immediately apply for replacement
                              registration card, plate or sticker.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-701(1)   No valid registration - no valid plate or sticker
                              obtained.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-701(2)   No valid registration - reciprocity, prorate or
                              apportionment.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 5-201(h)   No in-transit plates.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 5-202(e)   Failure to display three tow-truck plates.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1419.01 Failure to display Illinois Motor Fuel Tax
                              Identification Card.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1419.02 Failure to display external Illinois Motor Fuel
                              Tax Identification device.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507(a) Operation of bicycle without lamp and reflector.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507.1  Operation of motorized pedalcycle without lamp
                              and reflector.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101(a)  Operation of vehicle with unsafe equipment.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-201(a)  Operation of motorcycle without lighted headlamp.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-201(b)  Driving vehicles without two lighted headlamps
                              and tail lamps when required.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-201(c)  No white rear registration light.
                              Insufficient clearance, identification or side
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-202(a,b)marker lamps and reflectors - second division
                              vehicle.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-203(a)  Failure to use parking lights while vehicle is
                              standing on highway.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-204     Improper lamp or flag on projecting load.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-205     Improper use of lamps on towing and towed
                              vehicles.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-207(a)  Improper use of more than one spot lamp.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-207(b)  Improper use of more than three auxiliary driving
                              lamps.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208(a)  No stop signal lamp or device.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-209(c)  Defective back-up lights.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-210(a)  Failure to dim headlights/auxiliary driving lamps
                              within 500 feet on approach of vehicle.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-210(b)  Failure to dim headlights/auxiliary driving lamps
                              within 300 feet of vehicle in same direction.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-211(a)  Improper lighting on vehicles other than
                              motorcycles - only one headlamp.
                              Unlawful application of tinted film to windshield
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-503(b)  or window(s) adjacent to driver - all vehicles
                              manufactured after 12-31-1981.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-503(c)  Obstructed view of any window by stationary or
                              suspended object(s).
                              Operation of vehicle without windshield cleaning
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-503(d)  device; operation of vehicle with view obstructed
                              by snow, ice or moisture.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-503(e)  Obstructed view due to defective condition or
                              repair of any window.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-601(a)  Operation of vehicle with defective horn.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-601(b)  Unlawful possession or use of siren.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-602     Operation of vehicle with defective or modified
                              exhaust system.
                              Operation of vehicle without two front seat
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-603(b)  safety belts - vehicles of 1961 or later model
                              years.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-603.1   Failure of driver/front seat occupant(s) to use
                              seat safety belt.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-604(a)  Operation of vehicle with television receiver
                              visible to driver.
                              Operation of tow truck without:
                              (a) Identifying sign attached on each side.
                              (b) Required equipment - one broom, shovel, trash
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-606     can and fire extinguisher.
                              (c) Removing roadway debris and spreading dirt or
                              sand on oil/grease deposits.
                              (d) Insurance policy in cab.
                              Operation of vehicle with unlawfully altered
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-607(a)  vehicle suspension system - body lifted in excess
                              of three inches from chassis.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-607.1(a)Operation of first division vehicle with frame in
                              excess of 22 inches above ground.
                              Operation of second division vehicle with frame
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-607.1(b)in excess of specified limits above ground -
                              refer to statute.
                              Operation of vehicle with a gross vehicle weight
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-608(a)  rating (GVWR) of 9,000 pounds or less or a
                              recreational vehicle without two bumpers.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-608(a)  Operation of vehicle with unlawful bumper height.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-610(a)  Operation of vehicle while wearing headset
                              receiver.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-702     Failure to use flares/warning devices when second
                              division vehicle is disabled.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-702(a)  Operation of second division vehicle without
                              carrying flares/warning devices.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-704(a)  Failure to placard vehicle transporting
                              explosives.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-704(b)  Failure to carry two fire extinguishers within
                              vehicle transporting explosives.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-707     Overloaded school bus, commuter van or motor
                              vehicle used for hire.
                              Operation of garbage truck, roll-off hoist or
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-711     roll-on container without audible backing warning
                              system.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-806     Failure to cover school bus sign.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-808     Operating school bus without fire extinguisher.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-809     Operating school bus without first aid kit.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-810     Transporting handicapped passenger(s) without
                              restraining device.
                              Operating without certificate of valid safety
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 13-111     test attached to windshield - second division
                              vehicle.
                              Failure to display valid unexpired emission
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 13A-104(c) inspection sticker (affected Illinois counties
                              only).
                              Load projecting in any excess beyond left fenders
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-105     or six inches beyond right fenders of first
                              division vehicle.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-106     Failure to fasten loose projecting member.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-108     Failure to plank edge of pavement for any vehicle
                              in excess of 8,000 pounds.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109(a)  Spilling load on highway.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109(b)  Operating loaded vehicle without securely
                              fastened covering.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109.1   Operating second division vehicle with load
                              falling, blowing or dropping to highway.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-114     Unlawful pushing of disabled vehicle.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18C-4104(a)Operation without registration - intrastate or
                              interstate.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18C-4604(1)Operation without current cab card and Illinois
                              identifier stamp.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18C-4604(3)Use of a cab card and Illinois identifier stamp
                              issued to another carrier.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18C-4604(4)Failure to display or present a cab card and
                              Illinois identifier stamp.
                              Operating without trade name, license and
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18C-4701(1)registration number of carrier painted or affixed
                              to both doors of power unit.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 603-1      Operation of unnumbered snowmobile.
                              Operation of snowmobile without required:
                              (a) One white headlamp during darkness.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 604-1      (b) One rear taillight during darkness.
                              (c) Brake system in good mechanical condition.
                              (d) Reflective material on each side of cowling.
                              (e) Adequate sound suppression equipment.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 605-1(d)   Operation of snowmobile without lighted headlamp
                              and taillight.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1203-1     Operation of all-terrain vehicle or off-highway
                              motorcycle without valid registration.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1203-4(b)  Operation of all-terrain vehicle or off-highway
                              motorcycle without affixed registration decal.
                              Operation of all-terrain vehicle without
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1203-4(c)  registration certificate in possession of
                              operator.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1203-9     Failure to renew registration certificate.
                              Operation of all-terrain vehicle or off-highway
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1204-3     motorcycle without safety helmet and eye
                              protection.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1204-6     Operation of all-terrain vehicle without headlamp
                              and tail lamp when required.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1204-7     Operation of all-terrain vehicle without
                              operational service brakes.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1204-8     Operation of all-terrain vehicle without adequate
                              muffler system.
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1204-10    Operation of all-terrain vehicle with modified
                              exhaust system.
 
   (B)   Any person, pursuant to the issuance of a compliance ticket, who is
accused of a violation of the sections of the village code set out in division
(A) above, except a traffic offense for which a court appearance is required
pursuant to Supreme Court Rule 551, may settle and compromise that ticket by
paying to the village a fee in the following amounts:
      (1)   For failure of the driver or front seat occupant to use a seat
safety belt, a fee of $75 within ten days from the date the alleged violation
was committed or by paying to the village the sum of $150 subsequent to the
ten-day period and prior to 30 days thereafter; and
      (2)   For any other compliance ticket, a fee of $50 within ten days from
the date the alleged violation was committed or by paying to the village the
sum of $100 subsequent to the ten-day period and prior to 30 days thereafter.
   (C)   The issuance of compliance warning citations shall be as a courtesy in
lieu of instituting a prosecution in court for the alleged offense. If the
person accused of the violation does not settle the claim, a uniform traffic
complaint or notice to appear will be issued for that violation and, otherwise,
that person shall be subject to the general penalties set forth in §
70.99.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) (Ord. 92-4, passed 8-17-1992; Ord. 02-09, passed 3-12-
2002; Ord. 05-12, passed 6-14-2005; Ord. 10-02, passed 2-17-2010)
§ 70.03 AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Detection. As used in the section, AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT
SYSTEM means a device within the village with one or more motor vehicle sensors
working in conjunction with a red light signal to produce recorded images of
motor vehicles entering an intersection against a steady or flashing red signal
indication in violation of § 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-306, and §§
70.35 and
70.36 of the municipal code of ordinances. The automated traffic law
enforcement system shall not be used to enforce speed limit regulations. The
recorded images produced by the automated traffic law enforcement system, which
consist of either two or more photographs, two or more electronic images of a
video recording showing the motor vehicle, shall capture and display images of
the vehicle allegedly violating traffic-control signals, together with the
license plate on the vehicle, and shall also show the time, date and location
of the violation.
   (B)   Signage. Any intersection equipped with an automated traffic law
enforcement system must have a sign posted which is visible to approaching
traffic indicating that the intersection is being monitored by an automated
traffic law enforcement system.
   (C)   Procurement. See Exhibit 1 which is attached to Ord. 08-01 and made a
part hereof.
   (D)   Notice of violation. When the automated traffic law enforcement system
records a motor vehicle entering an intersection in spite of a steady or
flashing red signal indication violation of § 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306, the village shall issue a written notice
of the violation to the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle, which shall
be delivered by first class mail within 30 days after the state’s Secretary of
Illinois State notifies the village of the identity of the registered owner or
lessee of the vehicle, and in no event later than 90 days following the
violation. Each notice of violation associated with and automated traffic law
violation shall require a review of the associated recorded image by a
technician employed or contracted by the village, who shall inspect the image
and determine whether the motor vehicle violated § 11-306 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306, or whether one of the defenses
enumerated below in division (F) below is visibly applicable upon inspection.
Upon determination that the recorded image captures a violation of one of the
foregoing provisions and that no defense applies, the notice of violation shall
be served upon the registered vehicle owner in the manner provided for below.
The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall retain a copy of all violation
notices, recorded images and other correspondence mailed to the alleged
violator. Each notice of violation, which shall constitute evidence of the
facts contained in the notice and is admissible in any proceeding alleging a
violation of the above-noted statutory and local provisions and shall establish
prima facie evidence of a violation, subject to rebuttal on the basis of the
defenses established in division (F) below, shall include the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the Secretary of Illinois State, or, if
the information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address
recorded in a United States Post Office approved database;
      (2)   The registration number of the motor vehicle involved in the
violation;
      (3)   The violation charged, with specific reference to that section of
the village’s code of ordinances allegedly violated;
      (4)   The location where the violation occurred;
      (5)   The date and time of the violation;
      (6)   A copy of the recorded images;
      (7)   The amount of the civil penalty imposed hereunder and the date by
which the civil penalty should be paid if liability for the violation is not
going to be contested;
      (8)   A statement that the recorded images are evidence of a violation of
a red light signal;
      (9)   A warning that failure to either pay the civil penalty or to
contest liability within 30 days of the mailing of the notice of violation by
attending the administrative hearing is an admission of liability and may
result in a suspension of the driving privileges of the registered owner or
lessee of the vehicle in addition to the specified penalties for failing to
appear at the hearing or pay the fine in advance of the hearing;
      (10)   A statement that the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle may
elect to proceed either by paying the fine stated in the notice of violation or
by challenging the charge in an administrative hearing or, for non-residents of
the village, by mail in accordance with division (M) below, and that failure to
pay the stated fine within the allotted time will operate to process the
violation notice within the administrative adjudication system and give rise to
a mandatory appearance at the administrative hearing;
      (11)   The date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which
the charge may be contested on its merits, a date that shall be no less than
15, nor more than 30, days from the mailing or other service of the first
notice of violation; and
      (12)   The signature of the technician reviewing the recorded images and
confirming that a violation took place.
   (E)   Second notice of violation. If no moneys have been received by the
village within 15 days of sending out the first notice of violation, the
village shall issue a second written notice of the violation to the registered
owner or lessee of the vehicle, which shall be delivered by first class mail to
the address of the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle as recorded
with the Secretary of Illinois State or, if the previous notice of violation to
that address was returned as undeliverable, then to the last known address
recorded in a United States Post Office approved database. The second notice of
violation shall be identical to the previous notice; except that, it shall be
labeled “second notice of violation”. If no moneys have been received within
seven days from the second notice of violation a third shall be issued; except,
it shall be labeled “third notice of violation”.
   (F)   Defenses. The following are the only defenses available for an alleged
violator contesting his or her liability for a violation, which shall be
weighed by the Hearing Officer and shall only rebut the prima facie case
established by the notice of liability insofar as one or more of the following
defenses are established by a preponderance of the evidence:
      (1)   The motor vehicle or registration plates were stolen before the
violation occurred and were not under the control of or in the possession of
the owner at the time of the violation, which may be demonstrated through the
submission of a certified copy of a report concerning the stolen motor vehicle
or registration plates was filed with a law enforcement agency in a timely
matter;
      (2)   The driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection in spite
of a red light either to yield the right-of-way to an emergency vehicle or as
part of a funeral procession; and
      (3)   The motor vehicle was being operated by someone other than the
registered vehicle owner or lessee at the time of the violation, which shall
require written notification to the village and shall only be deemed a valid
defense insofar as the registered vehicle owner or lessee provides the name and
address of the person operating the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense.
Failure to notify the village in writing of the name and address of the
operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense in advance of the
hearing date or date on which the civil penalty is due will result in a
presumption that the registered owner or lessee was the operator of the vehicle
at the time of the offense and will result in a finding of liability unless one
of the other defenses is applicable and duly established.
   (G)   Administrative adjudication. The village hereby establishes a system
of administrative adjudication for a vehicular standing and parking violations,
violations regarding the display of municipal wheel tax licenses and automated
traffic law violations. All civil offenses to be adjudicated through the
administrative system shall carry fines up to $250. The administrative
adjudication system for all violations of the village code subject to
administrative adjudication shall be comprised of a Code Hearing Unit which
shall be comprised of a Hearing Officer and any other officials deemed
necessary, including a Traffic Compliance Administrator with respect to all
parking, standing, condition and use of vehicle equipment, display of municipal
wheel tax licenses and automated traffic law regulations. The officers shall be
vested with the power, authority and limitations as are hereinafter set forth.
   (H)   Powers of the Hearing Officer.
      (1)   The Hearing Officer shall have all of the powers granted to Hearing
Officers under ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, Art. 2.1, the provisions of which are
incorporated herein by reference, including the power to preside over all
administrative hearings as the adjudicator, administer oaths, hear testimony
and accept evidence that is relevant to the existence of the code violation,
issue a subpoena to secure the attendance of witnesses and the production of
papers or documentation upon the request of the parties or their
representatives, rule upon objections and the admissibility of evidence,
preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all exhibits and
evidence introduced at the hearing, issue a written determination, based on the
evidence presented at the hearing, of whether a violation of the village code
exists. The determination shall include findings of fact, decision and order
setting forth the fine, penalty or action with which the person found liable
must comply, impose penalties consistent with applicable village code
provisions and assess costs upon finding a party liable for the charged
violation.
      (2)   In no event may Hearing Officers sentence a violator to
incarceration, impose a penalty in excess of $50,000 or in excess of specified
statutory or village code limits.
   (I)   Powers of Traffic Compliance Administrator. The Traffic Compliance
Administrator shall have all of the powers granted by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
11-208.3(b)(1), the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference.
   (J)   Authorization to appoint.
      (1)   The Village President is hereby authorized to appoint Hearing
Officers, in a number as the President deems necessary with the advice and
consent of the Village Board, for a term not to exceed the current Village
President’s term of office. In order to be considered for appointment to the
position of Hearing Officer, a candidate must be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the state for at least three years. Following appointment and
confirmation, but prior to conducting administrative adjunction proceedings,
Hearing Officers must successfully complete a formal training program, which
includes: instructions as to the rules of administrative hearing procedures,
orientation to each subject area of the village code violations that they will
adjudicate, observation of administrative hearings and participation in
hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence and issuing final orders.
      (2)   The Village President, with the advice and consent of the Village
Board of Trustees, shall appoint a Traffic Compliance Administrator for a term
not to exceed that of the Village President’s current term of office, who is
authorized to adopt, distribute and process parking, compliance and automated
traffic law violation notices, collect money paid as fines and penalties for
the above noted violations, operate an administrative adjudication system and
make certified reports to the Secretary of Illinois State regarding a
registered vehicle owner’s failure to pay fines and penalties in accordance
with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5.
   (K)   Compensation. Compensation for Hearing Officers, the Traffic
Compliance Administrator and any other official deemed necessary to implement
the system of administrative adjudication, shall be compensated as established
annually by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   (L)   Specifications. The violation notices concerning parking, standing,
condition and use of vehicle equipment, display of municipal wheel tax licenses
and automated traffic law regulations must specify the date, time and place of
the violation, the regulation being violated with a citation to the village’s
code of ordinances, the fine and penalties to be assessed in the event of late
payment, the vehicle make (in the case of automated traffic violations, the
make of the vehicle must be specified only insofar as the make is discernible)
and state registration number, and the identification number of the person
issuing the violation notice. The violation notice must also state that the
payment of the indicated fine and of any applicable penalty for the late
payment shall constitute a final disposition of the violation. In addition, the
notice must provide a hearing date on which the violation may be contested on
its merits and notify the alleged violator of his or her right to be
represented by legal counsel at the administrative hearing.
   (M)   Service of violations.
      (1)   Violation notices shall be served in the following manner.
         (a)   Violations concerning parking, standing, condition and use of
vehicle equipment, or display of municipal wheel tax licenses: violation notice
must be either affixed to vehicle or given directly to the operator of the
vehicle present.
         (b)   Violations of automated traffic law regulations: violation
notice must be mailed to the address of the registered owner or lessee of the
cited vehicle as recorded with the Secretary of Illinois State within 30 days
after the Secretary of Illinois State notifies the village of the identity of
the registered vehicle owner, but no later than 90 days after the date of the
violation.
      (2)   If the notice of violation is returned as undeliverable, then the
notice of violation must be sent to the last known address recorded in a United
States Post Office approved database, which notice shall still be sent within
90 days of the violation.
   (N)   Administrative hearing. In the event that the registered vehicle owner
elects to contest the merits of the alleged violation in lieu of paying the
civil penalty, an administrative hearing shall be held between 15 and 30 days
of the mailing of the notice of violation, which date shall be provided on the
notice of violation, together with a pre-hearing date on which the penalty
shall be due in order to generate a final disposition and obviate the
administrative adjudication process.
   (O)   Taping; rules. The hearing shall be tape-recorded, and the Hearing
Officer conducts the hearing in accordance with his or her powers and duties,
enumerated herein. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply to the
administrative hearing.
   (P)   Appearance. Alleged violators who do not appear on their scheduled
hearing date shall have a default judgement entered against them. Alleged
violators who do appear to contest an alleged violation may be represented by
legal counsel at their own expense, may present witnesses, testimony and
documents, may cross-examine opposing witnesses and may request the issuance of
subpoenas to compel the appearance of relevant witnesses or the production of
relevant documents. In the case of automated traffic enforcement violations,
the above-stated rights of the alleged violator are limited to the furtherance
of one of the available defenses as set forth herein.
   (Q)   Judgement. The Hearing Officer must enter either a default judgement
or a determination of liability or non-liability, in accordance with
consideration of the facts and testimony. The Hearing Officer shall issue a
written determination, based on the evidence presented at the hearing, of
whether a violation of the village code exists. The determination shall include
findings of fact, a decision and order setting forth the fine, penalty or
action with which the person found liable must comply, impose penalties
consistent with applicable village code provisions and assess costs upon
finding a party liable for the charged violation. In addition to the findings,
decision and order, the Hearing Officer’s written determination shall contain a
statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a debt due and owing
the village, a date by which the violation must be brought into compliance with
the village code, if applicable, a warning that the findings, decision and
order of the Hearing Officer may be enforced in the same manner as a judgement
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction, and any expenses incurred by the
village to enforce the judgement, including, but not limited to, attorney’s
fees, court costs and costs related to property foreclosure, shall be a debt
due and owing the village and may be collected in accordance with applicable
law. A notice of default judgement shall be forwarded to any person who fails
to appear and shall contain the same information as a determination of
liability, but shall also state that the judgement may be set aside by the
Hearing Officer in the Hearing Officer’s discretion if, within ten days of
issuance of the judgement, a petition is received stating good cause for the
failure to appear at the hearing. The Hearing Officer, shall then provide the
petitioner with notice of a new hearing date or denial of the petition. The
default judgement shall also state that it constitutes a final determination of
liability if a petition is not received, if the petition is denied or, if after
granting the petition and establishing a new hearing date, the petitioner fails
to appear again.
   (R)   Determination of liability. The determination of liability issued by
the Hearing Officer shall constitute a final determination for the purpose of
judicial review and shall be subject to review under the State Administrative
Review Law, ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.
   (S)   Enforcement. Upon expiration of the period in which judicial review
under the State Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final
determination of a village code violation, the findings, decision and order of
the Hearing Officer may be enforced in the same manner as a judgement entered
by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (T)   Notice of final determination. Upon expiration of the period in which
judicial review under the Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final
determination of a village code violation, a notice of final determination
shall be sent to the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle, stating
that the unpaid fine or penalty is a debt due and owing the village. The notice
of final determination shall also warn the liable party that a failure to pay
any fine or penalty due and owing the village within 15 days of the issuance of
the notice of final determination may result in the village’s filing of a
petition in the Circuit Court to have the unpaid fine or penalty rendered a
judgement, or may result in suspension of the liable party’s driver’s license
where the party has failed to pay fines or penalties for ten or more parking
violations or five or more automated traffic law violations.
   (U)   Remedies. Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the village
from pursuing all available remedies, allowed by law, to collect money
judgements.
   (V)   Notice of impending driver’s license suspension. This notice shall be
sent via first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the address
recorded with the Secretary of Illinois State of any person liable for any fine
or penalty due and owing the village for ten or more parking violations or five
or more unpaid automated traffic law violations. If the mailing is returned as
undeliverable, then the village shall send the notice to the last known address
recorded in a United States Post Office approved database.
   (W)   Procedures for non-residents. Where the registered owner or lessee of
the cited vehicle is not a resident of the village, but seeks to contest the
merits of the alleged violation, the persons may contest the charges using the
same available defenses as stated above, but rather than attend the
administrative hearing, they may submit any and all documentary evidence to the
Traffic Compliance Administrator no later than the hearing date referenced in
the notice of liability, together with a written statement reflecting that they
are non-residents of village. The traffic compliance officer shall forward all
timely-submitted materials to the Hearing Officer to review and determination.
   (X)   Authority to execute agreement. The Village President is authorized to
sign, and the Village Clerk to attest to, whatever documents are necessary and
perform all actions necessary to finalize the implementation of the Traffic
Enforcement Program subject to approval of the documents by the Village
Attorney including, but not limited to, the execution of the agreement
referenced in Ord. 08-01as Exhibit 1 and any and all necessary permits with the
Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT).
(Ord. 08-01, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 70.04 SOUND AMPLIFICATION DEVICES IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No driver or owner of any motor vehicle within the village shall operate or
permit operation of any amplification system which can be heard outside the
vehicle from 75 or more feet when the vehicle is being operated upon a street,
highway or roadway unless the system is being operated to request assistance or
warn of a hazardous situation. This section does not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles.
(Ord. 01-13, passed 9-11-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 SURFACING OF PARKING AREAS.
   All off-street parking areas shall be surfaced with a dustless all-weather
material, which shall be defined as either cement or asphalt. In addition,
proper drainage shall be provided.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 TRUCKS ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   (A)   No truck shall be allowed to operate on the residential streets of the
village.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety shall post signs prohibiting truck use
on the streets which are so designated as residential streets.
      (1)   Signs shall be of the size as set forth in the Illinois Motor
Vehicle Code.
      (2)   Signs shall clearly state “No Truck Traffic”.
   (C)   Exceptions:
      (1)   Delivery to a residence;
      (2)   Municipally-licensed and registered trucks and vehicles;
      (3)   State highways and state-maintained streets; and
      (4)   Streets leading to or from a business district which is
inaccessible by a state thoroughfare.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RESIDENTIAL STREET. Any street within the corporate boundaries of the
village and so designated by the village.
      TRUCK. Any vehicle with a gross weight in excess of 26,001 pounds.
(Ord. 04-15, passed 6-1-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
§ 70.20 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, firefighter or uniformed adult school crossing
guard invested by law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203) (Prior Code, § 70.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC CODE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or
operated by the United States, the state, or any county, city, town, district
or any other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this
section, and subject to specific exceptions as set forth in this title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (C)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions.
   (D)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion, or visual signals meeting the
requirements of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215.
   (E)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do these provisions protect the driver from the consequences
of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (F)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles and equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the highway, but shall apply to the persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from the work.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205) (Prior Code, § 70.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving an animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights, and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this chapter, except those
provisions of this chapter which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206) (Prior Code, § 70.12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of a motor vehicle
who, having been given a visual or audible signal by a police officer directing
the driver or operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, willfully fails
or refuses to obey that direction, increases his or her speed, extinguishes his
or her lights or otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer.
   (B)   The signal given by the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren or
a red or blue light.
   (C)   However, the officer giving the signal shall be in police uniform and,
if driving a vehicle, the vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official
police vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 70.13) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
§ 70.35 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed or held in accordance with
this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the
exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
traffic code.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
   (C)   No provision of this traffic code, for which official traffic-control
devices are required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, the section shall be effective even though no devices are
erected or in place.
   (D)   Whenever any official traffic-control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this traffic code, the
device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority, and comply with the requirements of this traffic
code, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic-control signal on which
no signal light facing the vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
the intersection, in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a
stop sign.
   (F)   Any violation of division (A) that occurs within a designated highway
construction zone or maintenance zone shall result in a fine of no less than
$100 and no more than $1,000.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-305) (Prior Code, § 70.30) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively one at a time or
in combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except for
special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at a place prohibits
either turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall
yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by the arrow, or another movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. The vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, as
provided in §
70.37, pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.37, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway
before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall then start to cross
the roadway.
   (C)   Flashing yellow arrow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a flashing yellow arrow indication may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the
arrow and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a flashing yellow arrow indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-307, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk that crosses the lane or lanes used to depart the intersection by
traffic controlled by the flashing yellow arrow indication. Pedestrians shall
yield the right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time
that the flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
   (D)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection; or, if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain standing until an indication to
proceed is shown.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, vehicular
traffic facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the intersection to
make the movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering the intersection
to make a movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain standing until an indication
permitting the movement indicated by the red arrow is shown.
      (3)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn and the village
authorities by ordinance or state authorities by rule or regulation prohibit
any turn, vehicular traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously enter
the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a
one-way street, after stopping as required by divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) of
this section. After stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or
within the intersection or junction or roadways. The driver shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk.
      (4)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as
provided in §
70.37, pedestrians facing a steady circular red or red arrow signal alone shall
not enter the roadway.
   (E)   Applicability. In the event an official traffic-control signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this section shall be applicable, except as to provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or a
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made; or, in the
absence of the sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306) (Prior Code, § 70.31) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Don’t Walk” or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, these signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   “Walk” or walking person symbol. Pedestrians facing this signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and shall be given
the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don’t Walk” or upraised palm signal. No pedestrian shall start to
cross the roadway in the direction of this signal, but any pedestrian who has
partly completed his or her crossing on the “Walk” signal or upraised palm
symbol shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the “Don’t Walk”
signal or upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady or flashing.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-307) (Prior Code, § 70.32) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38 LANE-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever lane-control signals are used in conjunction with official signs,
they shall have the following meanings.
   (A)   Downward-pointing green arrow. A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise, he or she shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow
normal safe driving practices.
   (B)   Red X symbol. A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise, he or
she shall obey all other traffic controls and follow normal safe driving
practices.
   (C)   Yellow X (steady). A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   (D)   Flashing yellow arrow. A driver facing this indication may use the
lane only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-308) (Prior Code, § 70.33) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in conjunction
with a traffic-control device, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic
as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
   (C)   Applicability. This section does not apply at railroad grade
crossings.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-309) (Prior Code, § 70.34) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.40 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS OR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be,
or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of an official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any traffic-control device to
be used on any street or highway in the village which does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information,
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (F)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection of State
Adopt-A-Highway signs by the village, as provided in the State Adopt-A-Highway
Act, ILCS 605, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-310) (Prior Code, § 70.35) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.41 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device, or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-311) (Prior Code, § 70.36) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.42 UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES AND STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure or damage any public
highway or street, or any bridge or culvert, or to willfully damage, injure or
remove any sign, signpost or structure upon or used or constructed in
connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof, or for
the protection or regulation of traffic thereon, by any willfully unusual,
improper or unreasonable use thereof, or by willfully careless driving or use
of any vehicle thereon, or by willful mutilation, defacing, destruction or
removal thereof.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312) (Prior Code, § 70.37) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.43 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   The Village Street Department, with reference to traffic-control signs,
signals or markers owned by the village, is authorized to indicate the
ownership of the signs, signals or markers on the back of the devices in
letters not less than three-eighths inch, or more than three-fourths inch in
height, by use of a metal stamp, etching or other permanent means. Except for
employees of the Village Street Department, police officers, contractors and
their employees engaged in a highway construction contract or work on the
highway approved by the village, it is unlawful for any person to possess a
sign, signal or marker so identified.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-313) (Prior Code, § 70.38) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.44 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device, except in an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 70.39) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.45 NO-TURNING SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
sign. When authorized marks, buttons or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles, no driver of a
vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
(Prior Code, § 70.40) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.46 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs, as authorized in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle and every motorman of a streetcar approaching
a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no
crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the
point nearest the intersection roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for
safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1204) (Prior Code, § 70.41) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.47 LOCATION OF VILLAGE TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS.
   The locations of authorized traffic-control signs in the village are set
forth by the village.
(Prior Code, § 70.42)
VEHICLE LICENSES
§ 70.60 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes automobiles, locomobiles and all other vehicles
propelled otherwise than by muscular power, except traction engine and road
rollers, the cars of electric and steam railways, and other motor vehicles
running only upon rails or tracks, but nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed to affect bicycles or tricycles or other vehicles propelled
exclusively by muscular power.
(Prior Code, § 70.50)
§ 70.61 LICENSES.
   (A)   Every owner or operator of a motor vehicle or motor bicycle who
resides within the village shall pay each year to the Clerk a tax or license
fee for the use of each motor vehicle or motor bicycle used on any public
street or alley in the village, as is hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Every owner or operator of a motor vehicle or motor bicycle where the
vehicle is principally garaged within the village, or principally dispatched
from the village or where the movements of the vehicle usually originate from
the village shall pay each year to the Clerk a tax or license fee for the use
of each motor vehicle or motor bicycle used on any public street or alley in
the village, as is hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 70.51) (Ord. 97-3, passed 6-2-1997) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.62 TIME OF PAYMENT; LICENSE YEAR; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The vehicle license fees in the village shall be as follows:
 
Passenger car/motorbike/motorcycle $20 $30
R.V. plates                        $30 $40
Transfer or replacement of plate   $10 $10
Truck/tractor/bus
   Plates B                     $40 $50
   Plates D to H                $55 $70
   Plates J to Z                $75 $95
 
      (2)   Residents who are 65 years old or older are entitled to waiver of
the fee for one vehicle license per household.
      (3)   Individuals who are residing in the village temporarily with family
or friends may purchase a temporary vehicle license for 30 days for $25. This
temporary vehicle license may be renewed no more than two times for a maximum
of 90 days total. The fee to renew a temporary vehicle license shall be $25.
      (4)   A 50% reduction in the cost of the vehicle licenses shall be
provided if the vehicle license is purchased during the months of April or May
for new vehicle or new residency.
      (5)   All vehicle registrations must be legally registered to the address
where the owner resides within the village boundaries. Vehicle licenses will
not be permitted for any commercial or work vehicles to any residents.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall not issue a vehicle license for a current year
if it appears that the applicant had failed to obtain a vehicle license for the
preceding year unless the license fee for the preceding year, as well as the
current license fee, shall accompany the application; provided that, if
purchase of vehicle is made after six months of the license year has expired,
then upon application being made to the Clerk, a license shall be issued for
the remainder of the year upon payment of one-half of the fee herein required.
   (C)   The fee paid for each of the first three vehicles licensed at a
single-family home shall be the appropriate fee set forth in division (A) of
this section. The fee paid for each vehicle in excess of three vehicles
licensed at a single-family home shall be $100. The fee paid for each of the
first two vehicles licensed at a multiple dwelling unit or mobile home shall be
the appropriate fee set forth in division (A) of this section. The fee paid for
each vehicle in excess of two vehicles licensed at a multiple dwelling unit
shall be $100.
(Prior Code, § 70.52) (Ord. 11-10, passed 5-10-2011; Ord. 13-13, passed 8-27-
2013; Ord. 14-11, passed 5-13-2014; Ord. 18-07, passed 4-10-2018; Ord. 18-20,
passed 6-26-2018; Ord. 23-12, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 70.63 WINDSHIELD STICKER.
   Each applicant, upon payment of the fee, shall be given a windshield
sticker, which sticker shall be fastened in a prominent and visible place on
the lower right-hand corner of the windshield of the vehicle at all times that
it is operating in the village.
(Prior Code, § 70.53) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.64 USE OF FUNDS.
   All revenue derived from the license fees, except for the cost of issuing
the licenses and collecting the fees, shall be kept as a separate fund and used
only for paying the cost of street or alley repairs and improvements, as
provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 70.54)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Traffic violations generally. Whoever violates any provision of
this traffic code for which another penalty is not already otherwise provided
by ordinance or by appropriate statutory penalty as generally set forth in ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 16-101 et seq., shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine
of not more than $500.
      (2)   Parking violations generally. Any person accused of a violation of
any provision of this traffic code prohibiting parking a vehicle in a
designated area, or restricting the length of time a vehicle may be there
parked, or parking in a metered area without putting a coin in the meter to
cover the required time, may settle and compromise the claim against him or her
for the illegal parking by paying to the village $3 for each offense if paid
within five days, or $10 if paid within 21 days. The payment may be made at the
police station, a receipt shall be issued for all money so received, and the
money shall be promptly turned over to the Village Treasurer to be credited to
the General Fund. The members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to
refrain from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense involved. This
section shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as to obstruct the
entrance or exit of any place where Police or Fire Department apparatus or
other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or so as to block an emergency
entrance in a hospital; nor shall this section apply to any person charged with
parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any street or alley, or
parking in a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial street to one-way traffic
only; nor to any person who refuses to move a vehicle illegally parked at the
request of any member of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision, or any parts thereof, of §
70.03, shall be fined not less than $50, or more than $100, for each offense.
Failure to pay the original fine or file a petition to set aside the final
determination within 15 days of the issuance of the notice of final
determination shall result in an additional $100 penalty.
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
70.04 shall be fined $250.
   (D)   Any person or entity found to be in violation of the terms and
conditions of §
70.05 shall be subject to a fine of $50 per day for each and every day that the
violation is in existence.
   (E)   Any violation of §
70.06 shall result in a fine not to exceed $500.
   (F)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of §
70.41 shall be punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other
penalties which may be imposed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-311) (Prior Code, § 70.36)
   (G)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of §
70.42 shall be punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other
penalty which may be imposed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312) (Prior Code, § 70.37)
(Ord. 01-13, passed 9-11-2001; Ord. 04-15, passed 6-1-2004; Ord. 07-07, passed
6-12-2007; Ord. 08-01, passed 1-8-2008)
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF OPERATION
Section
Speed Restrictions
   
71.001   Speed limits
   
71.002   Special speed limits while passing schools
   
71.003   Maximum attainable operating speed
   
71.004   Minimum speed regulation
Turning and Starting; Signals
   
71.020   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.021   Limitations on U-turns
   
71.022   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.023   When signal required
   
71.024   Signal by hand and arm or signal device
   
71.025   Method of giving hand and arm signals
Overtaking and Passing
   
71.040   Driving on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.041   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.042   Overtaking vehicles on the left
   
71.043   When overtaking on the right is permitted
   
71.044   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.045   Meeting or overtaking school bus
   
71.046   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.047   No-passing zones
   
71.048   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
Right-of-Way
   
71.060   Vehicles approaching or entering intersection
   
71.061   Vehicle turning left
   
71.062   Vehicles entering stop crosswalk
   
71.063   Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection
   
71.064   Merging traffic
   
71.065   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   
71.066   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.067   Funeral processions
Special Stops Required
   
71.080   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train or railroad track
equipment
   
71.081   Certain vehicles must stop at all railroad grade crossings
   
71.082   Emerging from alley, building, private road or driveway
   
71.083   Stop when traffic obstructed
Prohibitions
   
71.095   Backing
   
71.096   Following vehicle too closely
   
71.097   Obstruction of driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
71.098   Opening vehicle doors
   
71.099   Coasting
   
71.100   Following fire apparatus; driving over fire hose
   
71.101   Driving upon sidewalk
   
71.102   Use of roller skates, coasters or similar devices
   
71.103   Putting glass or other hazardous materials on highway prohibited
   
71.104   Obstructing person in highways
   
71.105   Farm tractor operation
   
71.106   Driving on controlled-access highway
Parades
   
71.120   Definitions
   
71.121   Permit required
   
71.122   Application for permit
   
71.123   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.124   Notice of rejection of permit application
   
71.125   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.126   Alternative permit
   
71.127   Notice to village and other officials when permit issued
   
71.128   Contents of permit
   
71.129   Duties of permittee
   
71.130   Public conduct during parades
   
71.131   Revocation of permit
One-Way Roads
   
71.145   (Reserved)
   
71.146   (Reserved)
   
71.147   (Reserved)
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.001 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of the village at a
speed which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or which endangers the safety of any
person or property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway or when a special hazard exists with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person
or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and
the duty of all persons to use due care.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, URBAN DISTRICT does not include any
interstate highway as defined by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-133.1 which includes
all highways under the jurisdiction of the Illinois State Toll Highway
Authority.
   (B)   No person may drive a vehicle upon any street at a speed which is
greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit established by
divisions (C) and (D) below, by §
71.002, or by a regulation or ordinance made under this chapter.
   (C)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in an urban district (as defined in §
70.01) for all vehicles is:
      (1)   Thirty mph; and
      (2)   Fifteen mph in an alley.
   (D)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in a non-urban district is 55 mph.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601) (Prior Code, § 71.001) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate speed, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1, and ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 11-604
§ 71.002 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, SCHOOL means the following entities:
      (1)   A public or private primary or secondary school.
      (2)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious institution.
      (3)   A public, private, or religious nursery school.
   (B)   On a school day when school children are present and so close thereto
that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the motorized
traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 miles
per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling on a local, county, or
state roadway on public school property or upon any public thoroughfare where
children pass going to and from school.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, a school day begins at 6:30 a.m. and
concludes at 4:00 p.m.
   (D)   This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets and highways wherein the school zone is located. With
regard to the special speed limit while passing schools, such signs shall give
proper due warning that a school zone is being approached and shall indicate
the school zone and the maximum speed limit in effect during school days when
school children are present.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a special school speed zone
indicating such zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence obtained
thereby be inadmissible in any prosecution for speeding provided the use of
such device shall apply only to the enforcement of the speed limit in such
special school speed zone.
   (F)   Except as provided in division (G) of this section, a person who
violates this section is guilty of a petty offense. Violations of this section
are punishable with a minimum fine of $150 for the first violation, a minimum
fine of $300 for the second or subsequent violation, and community service in
an amount determined by the court.
   (G)   A person committing a violation of this section is guilty of
aggravated special speed limit while passing schools when he or she drives a
motor vehicle at a speed that is:
      (1)   Twenty-six miles per hour or more but less than 35 miles per hour
in excess of the applicable special speed limit established under this section
or a similar provision of a local ordinance and is guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor; or
      (2)   Thirty-five miles per hour or more in excess of the applicable
special speed limit established under this section or a similar provision of a
local ordinance and is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605) (Prior Code, § 71.002)
§ 71.003 MAXIMUM ATTAINABLE OPERATING SPEED.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle on any street or
highway in this village where the minimum allowable speed on that street or
highway, as posted, is greater than the maximum attainable operating speed of
the vehicle.
   (B)   Maximum attainable operating speed shall be determined by the
manufacturer of the vehicle and clearly published in the manual of
specifications and operation, or it shall be determined by applicable rule and
regulation promulgated by the Secretary of Illinois State.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-611) (Prior Code, § 71.003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.004 MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a slow speed as to impede or block
the normal and regular movement of traffic, except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation of his or her vehicle or in compliance with law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606(a)) (Prior Code, § 71.004) Penalty, see §
70.99
TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
§ 71.020 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows.
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   The State Department of Transportation and local authorities in
their respective jurisdictions may cause official traffic-control devices to be
placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that
a different course from that specified in this section be traveled by vehicles
turning at an intersection, and when the devices are so placed no driver of a
vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and
required by the devices.
   (B)   Where a special lane for making left turns by drivers proceeding in
opposite directions has been indicated by official traffic-control devices:
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane; and/or
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane, except when preparing
for or making a left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or
making a U-turn when otherwise permitted by law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-801) (Prior Code, § 71.020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.021 LIMITATIONS ON U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where the
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-802) (Prior Code, § 71.021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.022 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked, unless
and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-803) (Prior Code, § 71.022) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.023 WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the highway as required in §
71.020 or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn
a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person may so turn
any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, change lanes, otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, move right or left upon a highway, or when
required must be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet
traveled by the vehicle within a business or residence district, and such
signal must be given continuously during not less than the last 200 feet
traveled by the vehicle outside a business or residence district.
   (C)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this chapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give such a signal.
   (D)   The electric turn signal device required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-
208 must be used and operated as prescribed in division (B) of this section to
indicate an intention to turn, change lanes, turn a vehicle from a direct
course, move right or left upon a highway, or start from a parallel parked
position. Unless the conditions of division (B) of this section are met, an
electric turn signal device required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208 shall not
be left in the on position and must not be flashed on one side only on a parked
or disabled vehicle or flashed as a courtesy or "do pass" signal to operators
of other vehicles approaching from the rear. However, such signal devices may
be flashed simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle to indicate the
presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching,
overtaking and passing.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-804) (Prior Code, § 71.023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.024 SIGNAL BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device conforming to
the requirements provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-805) (Prior Code, § 71.024) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.025 METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the
vehicle in the following manner, and the signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease of speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-806) (Prior Code, § 71.025) Penalty, see §
70.99
OVERTAKING AND PASSING
§ 71.040 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing those movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within a distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic; and
      (5)   Whenever there is a single-track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right-of-way on the pavement to the other
vehicle.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction, or
when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic, and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the
lanes, or except as permitted under division (A)(2) above. However, this
division (C) shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center
line in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road or driveway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-701) (Prior Code, § 71.040) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.041 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-702) (Prior Code, § 71.041) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.042 OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and special
rules otherwise stated in this chapter.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall the movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal, and shall not increase the speed of his
or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the left
of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed lane
of traffic available to permit the passing maneuver safely.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-703) (Prior Code, § 71.042) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.043 WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle with three or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle; and
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of any
other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed pavement
to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less than eight
feet. This division does not apply to devices propelled by human power.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement
shall not be made by driving off the roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-704) (Prior Code, § 71.043) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.044 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   Passing on the left.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this chapter, and unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction, or any vehicle overtaken.
      (2)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to an authorized
lane of travel as soon as practicable, and in the event the passing movement
involves the use of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-705)
   (B)   Conditions where passing on the left is prohibited.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway under
the following conditions:
         (a)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within a distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction;
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing; and/or
         (c)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of
any bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
      (2)   The limitations in division (B)(1) above do not apply upon a one-
way roadway, nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width
for two or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction, nor to the driver of
a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road or driveway when the
movements can be made with safety.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-706)
(Prior Code, § 71.044) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.045 MEETING OR OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop such vehicle before meeting or
overtaking, from either direction, any school bus stopped on a highway,
roadway, private road, parking lot, school property, or at any other location,
including, without limitation, a location that is not a highway or roadway for
the purpose of receiving or discharging pupils. Such stop is required before
reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus the visual
signals as specified in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-803 and 12-805. The driver
of the vehicle shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the
driver of the vehicle is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or the
visual signals are no longer actuated.
   (B)   The stop signal arm required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-803 shall be
extended after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of
loading or discharging pupils and shall be closed before the school bus is
placed in motion again. The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other
time.
   (C)   The alternately flashing red signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805 shall be actuated after
the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be turned off before the school bus is placed in
motion again. The red signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time
except as provided in division (D) of this section.
   (D)   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805 shall be actuated
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the school bus
before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils within an
urban area and during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by the school
bus outside an urban area. The amber signal lamps shall remain actuated until
the school bus is stopped. The amber signal lamps shall not be actuated at any
other time.
   (D-5)   The alternately flashing head lamps permitted by ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 12-805 may be operated while the alternately flashing red or amber signal
lamps required by that section are actuated.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway having four or more lanes which
permits at least two lanes of traffic to travel in opposite directions need not
stop such vehicle upon meeting a school bus which is stopped in the opposing
roadway; and need not stop such vehicle when driving upon a controlled access
highway when passing a school bus traveling in either direction that is stopped
in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved part of the controlled
access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to cross.
   (F)   (1)   Beginning with January 1, 2023, the Secretary of State shall
suspend for a period of three months the driving privileges of any person
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section or a similar provision
of a local ordinance; the Secretary shall suspend for a period of one year the
driving privileges of any person convicted of a second or subsequent violation
of division (A) of this section or a similar provision of a local ordinance if
the second or subsequent violation occurs within five years of a prior
conviction for the same offense. In addition to the suspensions authorized by
this section, any person convicted of violating this section or a similar
provision of a local ordinance shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $300 or,
upon a second or subsequent violation, $1,000, and community service in an
amount set by the court. The Secretary may also grant, for the duration of any
suspension issued under this division, a restricted driving permit granting the
privilege of driving a motor vehicle between the driver's residence and place
of employment or within other proper limits that the Secretary of State shall
find necessary to avoid any undue hardship. A restricted driving permit issued
hereunder shall be subject to cancellation, revocation and suspension by the
Secretary of State in like manner and for like cause as a driver's license may
be cancelled, revoked or suspended; except that a conviction upon one or more
offenses against laws or ordinances regulating the movement of traffic shall be
deemed sufficient cause for the revocation, suspension or cancellation of the
restricted driving permit. The Secretary of State may, as a condition to the
issuance of a restricted driving permit, require the applicant to participate
in a designated driver remedial or rehabilitative program. Any conviction for a
violation of this section shall be included as an offense for the purposes of
determining suspension action under any other provision of this chapter,
provided however, that the penalties provided under this division shall be
imposed unless those penalties imposed under other applicable provisions are
greater.
      (2)   The owner of any vehicle alleged to have violated division (A) of
this section shall, upon appropriate demand by the State's Attorney or other
designated person acting in response to a signed complaint, provide a written
statement or deposition identifying the operator of the vehicle if such
operator was not the owner at the time of the alleged violation. Failure to
supply such information shall result in the suspension of the vehicle
registration of the vehicle for a period of three months. In the event the
owner has assigned control for the use of the vehicle to another, the person to
whom control was assigned shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph
and be subject to the same penalties as herein provided.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1414) (Prior Code, § 71.045) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.046 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only
to the right of the island.
   (C)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across or within any dividing space, barrier or
section, except through an opening in the physical barrier, or dividing
section, or space, or at a cross-over or intersection as established by public
authority.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle may turn left across a paved non-curbed
dividing space unless prohibited by an official traffic-control device.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708) (Prior Code, § 71.046) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.047 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to determine those portions of any
highway within the village where overtaking and passing or driving on the left
of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and may by appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of the zones, and when
signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant
person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in division (A), no driver may at any time drive on the left side of
the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any pavement
striping designed to mark the no-passing zone throughout its length.
   (C)   This section does not apply under the conditions described in §
71.040(A)(2), nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an
alley, private road or driveway. The pavement striping designed to mark the no-
passing zone may be crossed from the left-hand lane for the purpose of
completing a pass that was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the
driver’s direction of travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-707) (Prior Code, § 71.047) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.048 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for two-
way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane,
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and the allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices.
   (C)   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such device.
On multi-lane controlled access highways with three or more lanes in one
direction or on any multi-laned highway with two or more lanes in one
direction, the Department may designate lanes of traffic to be used by
different types of motor vehicles. Drivers must obey lane designation signing,
except when it is necessary to use a different lane to make a turning maneuver.
   (D)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every device.
   (E)   A person is not in violation of this section if he or she in complying
with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-907, 11-907.5, or 11-908.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-709) (Prior Code, § 71.048) Penalty, see §
70.99
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.060 VEHICLES APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
roadways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
must yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   This rule may be modified at through highways or streets and where
otherwise inconsistent with the provisions of this traffic code.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901) (Prior Code, § 71.060) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.061 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection
or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed
as soon as a safe interval occurs.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-902) (Prior Code, § 71.061) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.062 VEHICLES ENTERING STOP CROSSWALK.
   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection, or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk, and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right-of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-903) (Prior Code, § 71.062) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.063 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs.
   (B)   (1)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line but if none,
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
      (2)   After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway, or which
is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed as soon as a safe interval
occurs.
   (C)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in
obedience to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing
conditions, and, if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
      (2)   After slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way
to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely
as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving
across or within the intersection.
   (D)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, the collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904) (Prior Code, § 71.063) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.064 MERGING TRAFFIC.
   Notwithstanding the right-of-way provision in §
71.060, at an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for merging
traffic, the driver of each vehicle on the converging roadways is required to
adjust his or her vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a
collision with another vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-905) (Prior Code, § 71.064) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.065 VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley,
building, private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway to be entered.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-906) (Prior Code, § 71.065) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.066 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this chapter or a
police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual signal
the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the
right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection and shall, if
necessary to permit the safe passage of the emergency vehicle, stop and remain
in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
   (C)   (1)   Upon approaching a stationary authorized emergency vehicle, when
the authorized emergency vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing red, red and white, blue, or red and blue lights or amber or yellow
warning lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall:
         (a)   Proceeding with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a
lane change into a lane not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency
vehicle, if possible with due regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a
highway having at least four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in
the same direction as the approaching vehicle; or
         (b)   If changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe, proceeding with
due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed for road
conditions and leaving a safe distance until safely past the stationary
emergency vehicles.
      (2)   The visual signal specified under this division (C) given by an
authorized emergency vehicle is an indication to drivers of approaching
vehicles that a hazardous condition is present when circumstances are not
immediately clear. Drivers of vehicles approaching a stationary emergency
vehicle in any lane shall heed the warning of the signal, reduce the speed of
the vehicle, proceed with due caution, maintain a safe speed for road
conditions, be prepared to stop, and leave a safe distance until safely passed
the stationary emergency vehicle.
      (3)   As used in this division (C), AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE includes
any vehicle authorized by law to be equipped with oscillating, rotating, or
flashing lights under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215, while the owner or
operator of the vehicle is engaged in his or her official duties.
   (D)   A person who violates division (C) of this section commits a business
offense punishable by a fine of not less than $250 or more than $10,000 for a
first violation, and a fine of not less than $750 or more than $10,000 for a
second or subsequent violation. It is a factor in aggravation if the person
committed the offense while in violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-501, 12-
610.1, or 12-610.2. Imposition of the penalties authorized by this division (D)
for a violation of division (C) of this section that results in the death of
another person does not preclude imposition of appropriate additional civil or
criminal penalties. A person who violates division (C) of this section and the
violation results in damage to another vehicle commits a Class A misdemeanor.
   (E)   If a violation of division (C) of this section results in damage to
the property of another person, in addition to any other penalty imposed, the
person's driving privileges shall be suspended for a fixed period of not less
than 90 days and not more than one year.
   (F)   If a violation of division (C) of this section results in injury to
another person, in addition to any other penalty imposed, the person's driving
privileges shall be suspended for a fixed period of not less than 180 days and
not more than two years.
   (G)   If a violation of division (C) of this section results in the death of
another person, in addition to any other penalty imposed, the person's driving
privileges shall be suspended for two years.
   (H)   The Secretary of State shall, upon receiving a record of a judgment
entered against a person under division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Suspend the person's driving privileges for the mandatory period;
or
      (2)   Extend the period of an existing suspension by the appropriate
mandatory period.
   (I)   The Scott's Law Fund shall be a special fund in the state treasury.
Subject to appropriation by the General Assembly and approval by the Director,
the Director of the State Police shall use all moneys in the Scott's Law Fund
in the Department's discretion to fund the production of materials to educate
drivers on approaching stationary authorized emergency vehicles, to hire off-
duty Department of State Police for enforcement of this section, and for other
law enforcement purposes the Director deems necessary in these efforts.
   (J)   For violations of this section issued by a county or municipal police
officer, the assessment shall be deposited into the county's or municipality's
Transportation Safety Highway Hire-back Fund. The county shall use the moneys
in its Transportation Safety Highway Hire-back Fund to hire off-duty county
police officers to monitor construction or maintenance zones in that county on
highways other than interstate highways. The county, in its discretion, may
also use a portion of the moneys in its Transportation Safety Highway Hire-back
Fund to purchase equipment for county law enforcement and fund the production
of materials to educate drivers on construction zone safe driving habits and
approaching stationary authorized emergency vehicles.
   (K)   In addition to other penalties imposed by this section, the court may
order a person convicted of a violation of division (C) of this section to
perform community service as determined by the court.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907) (Prior Code, § 71.066) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.067 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising the procession have their headlights lighted, subject to
the following conditions and exceptions.
      (1)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an
audible or visible signal.
      (2)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer.
      (3)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic-control signals but when the leading vehicle
has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with the signal or after
stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in the procession may
proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal, and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his or her vehicle in the funeral procession, except when authorized to
do so by a traffic officer or when the vehicle is an authorized emergency
vehicle giving audible or visible signal.
   (C)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form
a procession or convoy and have their headlights lighted for the purpose of
securing the right-of-way granted by this section to funeral processions.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicles in the procession if the overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with the
procession.
   (E)   (1)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with
a flashing amber light which may be used only when the vehicle is used as a
lead vehicle in the procession.
      (2)   Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may utilize funeral
pennants or flags or windshield stickers to identify the individual vehicles in
a procession.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1420) (Prior Code, § 71.067) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 71.080 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN OR RAILROAD TRACK
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing where the driver is not always required to stop, the person must
exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad track across a
highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in
this section, the driver shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until the tracks
are clear and he or she can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall
apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues to
give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
      (3)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a highway
crossing emits a warning signal and such railroad train or railroad track
equipment, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate
hazard;
      (4)   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to such crossing;
      (5)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
   (A-1)   Whenever any person driving a commercial motor vehicle, as defined
in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-500, approaches a railroad grade crossing where the
driver is not always required to stop, the person must exercise due care and
caution as the existence of a railroad track across a highway is a warning of
danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver
shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of
the railroad and shall not proceed until the tracks are clear and he or she can
do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues to
give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
      (3)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a highway
crossing emits a warning signal and such railroad train or railroad track
equipment, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate
hazard;
      (4)   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to such crossing;
      (5)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
   (A-5)   Whenever a person driving a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-500, approaches a railroad grade crossing where the
driver is not always required to stop but must slow down, the person must
exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad track across a
highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in
this section, the driver shall slow down within 50 feet but not less than 15
feet from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until he or
she checks that the tracks are clear of an approaching train or railroad track
equipment.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   The Department, and local authorities with the approval of the
Department, are hereby authorized to designate particularly dangerous highway
grade crossings of railroads and to erect stop signs thereat. When such stop
signs are erected the driver of any vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and shall proceed only
upon exercising due care.
   (D)   At any railroad grade crossing provided with railroad crossbuck signs,
without automatic, electric, or mechanical signal devices, crossing gates, or a
human flagman giving a signal of the approach or passage of a train or railroad
track equipment, the driver of a vehicle shall in obedience to the railroad
crossbuck sign, yield the right-of-way and slow down to a speed reasonable for
the existing conditions and shall stop, if required for safety, at a clearly
marked stopped line, or if no stop line, within 50 feet but not less than 15
feet from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until he or
she can do so safely. If a driver is involved in a collision at a railroad
crossing or interferes with the movement of a train or railroad track equipment
after driving past the railroad crossbuck sign, the collision or interference
is prima facie evidence of the driver's failure to yield right-of-way.
   (D-1)   No person shall, while driving a commercial motor vehicle, fail to
negotiate a railroad-highway grade railroad crossing because of insufficient
undercarriage clearance.
   (E)   It is unlawful to violate any part of this section.
      (1)   A violation of this section is a petty offense for which a fine of
$500 shall be imposed for a first violation, and a fine of $1,000 shall be
imposed for a second or subsequent violation. The court may impose 25 hours of
community service in place of the $500 fine for the first violation.
      (2)   For a second or subsequent violation, the Secretary of State may
suspend the driving privileges of the offender for a minimum of six months.
   (F)   Corporate authorities of municipal corporations regulating operators
of vehicles that fail to obey signals indicating the presence, approach,
passage, or departure of a train or railroad track equipment shall impose fines
as established in division (E) of this section.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201) (Prior Code, § 71.080)
§ 71.081 CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks at grade, stop that vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail and, while so stopped, shall listen and
look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment and shall not
proceed until that movement can be made with safety:
      (1)   Any second division vehicle carrying passengers for hire;
      (2)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school buses
in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-801, 12-803, and 12-805. The driver of the bus,
in addition to complying with all other applicable requirements of this
division (A), must also (i) turn off all noise producing accessories, including
heater blowers, defroster fans, auxiliary fans, and radios, and (ii) open the
service door and driver's window, before crossing a railroad track or tracks;
   (A-1)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks at grade, stop such vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail and, while so stopped, shall listen and
look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment and shall not
proceed until such movement can be made with safety:
      (1)   A commercial motor vehicle, as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-
500, carrying passengers for hire;
      (2)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school buses
in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-801, 12-803, and 12-805 and is designed to
transport 16 or more persons, including the driver. The driver of the bus, in
addition to complying with all other applicable requirements of this division
(A-1), must also (i) turn off all noise producing accessories, including heater
blowers, defroster fans, auxiliary fans, and radios, and (ii) open the service
door and driver's window, before crossing a railroad track or tracks;
      (3)   Any other vehicle which is required by federal or state law to be
placarded when carrying as a cargo or part of a cargo hazardous material as
defined in the Illinois Hazardous Materials Transportation Act.
      After stopping as required in this section, the driver shall proceed only
in a gear not requiring a change of gears during the crossing, and the driver
shall not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks.
   (B)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   At any railroad grade crossing where traffic is controlled by a
police officer or flagperson;
      (2)   At any railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning traffic-
control signal transmitting a green indication which, under law, permits the
vehicle to proceed across the railroad tracks without slowing or stopping,
except that division (A) of this section shall apply to any school bus;
      (3)   At any streetcar grade crossing within a business or residence
district; and/or
      (4)   At any abandoned industrial or spur track railroad grade crossing
designated as exempt by the Illinois Commerce Commission and marked with an
official sign as authorized in the state’s Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1202) (Prior Code, § 71.081) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.082 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road or
driveway within an urban area shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving into the sidewalk area extending across the alley, building entrance,
road or driveway or, in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the
point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic thereon, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrians as may be necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1205) (Prior Code, § 71.082) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.083 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk or railroad grade crossing to accommodate
the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   No driver shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed.
   (B-5)   No driver operating a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-500, shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there
is sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed.
   (C)   Beginning June 30, 2023, the Secretary of State shall suspend for a
period of one month the driving privileges of any person convicted of a
violation of division (B) of this section or a similar provision of a local
ordinance; the Secretary shall suspend for a period of three months the driving
privileges of any person convicted of a second or subsequent violation of
division (B) of this section or a similar provision of a local ordinance if the
second or subsequent violation occurs within five years of a prior conviction
for the same offense. In addition to the suspensions authorized by this
section, any person convicted of violating division (B) of this section or a
similar provision of a local ordinance shall be subject to a mandatory fine of
$500 or 50 hours of community service. Any person given a disposition of court
supervision for violating division (B) of this section or a similar provision
of a local ordinance shall also be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 or 50
hours of community service. Upon a second or subsequent violation, in addition
to the suspensions authorized by this section, the person shall be subject to a
mandatory fine of $500 and 50 hours community service. The Secretary may also
grant, for the duration of any suspension issued under this division, a
restricted driving permit granting the privilege of driving a motor vehicle
between the driver's residence and place of employment or within other proper
limits that the Secretary of State shall find necessary to avoid any undue
hardship. A restricted driving permit issued hereunder shall be subject to
cancellation, revocation and suspension by the Secretary of State in like
manner and for like cause as a driver's license may be cancelled, revoked or
suspended; except that a conviction upon one or more offenses against laws or
ordinances regulating the movement of traffic shall be deemed sufficient cause
for the revocation, suspension or cancellation of the restricted driving
permit. The Secretary of State may, as a condition to the issuance of a
restricted driving permit, require the applicant to participate in a designated
driver remedial or rehabilitative program. Any conviction for a violation of
this section shall be included as an offense for the purposes of determining
suspension action under any other provision of this chapter, provided however,
that the penalties provided under this division shall be imposed unless those
penalties imposed under other applicable provisions are greater.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1425) (Prior Code, § 71.083) Penalty, see §
70.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.095 BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any shoulder or
roadway of any controlled-access highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1402) (Prior Code, § 71.095) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.096 FOLLOWING VEHICLE TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles
and the traffic upon and conditions of the street or highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-710) (Prior Code, § 71.096) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.097 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar shall ride in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s or motorman’s view ahead or to the sides, or to
interfere with his or her control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle or
streetcar.
   (C)   No passenger on a school bus may ride or stand in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s view ahead or to the side or to the rear, or to
interfere with his or her control of the driving mechanism of the bus.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1406) (Prior Code, § 71.097) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.098 OPENING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1407) (Prior Code, § 71.098) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.099 COASTING.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the gears or transmission of the vehicle in neutral.
   (B)   The driver of a truck or bus when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the clutch disengaged.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1410) (Prior Code, § 71.099) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.100 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall
not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
500 feet or stop the vehicle within 500 feet of any fire apparatus stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1411)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street, private road or driveway to be used at
any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official
in command.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412)
(Prior Code, § 71.100) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.101 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any vehicle moved exclusively by human
power, nor to any motorized wheelchair.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.1) (Prior Code, § 71.101) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.102 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, skateboard or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except upon streets set aside as play
streets when authorized by the traffic authority.
(Prior Code, § 71.102) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.103 PUTTING GLASS OR OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw, spill or deposit upon any highway any bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any litter, as defined in the Litter Control
Act, ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3.
   (B)   Any person who violates division (A) upon any highway shall
immediately remove the material or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other debris, except any hazardous substance (as defined in
ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.214), hazardous waste (as defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act
5, § 3.220), and potentially infectious medical waste (as defined in ILCS Ch.
415, Act 5, § 3.360), dropped upon the highway from the vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1413) (Prior Code, § 71.103) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.104 OBSTRUCTING PERSON IN HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay, or
willfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any highway within the
village, or offer for barter or sale merchandise on the highway so as to
interfere with the effective movement of traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416) (Prior Code, § 71.104) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.105 FARM TRACTOR OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a farm tractor on a highway in the village
unless the tractor is being used as an implement of husbandry in connection
with farming operations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the use of a farm tractor as an
implement of husbandry in connection with farming operations shall be deemed to
include use of the tractor in connection with the transportation of
agricultural products and of farm machinery, equipment and supplies, as well as
the transportation of the implement of husbandry from its place of purchase to
its place of storage, in connection with the obtaining of repairs of the
implement of husbandry, and the towing of a registered truck of not more than
8,000 pounds for use as return transportation after the tractor is left at the
place of work or repair.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1418) (Prior Code, § 71.105) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.106 DRIVING ON CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person may drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway,
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-711) (Prior Code, § 71.106) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARADES
§ 71.120 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the village or “cruising”, as defined above.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
(Prior Code, § 71.120)
§ 71.121 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Director of
Public Safety or other authorized village official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities; provided, the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; and/or
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 71.121) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.122 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Director of Public Safety or other authorized village official on forms
provided by the officer.
   (A)   The application for a parade permit shall be filed not less than five
days, or not more than 60 days, before the date on which it is proposed to
conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 71.122) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.123 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Director of Public Safety or other authorized village official shall
issue a permit when, from a consideration of the application and from other
information obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the village to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the village;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
village other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit; and/or
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.123) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.124 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The Director of Public Safety or other authorized village official shall act
on the application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays
and holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.124)
§ 71.125 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a
parade permit to the Board of Trustees. The appeal shall be taken within 30
days after notice of denial.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall act on the appeal within 30 days after its
receipt.
(Prior Code, § 71.125)
§ 71.126 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Director of Public Safety or other authorized village official, in
denying an application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the
conduct of the parade on a date, at a time or over a route different than that
named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit
shall file a written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade
permit shall conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a
parade permit under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.126)
§ 71.127 NOTICE TO VILLAGE AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the President and the Director of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 71.127)
§ 71.128 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.128) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.129 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.129) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.130 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle, except a police car
or other emergency vehicle, shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Director of Public Safety, or other
authorized village official, shall have the authority, when reasonably
necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or
other public thoroughfare or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a
parade. Signs shall be posted to that effect, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person
shall be liable for parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless
signs have been posted in accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 71.130) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.131 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The village shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued
hereunder on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 71.131)
ONE-WAY ROADS
§ 71.145 (RESERVED)
§ 71.146 (RESERVED)
§ 71.147 (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   General parking regulations
   
72.02   Unattended motor vehicles
Restrictions on Stopping, Standing and Parking
   
72.15   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.16   Stopping, standing or parking outside business or residence district
   
72.17   Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for handicapped
   
72.18   Alleys
   
72.19   Overnight parking; permits
   
72.20   Permit parking regulations
   
72.21   Parking during street cleaning
Snow Emergencies
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
Violations
   
72.50   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   
72.51   Duty of lessor of vehicle on notice of violation of this chapter
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative Code Hearings, see §§
10.30 through
10.38
   Automated traffic law enforcement system, see §
70.03
   General traffic code penalty, see §
70.99
   Surfacing of parking areas, see §
70.05
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close as
practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   (B)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so
stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction
of authorized traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of
the right-hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-
hand shoulder, or with its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or as close as practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   (C)   No angle parking shall be permitted, except as set forth from time to
time by the village.
   (D)   No person shall park in violation of signs placed by and under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Transportation which prohibit, limit or
restrict the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304) (Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Except for a law enforcement officer or an operator of an authorized
emergency vehicle performing his or her official duties, no person driving or
in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without
stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition,
effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any perceptible
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway. An
unattended motor vehicle shall not include an unattended locked motor vehicle
with the engine running after being started by a remote starter system.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1401) (Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
RESTRICTIONS ON STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
§ 72.15 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or an official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers and/or
         (l)   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or digital registration sticker or current
temporary permit pending registration.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 15 feet of a crosswalk, stop sign or any traffic signal
at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of the entrance (when properly sign posted); and/or
         (e)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; and/
or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1303) (Prior Code, § 72.10) (Ord. 02-04, passed 2-
12-2002) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park or so leave the vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view
of the stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon the highway.
   (B)   The village, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction or for
the maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any highway where
in its opinion stopping, standing or parking is dangerous to those using the
highway, or where stopping, standing or parking vehicles would unduly interfere
with the free movement of traffic thereon. Any regulations adopted by the
village regarding the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles upon any
specific street, streets or highways become effective at the time of the
erection of appropriate signs indicating the regulations.
   (C)   This section, §
72.15 and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304, shall not apply to the driver of any
vehicle which is disabled in a manner and to an extent that it is impossible to
avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle in that position.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301) (Prior Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR HANDICAPPED.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not properly
displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with disabilities,
as defined by §
70.01, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616 or 11-1301.2, or to a veteran
with a disability pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §3 -609, as evidence that
the vehicle is operated by or for a person with disabilities or a veteran with
a disability, in any parking place, including any private or public off-street
parking facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an official sign as
designated under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §11-301, for motor vehicles bearing the
registration plates.
   (B)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Police Department,
remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by the handicapped
which does not display handicapped registration plates or a special decal or
device as required under this section.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this section
shall be fined as set forth in §
72.99 in addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage
of any motor vehicle authorized under this section.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3) (Prior Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in a manner. No person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property. Residents may park their vehicles
directly behind their respective residence for a period of no more than 15
minutes for the purpose of unloading their vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.13) (Ord. 17-16, passed 9-12-2017) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 OVERNIGHT PARKING; PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park on any residential street within the
village between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., except by permit.
   (B)   The display of a vehicle sticker issued by the village shall
constitute a permit; provided, however, that vehicles with ladders attached to
the top of the vehicle, all box trucks, and vans more than 20 feet in length
are not permitted to park on residential streets between the hours of 12:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m., even though they display a vehicle sticker issued by the
village.
   (C)   Guests and invitees of residents of the village and transients may
park without permit upon notification to the Police Department by the resident
advising the Police Department of the description and license plate of the
vehicle.
   (D)   Signs shall be erected near each corner of every residential block
advising that overnight parking is by permit only.
(Prior Code, § 72.14) (Ord. 71-5, passed 9-13-1971; Ord. 84-9, passed 12-10-
1984; Ord. 14-15, passed 6-10-2014) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.20 PERMIT PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Permit parking only. No person shall park his or her vehicle on
a street posted permit parking only. Violators will be towed unless the person
possesses the proper permit.
      (2)   Posting and notice. The Director of Public Safety shall be
empowered to post signs and provide proper notice of the restrictions on
parking pursuant to this division (A).
      (3)   Limitations. The provisions of this division (A) imposing
restrictions on parking do not relieve any person from the duty to observe
other and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
   (B)   (1)   A village resident may receive permission to park overnight on
the village streets without the proper parking permit, upon notifying the
Police Department on the day preceding the night of the parking of the vehicle.
A village resident or outside guest with the permission of the resident may
apply for and receive permission to park his or her vehicle on the street in
violation of the permit parking restrictions 12 times per year per vehicle.
      (2)   No parking permits for the village shall be issued to any non-
residents, whether temporary or otherwise.
      (3)   A temporary parking permit may be purchased from the Village Clerk
in the amount of $30 for a two-month period or as may be amended by the Village
Board of Trustees. In order to qualify for a temporary parking permit the
vehicle must be owned, leased or rented by a resident and the vehicle may not
be registered by the Secretary of Illinois State as a “D” or above license
plate. One renewal will be permitted per year. Categories listed in divisions
(C)(1) and (C)(4) are exempt from the renewal restriction.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, the following
categories of people shall be eligible to purchase a temporary parking permit
with proper documentation:
      (1)   Healthcare providers who provide health care services to residents
of Stone Park and need the permit to facilitate the provision of those
services.
      (2)   Individuals whose family lives in Stone Park and who are attending
college and need the permit to facilitate visits home to their family.
      (3)   Stone Park resident whose vehicle is being repaired and are using a
rental car or a vehicle loaned to them during the repairs. Must have government
issued driver's license or I.D. with a Stone Park address and repair/rental
verification paperwork.
      (4)   Stone Park residents who are assigned a company owned vehicle, from
a car dealership are eligible for a six-month term parking permit for $100 that
may be renewed twice per year. Must have government issued driver's license or
I.D. with a Stone Park address. Vehicle must not have any company logo or
advertisement.
   (D)   Parking along the east side of 44th Avenue from Division Street to
Hirsch Street is limited to vehicles that display residential parking permits
issued by the village.
   (E)   No vehicle shall be permitted to park on the 1500 blocks of 39th
Avenue and 40th Avenue between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless a
village vehicle sticker is properly displayed in the windshield of the vehicle.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 9-18-1995; Ord. 02-19, passed 5-14-2002; Ord. 03-24, passed
9-9-2003; Ord. 04-03, passed 2-10-2004; Ord. 11-20, passed 7-12-2011; Ord. 19-
01, passed 2-26-2019; Ord. 21-09, passed 4-13-2021; Ord. 21-17, passed 8-10-
2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 PARKING DURING STREET CLEANING.
   To facilitate the cleaning of streets and public thoroughfares within the
village, it shall be unlawful, where parking is not otherwise prohibited, for
any person to stop, stand, park or leave unattended a motor vehicle on any
street or public thoroughfare within the village, between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 3:00 p.m. during the course of the year for the purposes of permitting
the village or its agents to clean any of its streets designated by appropriate
signs.
(Ord. 02-02, passed 1-22-2002)
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Village President finds that falling snow, sleet or freezing
rain will create a condition which makes it necessary that the parking of motor
vehicles on snow emergency routes be prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on
the basis of a firm forecast of snow, sleet or freezing rain that the weather
conditions so forecasted may create a condition making it necessary that the
parking be prohibited, he or she is authorized to announce the prohibition, to
become effective at a time specified by him or her. After the effective time of
the prohibition, no person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to
remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet or
freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Village
President has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency
routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow
emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall. The
prohibition of parking announced by the Village President under the authority
of this section shall remain in effect until he or she announces the
termination of the snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the
prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.25) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Village President shall find that some or all of the conditions
which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition no longer exist, he or she is
authorized to declare the termination of the emergency, in part or in whole,
effective immediately on announcement. If the announcement is made other than
between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.26)
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Village
President. On the street or highway designated as a snow emergency route,
special signs shall be posted to this effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.27)
VIOLATIONS
§ 72.50 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of §
72.16 or any other applicable section of this traffic code or ordinance of the
village, the officer is authorized to move the vehicle, or require the driver
or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off
the roadway.
   (B)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to a
place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing upon any
highway, bridge, causeway or in a tunnel, or in a position or under
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
   (C)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to
the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a highway
when:
      (1)   Report has been made that the vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner; or
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of the vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal; or
      (3)   When the person driving or in control of the vehicle is arrested
for an alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the
person arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1302) (Prior Code, § 72.40)
§ 72.51 DUTY OF LESSOR OF VEHICLE ON NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases the vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this chapter or a parking regulation involving the vehicle, shall, upon
request, provide the police officers as have authority of the offense, and the
court having jurisdiction thereof, with a written statement of the name and
address of the lessee at the time of the offense and the identifying number
upon the registration plates or digital registration plates and registration
sticker or stickers or digital registration sticker or stickers of the vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1305) (Prior Code, § 72.41)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be fined as set forth in §
70.99(A)(2).
   (B)   Whoever violates §
72.17 shall be fined $50 in addition to any costs or charges connected with the
removal or storage of the motor vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-1301.3(c) and (d)) (Prior Code, § 72.99)
   (C)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon any of the streets described in §
72.20 without having the proper permit. If a person violates the provisions of
§
72.20, that person shall be subject to a fine and/or immediate removal of his
or her vehicle.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 9-18-1995)
CHAPTER 73: MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES AND SCOOTERS
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.02   Riding on bicycles
   
73.03   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.04   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.05   Carrying articles
   
73.06   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
   
73.07   Lamps on motorized pedalcycles
   
73.08   Riding on motorized pedalcycles
Motorcycles
   
73.20   Riding on motorcycles
   
73.21   Special equipment for persons riding motorcycles
   
73.22   Required equipment on motorcycles
   
73.23   Operating motorcycle on one wheel
Motor Scooters, Motorized Scooters
   
73.35   Traffic laws apply; definitions
   
73.36   Use prohibited and regulated
   
73.37   Use prohibited on village sidewalks and other public ways
 
   
73.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a highway shall be granted all of the
rights, including, but not limited to, rights under ILCS Ch. 625, Act. 5, Art.
IX, and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this traffic
code, and those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature can have
no application.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1502) (Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped; except that, an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his or her person in a backpack or sling.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1503) (Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1504) (Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a roadway
at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall ride as close as practicable to the right-hand
curb or edge of the roadway, except under the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle, motorized pedalcycle
or vehicle proceeding in the same direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway; or
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, bicycles,
motorized pedalcycles, pedestrians, animals, surface hazards or substandard
width lanes that make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge.
For purposes of this division (A)(3), a SUBSTANDARD WIDTH LANE means a lane
that is too narrow for a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle and a vehicle to
travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a one-way
highway with two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand
curb or edge of the roadway as practicable.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505)
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles or motorized pedalcycles upon a roadway shall
not ride more than two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for their exclusive use. Persons riding two abreast shall not impede the normal
and reasonable movement of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a
single lane subject to the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505.1)
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the use of both hands in the control and operation of the
bicycle. A person operating a bicycle shall keep at least one hand on the
handlebars at all times.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1506) (Prior Code, § 73.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the Department which shall be visible from all distances from 100 feet to
600 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps
on a motor vehicle except that a lamp emitting a steady or flashing red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to or
instead of the red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle, any siren.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold the bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector conforming to specifications prescribed
by the State Department of Transportation, on each pedal, visible from the
front and rear of the bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. The reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet, and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle. The requirements of this
division (E) may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least three-
sixteenths inch wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate as clearly as
possible the continuous circular shape and size of the tires or rims of the
bicycle, and which reflective materials may be of the same color on both the
front and rear tire or rim. The reflectors shall conform to specifications
prescribed by the State Department of Transportation.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507) (Prior Code, § 73.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 LAMPS ON MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLES.
   Every motorized pedalcycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with
a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of
at least 500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
approved by the State Department of Transportation which shall be visible from
all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when in front of lawful,
low-powered beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507.1) (Prior Code, § 73.07) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 RIDING ON MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLES.
   (A)   The operator of a motorized pedalcycle shall ride only astride the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and shall not permit two persons
to ride thereon at the same time, unless the motorized pedalcycle is designed
to carry two persons. Any motorized pedalcycle designed for two persons must be
equipped with a passenger seat and footrests for use of a passenger.
   (B)   Neither the operator, nor any passenger, on a motorized pedalcycle
shall be required to wear any special goggles, shield, helmet or glasses.
   (C)   The provisions of §§
73.01 through
73.07 shall be applicable to the operation of motorized pedalcycles, except for
those provisions which, by their nature, can have no application to motorized
pedalcycles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.1) (Prior Code, § 73.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
MOTORCYCLES
§ 73.20 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and the operator shall not carry any other
person, nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless the motorcycle
is designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the
operator.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.
   (C)   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebar grips higher
than the height of the head of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator.
   (D)   The operator of any motorcycle shall keep at least one hand on a
handlebar grip at all times the motorcycle is in motion.
   (E)   The operator of a motorcycle may not transport a passenger unless the
passenger is capable of resting a foot on the footrest while the motorcycle is
in motion.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403) (Prior Code, § 73.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.21 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR PERSONS RIDING MOTORCYCLES.
   The operator and every passenger of a motorcycle shall be protected by
glasses, goggles or a transparent shield. This equipment shall meet the
requirements based upon those set forth in Vehicle Equipment Safety Commission
Regulation VESC-8, “Minimum Requirements for Motorcyclists’ Eye Protection”.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1404) (Prior Code, § 73.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.22 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON MOTORCYCLES.
   Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or enclosed
cab, shall be equipped with footrests for the passenger.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1405) (Prior Code, § 73.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.23 OPERATING MOTORCYCLE ON ONE WHEEL.
   Any person who operates a motorcycle on one wheel is guilty of reckless
driving, as defined in §
76.06.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.2) (Prior Code, § 73.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
MOTOR SCOOTERS, MOTORIZED SCOOTERS
§ 73.35 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOTOR SCOOTER. A self-balancing two tandem-wheeled motor-driven device
operated by one person in a standing position, which device has less than 150
cubic centimeter piston displacement.
      MOTORIZED SCOOTER. A self-balancing two tandem-wheeled vehicle powered by
a gas or electric engine, with or without a seat, which can transport one
person, and normally can be collapsed or folded for carrying or storage. The
vehicle frequently, but not always, does not have a 17-digit vehicle
identification number (“VIN”) or manufacturer’s certificate or statement of
origin (“MCO” or “MSO”).
   (B)   The traffic laws of the state, as set forth in the Illinois Vehicle
Code and implemented by the Secretary of Illinois State and enforced by state
and local law enforcement agencies, shall be deemed to apply to persons driving
motorized scooters, if the scooters are titled and registered with the
Secretary of Illinois State and thus permitted to be driven on streets, roads
and highways.
(Ord. 03-25, passed 9-23-2003)
§ 73.36 USE PROHIBITED AND REGULATED.
   (A)   No motor scooter shall be driven upon any streets, roads or highways
within the village’s corporate limits.
   (B)   No motorized scooter shall be driven upon any streets, roads or
highways within the village’s corporate limits unless the vehicles are titled
and registered with the Secretary of Illinois State, the drivers are licensed
and the vehicles and owners or drivers are in compliance with the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
   (C)   To the extent that the state permits the operation of motorized
scooters upon state streets, roads and highways, then consistent with state
regulation, the village shall require of any owner or driver of the vehicle a
valid state driver’s license and documented evidence of title for and state
registration of the vehicle, and the owner or driver shall comply with all
applicable rules of the road promulgated by the state and the village. Failure
of the owner or driver to provide the information to any village police officer
shall subject the owner or driver of the vehicle to a citation for violation of
the village code as provided in §
73.99, and of applicable provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (D)   In the event that state statute or the Secretary of Illinois State
prohibits the operation of motorized scooters or motor scooters on streets,
roads and highways, the village’s police officers may issue citations for any
violations as permitted by law.
(Ord. 03-25, passed 9-23-2003)
§ 73.37 USE PROHIBITED ON VILLAGE SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC WAYS.
   No motor scooter or motorized scooter shall be driven upon or across any
sidewalk or other public way within the village’s corporate limits, and the
fact of state registration of the vehicles shall not entitle the owner or
driver of any scooter to an exemption from the prohibition. Failure of the
owner or driver of the motor scooter or motorized scooter to comply with this
prohibition shall subject the person(s) to a citation for violation of the
village code as provided in §
73.99.
(Ord. 03-25, passed 9-23-2003)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of §§
73.35 through
73.37 shall be subject to prosecution and a fine of no more than $750 for each
and every violation.
(Ord. 03-25, passed 9-23-2003)
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrian obedience to traffic-control devices and traffic regulations
   
74.02   Pedestrian right-of-way at crosswalks
   
74.03   Crossing at other than crosswalks
   
74.04   Drivers to avoid colliding with pedestrians
   
74.05   Blind, hearing impaired or physically handicapped pedestrian right-of-
way
   
74.06   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalks
   
74.07   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
74.08   Pedestrians walking on highways
   
74.09   Right-of-way on sidewalks
   
74.10   Pedestrians yield to authorized emergency vehicles
   
74.11   Pedestrians under influence of alcohol or drugs
   
74.12   Bridge and railroad signals
   
74.13   Motorized wheelchairs
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to him or her, unless otherwise directed
by a police officer.
   (B)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control signals
provided in §§
70.36 and
70.37 of this traffic code; but at all other places, pedestrians shall be
accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this
chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1001) (Prior Code, § 74.01)
§ 74.02 PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping
if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety,
and walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) above shall not apply under the condition stated in §
74.03(B).
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield right-of-way to pedestrians as set forth in §
71.062.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1002) (Prior Code, § 74.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.03 CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk, or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place, except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to the crossing movements.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003) (Prior Code, § 74.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 DRIVERS TO AVOID COLLIDING WITH PEDESTRIANS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian, or any person
operating a bicycle or other device propelled by human power and shall give
warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall exercise proper
precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated or
intoxicated person.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003.1) (Prior Code, § 74.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 BLIND, HEARING-IMPAIRED OR PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-
WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any blind, hearing-
impaired or physically handicapped pedestrian carrying a clearly visible white
cane or accompanied by a support or guide dog.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004) (Prior Code, § 74.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005) (Prior Code, § 74.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.07 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle except within a municipality
when expressly permitted by municipal ordinance. The village shall determine by
ordinance where and when solicitations may take place based on the safety of
the solicitors and the safety of motorists. The decision shall also take into
account the orderly flow of traffic and may not allow interference with the
operation of official traffic control devices. Any person engaged in the act of
solicitation shall be 16 years of age or more and shall be wearing a high-
visibility vest. The soliciting agency shall be:
      (1)   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization
as provided by the Solicitation for Charity Act, being ILCS Ch. 225, Act 460;
      (2)   Engaged in a statewide fundraising activity; and
      (3)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
   (D)   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a highway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a highway.
   (E)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1006) (Prior Code, § 74.07) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.08 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of a roadway and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on the
left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1007) (Prior Code, § 74.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.09 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrians on a
sidewalk.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1008) (Prior Code, § 74.09) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.10 PEDESTRIANS YIELD TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
an audible signal and visual signals meeting the requirements of ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 12-601, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the
authorized emergency vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1009) (Prior Code, § 74.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.11 PEDESTRIANS UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree
which renders himself or herself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway,
except on a sidewalk.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1010) (Prior Code, § 74.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.12 BRIDGE AND RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1011) (Prior Code, § 74.12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.13 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair upon a sidewalk or roadway
shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004.1) (Prior Code, § 74.13)
CHAPTER 75: EQUIPMENT; LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
75.01   Scope and effect of equipment requirements
Loads
   
75.15   Scope and effect of size, weight and load regulations
   
75.16   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
75.17   Protruding members of vehicles
   
75.18   Spilling loads prohibited
   
75.19   Pushing of disabled vehicles
EQUIPMENT
§ 75.01 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in an unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with the lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq., or which is
equipped in any manner in violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq.,
or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq.
   (B)   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq., with respect
to equipment on vehicles shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road
machinery, road rollers or farm tractors, or to farm-wagon type trailers having
a fertilizer spreader attachment permanently mounted thereon, having a gross
weight of not to exceed 36,000 pounds and used only for the transportation of
bulk fertilizer, or to farm-wagon type tank trailers of not to exceed 2,000
gallons’ capacity, used during the liquid fertilizer season as field-storage
“nurse tanks”, supplying the fertilizer to a field applicator and highways only
for bringing the fertilizer to a field applicator from a local source of supply
to the farm or field or from one farm or field to another.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101) (Prior Code, § 75.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
LOADS
§ 75.15 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move on, upon or across, or
for the owner to cause to knowingly permit to be driven or moved on, upon or
across any highway any vehicle or vehicles of a size and weight exceeding the
limitations stated in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-101 et seq., or otherwise in
violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-101 et seq.
   (B)   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-101 et seq., governing
size, weight and load do not apply to equipment for snow and ice removal
operations owned or operated by the village, or to implements of husbandry
temporarily operated or towed in a combination upon a highway; provided, the
combination does not consist of more than three vehicles or, in the case of
hauling fresh, perishable fruits or vegetables from farm to the point of first
processing, not more than three wagons being towed by an implement of
husbandry, or to a vehicle operated under the terms of a special permit. Except
for weight limits on Class I highways under ILCS 625, Act 5, § 15-101, the
provisions of this section governing size, weight, and load do not apply to
fire apparatus or emergency vehicles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-101)
   (C)   No person shall use the highways under the jurisdiction of the village
in violation of weight and location restrictions and commercial vehicle
restrictions set forth by the village.
(Prior Code, § 75.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of village to regulate loads, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1
§ 75.16 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street with any load
carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of
the vehicle, nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders
on the right side thereof.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-105) (Prior Code, § 75.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.17 PROTRUDING MEMBERS OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle with boom, arm, drill rig or other protruding component shall be
operated upon the highway unless the protruding component is fastened so as to
prevent shifting, bouncing or moving in any manner.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-106) (Prior Code, § 75.12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.18 SPILLING LOADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom; except that, sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway.
   (C)   The State Department of Transportation shall adopt those rules and
regulations it deems appropriate which require the securing of steel rolls and
other objects on flatbed trucks so as to prevent injury to users of highways
and damage to property. Any person who operates a flatbed truck on any highway
in violation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the State Department
of Transportation under this division (C) shall be punished as provided in §
70.99.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109) (Prior Code, § 75.13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.19 PUSHING OF DISABLED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful under any circumstances for any vehicle to push any other
vehicle on or along any highway outside an urban area in the village, except in
an extreme emergency, and then the vehicle shall not be pushed farther than is
reasonably necessary to remove it from the roadway or from the immediate hazard
that exists.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-114) (Prior Code, § 75.14) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
Section
   
76.01   Reckless driving
   
76.02   Drag racing
   
76.03   Accidents involving death or personal injuries
   
76.04   Duty to give information and render aid
   
76.05   Accident involving damage to vehicle
   
76.06   Duty upon damaging unattended vehicle or other property
   
76.07   (Reserved)
   
76.08   False reports
   
76.09   (Reserved)
   
76.10   Use of mobile telephones while operating a motor vehicle
   
76.11   Drifting
§ 76.01 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   No person shall drive any vehicle with a willful or wanton disregard for the
safety of persons or property.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-503(a)) (Prior Code, § 76.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.02 DRAG RACING.
   (A)   Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, engages or
participates in drag racing on any street, highway, or other public way within
the village, shall be subject to the penalties provided herein.
   (B)   DRAG RACING means the act of (i) two or more individuals competing or
racing on any street or highway in the village in a situation in which one of
the motor vehicles is beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a
competing driver, and the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver
from passing or overtaking, either by acceleration or maneuver; or (ii) one or
more individuals competing in a race against time on any street in the village.
(Prior Code, § 76.02) (Ord. 23-04, passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.03 ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
in personal injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop such
vehicle at the scene of such crash, or as close thereto as possible and shall
then forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain at the scene of the
crash until the requirements of §
76.04 have been fulfilled. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   Any person who has failed to stop or to comply with the requirements
of division (A) of this section shall, as soon as possible but in no case later
than one-half hour after such motor vehicle crash, or, if hospitalized and
incapacitated from reporting at any time during such period, as soon as
possible but in no case later than one-half hour after being discharged from
the hospital, report the place of the crash, the date, the approximate time,
the driver's name and address, the registration number of the vehicle driven,
and the names of all other occupants of such vehicle, at a police station or
sheriff's office near the place where such crash occurred. No report made as
required under this division shall be used, directly or indirectly, as a basis
for the prosecution of any violation of division (A) of this section.
   (B-1)   Any person arrested for violating this section is subject to
chemical testing of his or her blood, breath, other bodily substance, or urine
for the presence of alcohol, other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or
compounds, or any combination thereof, as provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
11-501.1, if the testing occurs within 12 hours of the time of the occurrence
of the crash that led to his or her arrest. The person's driving privileges are
subject to statutory summary suspension under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501.1
if he or she fails testing or statutory summary revocation under ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-501.1 if he or she refuses to undergo the testing. For purposes of
this section, PERSONAL INJURY shall mean any injury requiring immediate
professional treatment in a medical facility or doctor's office.
   (C)   The Secretary of State shall revoke the driving privilege of any
person convicted of a violation of this section.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-401) (Prior Code, § 76.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.04 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or
attended by any person shall give the driver's name, address, registration
number and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating and shall upon request
and if available exhibit such driver's license to the person struck or the
driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with and shall
render to any person injured in such crash reasonable assistance, including the
carrying or the making of arrangements for the carrying of such person to a
physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or surgical treatment, if it is
apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by
the injured person.
   (B)   If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this
section is in condition to receive and understand such information and no
police officer is present, such driver after rendering reasonable assistance
shall forthwith report such motor vehicle crash at the nearest office of a duly
authorized police authority, disclosing the information required by this
section.
   (C)   Any person failing to comply with this section shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-403) (Prior Code, § 76.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.05 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall
immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such motor vehicle crash or as
close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to and in every event
shall remain at the scene of such motor vehicle crash until the requirements of
§
76.04 have been fulfilled. A driver does not violate this section if the driver
moves the vehicle as soon as possible off the highway to the nearest safe
location on an exit ramp shoulder, a frontage road, the nearest suitable cross
street, or other suitable location that does not obstruct traffic and remains
at that location until the driver has fulfilled the requirements of §
76.04. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. If a damaged vehicle is obstructing traffic lanes, the driver of the
vehicle must make every reasonable effort to move the vehicle or have it moved
so as not to block the traffic lanes. Any person failing to comply with this
section shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a violation of this section, the court shall make a
finding as to whether the damage to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, and in
such case a statement of this finding shall be reported to the Secretary of
State with the report of conviction as required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-
204. Upon receipt of such report of conviction and statement of finding that
the damage to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, the Secretary of State shall
suspend the driver's license or any nonresident's driving privilege.
   (C)   If any peace officer or highway authority official finds (i) a vehicle
standing upon a highway or toll highway in violation of a prohibition,
limitation, or restriction on stopping, standing, or parking imposed under this
chapter or (ii) a disabled vehicle that obstructs the roadway of a highway or
toll highway, the peace officer or highway authority official is authorized to
move the vehicle or to require the operator of the vehicle to move the vehicle
to the shoulder of the road, to a position where parking is permitted, or to
public parking or storage premises. The removal may be performed by, or under
the direction of, the peace officer or highway authority official or may be
contracted for by local authorities. After the vehicle has been removed, the
peace officer or highway authority official shall follow appropriate
procedures, as provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203.
   (D)   A towing service, its officers, and its employees are not liable for
loss of or damages to any real or personal property that occurs as the result
of the removal or towing of any vehicle under division (C) of this section, as
provided in subsection (b) of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-402) (Prior Code, § 76.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.06 DUTY UPON DAMAGING UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR OTHER PROPERTY.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in a
motor vehicle crash with any vehicle which is unattended, or other property,
resulting in any damage to such other vehicle or property shall immediately
stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of
such vehicle or other property of the driver's name, address, registration
number and owner of the vehicle the driver was operating or shall attach
securely in a conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other property struck a
written notice giving the driver's name, address, registration number and owner
of the vehicle the driver was driving and shall without unnecessary delay
notify the Police Department and shall make a written report of such crash when
and as required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-406. Every such stop shall be made
without obstructing traffic more than is necessary. If a damaged vehicle is
obstructing traffic lanes, the driver of the vehicle must make every reasonable
effort to move the vehicle or have it moved so as not to block the traffic
lanes.
   (B)   Any person failing to comply with this section shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (C)   If any peace officer or highway authority official finds (i) a vehicle
standing upon a highway or toll highway in violation of a prohibition,
limitation, or restriction on stopping, standing, or parking imposed under this
chapter or (ii) a disabled vehicle that obstructs the roadway of a highway or
toll highway, the peace officer or highway authority official is authorized to
move the vehicle or to require the operator of the vehicle to move the vehicle
to the shoulder of the road, to a position where parking is permitted, or to
public parking or storage premises. The removal may be performed by, or under
the direction of, the peace officer or highway authority official or may be
contracted for by local authorities. After the vehicle has been removed, the
peace officer or highway authority official shall follow appropriate
procedures, as provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203.
   (D)   A towing service, its officers, and its employees are not liable for
loss of or damages to any real or personal property that occurs as the result
of the removal or towing of any vehicle under division (C) of this section, as
provided in subsection (b) of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-404) (Prior Code, § 76.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
Editor’s note:
   ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-406, referred to in division (A) of this section,
was repealed by P.A. 102-560, effective August 20, 2021.
§ 76.07 (RESERVED)
§ 76.08 FALSE REPORTS.
   Any person who provides information in an oral or written report required by
this chapter with knowledge or reason to believe that such information is false
shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-409) (Prior Code, § 76.08)
§ 76.09 (RESERVED)
§ 76.10 USE OF MOBILE TELEPHONES WHILE OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms shall
apply:
      HANDS FREE DEVICE. An external device that connects to a mobile telephone
that allows the user to engage in a telephone call without touching the user’s
mobile telephone.
      MOBILE TELEPHONE. A cellular, analog, wireless or digital telephone or
other device capable of sending or receiving telephone messages without an
access line for service.
      ONBOARD COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A communications system or device that is
hardwired into the motor vehicle.
      USE. Talking or listening to another person, text messaging, sending,
reading or listening to an electronic message or browsing the internet.
   (B)    Prohibited. Except as otherwise provided in division (C) of this
section, no person shall operate a motor vehicle while using a mobile
telephone.
   (C)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any person using a mobile telephone or onboard communications
device for nonpersonal use in the course of ordinary business in their
employment with a city, state or federal agency or authority;
      (2)   Any person using a hands free device or voice communication,
provided that such person does not touch the mobile telephone connected to such
hands free device while operating or using the vehicle;
      (3)   Any person using a mobile telephone to call 911 or other emergency
telephone numbers to contact public safety forces; or
      (4)   Any person using a mobile telephone while maintaining a motor
vehicle in a stationary and parked position.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person who violates division (B) of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $100, provided however, that if a violation
occurs at the time of a traffic accident, the driver shall be subject to an
additional fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 17-25, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 76.11 DRIFTING.
   (A)   Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, engages or
participates in the act of drifting on any street, highway, or other public way
within the village, shall be subject to the penalties provided herein.
   (B)   DRIFTING means a driving technique in which the driver of a motor
vehicle, in the absence of an emergency, either: (a) causes the vehicle to
spin, skid, slide, turn abruptly or sway upon acceleration or braking; or (b)
uses or controls the vehicle's throttle, brakes, clutch, gear shifting,
steering input or other driving mechanisms, in any combination, to keep the
vehicle in a state of oversteer while maneuvering the vehicle from turn to
turn, or in circles, or in a figure eight, in a manner such that: (i) the rear
slip angle of the wheels is greater than the front slip angle, and the front
wheels are pointing in the opposite direction to the turn (e.g. the vehicle is
turning left, wheels are pointed right); or (ii) the vehicle slides sideways
through the turn(s); or (iii) the amount of countersteer (or opposite lock)
coupled with the simultaneous modulation of the vehicle's throttle and brakes
shifts the weight balance of the vehicle back and forth through the turn(s); or
(iv) any or all of the vehicle's tires lose traction or grip on the road; or
(v) an audible squeak or squeal sound coming from the vehicle's wheel area
occurs when the vehicle is in motion or when the brakes are applied.
(Ord. 23-04, passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   HEALTH; SAFETY; SANITATION
      
94.   NOISE CONTROL
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; TREES AND SHRUBS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Nuisance declared
   
90.03   Removal from public property
   
90.04   Removal from private property
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK YARD or SALVAGE YARD. A business that has been issued a permit by the
Village Board of Trustees.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is self-propelled.
   MOTORIZED HOME. A portable dwelling designed and constructed as an integral
part of a self-propelled vehicle.
   PICK-UP COACH. A structure designed primarily to be mounted on a pickup
truck or truck chassis and with sufficient equipment to render it suitable for
uses as temporary dwelling for travel/recreational and vacation uses.
   TRAVEL TRAILERS. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, vacation and
recreational uses, permanently identified “travel trailer” by the manufacturer
of the trailer and, when factory equipped for the road; it shall have a body
width not exceeding eight feet and a body length not exceeding 15 feet.
   VEHICLE. Every device upon or by which a person or any property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except railway trains.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 16-904A, passed 6-27-1966; Ord. 97-19, passed 4-20-
1998)
§ 90.02 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance to store or allow to remain in the
open upon any public or private property within the corporate limits of the
village for a period of two days any disassembled, inoperable or unlicensed
motor vehicle or any part thereof, unless:
      (1)   In connection with a permitted and licensed junk yard and/or
salvage yard or in connection with automotive sales and/or repair business; and
      (2)   The business and place of storage are located in an area which is
in full compliance with the Zoning Ordinance of the village.
      (3)   The inoperable vehicle parked on any street, alley or public area
is parked for emergency service that is required to either start the vehicle or
change the tire/tires of the vehicle.
   (B)   An owner of real estate may park or store any camping and recreational
equipment, including motor boats, sail boats and all other equipment converted
for recreational purposes on private residential property. The parking of the
aforementioned recreational equipment shall be considered a nuisance if the
parking violates any one of the following conditions:
      (1)   The aforementioned recreational equipment is not owned or leased by
the owner of the real estate;
      (2)   At all times the trailer, vehicle and the recreational equipment
shall be properly licensed and the license shall be properly displayed;
      (3)   At no time shall the parked or stored camping and recreational
equipment be occupied or used for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes;
and/or
      (4)   If the camping and recreational equipment is parked or stored
outside of a garage, it shall be parked or stored to the rear of the lot.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) above, camping and
recreational equipment may be parked anywhere on the premises for loading and
unloading purposes.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) (Ord. 16-904A, passed 6-27-1966; Ord. 97-19, passed 4-20-
1998; Ord. 23-11, passed 6-27-2023)
§ 90.03 REMOVAL FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Whenever the Director of Public Safety, or any officer working or acting
under the Director’s direction, finds a vehicle or motor vehicle or any part
thereof placed or stored in the open upon public property, the Director of
Public Safety, or officer acting under the Director’s direction, shall cause
the vehicle or motor vehicle to be removed and stored at a location he or she
designates. If the owner of the motor vehicle, or any part thereof, fails to
claim it and pay a reasonable fee for handling and storage within 30 days from
the date of removal, the Director of Public Safety may dispose of it.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 16-904A, passed 6-27-1966; Ord. 97-19, passed 4-20-
1998)
§ 90.04 REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Whenever the Director of Public Safety, or any officer working under the
Director’s direction, finds any such vehicle, motor vehicle or part thereof
placed or stored in the open upon private property, the Director, or officer
working under the Director, shall notify the owner of the real estate upon
which the vehicle, motor vehicle or part thereof is placed or stored, and/or
the resident located thereon, of the village’s intention to remove it
immediately. If the item(s) are not removed within five days from the date of
notice, the Director of Public Safety shall cause it to be removed to a place
he or she designates. The cost of removal shall be charged to the real estate
from which the item is removed; the charge shall be entered by the village as a
lien on the real estate from which the same was removed and recorded with the
Recorder of Deeds of the county.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) (Ord. 16-904A, passed 6-27-1966; Ord. 97-19, passed 4-20-
1998)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined pursuant to the following table:
   (A)   First offense: $100.
   (B)   Second offense: $250.
   (C)   Third offense: $500.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 16-904A, passed 6-27-1966; Ord. 97-19, passed 4-20-
1998; Ord. 23-13, passed 7-11-2023)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Cruelty
   
91.02   Dangerous animals; vicious dogs
   
91.03   Noise
   
91.04   Wild animals; bees; poultry; maximum number allowed
   
91.05   Domesticated animals; maximum number allowed
   
91.06   Stray and at-large animals
   
91.07   Diseased animals
   
91.08   Waste
   
91.09   Housing
   
91.10   Unattended animals
Dogs and Cats
   
91.25   Licenses required; fee
   
91.26   Tags required
   
91.27   Rabies inoculation
   
91.28   Muzzles or leashes
   
91.29   Defecating on public or private property
   
91.30   Impoundment
   
91.31   Redemption of impounded dogs or cats
   
91.32   Destruction of unredeemed and vicious dogs and cats
   
91.33   Kennels
   
91.34   Additional regulations for cats
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Noise Control, see
Ch. 94
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 95
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 CRUELTY.
   (A)   No person shall treat any animal in the village in any cruel way.
   (B)   Any person who inhumanely beats, underfeeds, abandons or allows an
animal to suffer from exposure to the elements of weather shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 DANGEROUS ANIMALS; VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous animal or any
vicious animal of any kind to run at large within the village; exhibitions or
parades of animals which are ferae naturae in the judgement of the law may be
conducted only upon securing a permit from the Village Clerk.
      (2)   Members of the Police Department or any other person in the village
are authorized to kill any dangerous animal of any kind when it is necessary
for the protection of any person or property.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog which when either unmuzzled,
unleashed or unattended by its owner, or a member of its owner’s family, in a
vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of
attack upon streets, sidewalks or any public grounds or places.
         ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height,
forming or causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young
children, and suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other
measures which may be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a
vicious dog within the ENCLOSURE. The ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed and
locked and designed with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be designed to
prevent the animal from escaping from the ENCLOSURE.
         FOUND TO BE VICIOUS DOG.
            1.   A law enforcement officer has conducted an investigation and
made a finding in writing that the dog is a vicious dog, as defined herein;
and, based on that finding, the Chief of Police has declared in writing that
the dog is a vicious dog; or
            2.   The Circuit Court has found the dog to be a vicious dog, as
defined herein, and has entered an order based on that finding.
         IMPOUNDED. Taken into the custody of the village.
         VICIOUS DOG.
            1.   An individual dog:
               a.   When unprovoked, inflicts bites or attacks a human being or
other animal either on public or private property;
               b.   With a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of
human beings or domestic animals;
               c.   Has as a trait or characteristic and a generally known
reputation for viciousness, dangerousness or unprovoked attacks upon human
beings or other animals, unless handled in a particular manner or with special
equipment;
               d.   Which attacks a human being or domestic animal without
provocation; and/or
               e.   Which has been found to be a “dangerous dog” upon three
separate occasions.
            2.   No dog shall be deemed VICIOUS if it bites, attacks or menaces
a trespasser on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has
tormented or abused it or is a professionally trained dog for law enforcement
or guard duties. VICIOUS DOGS shall not be classified in a manner that is
specific as to breed.
            3.   If a dog is found to be a VICIOUS DOG, the dog shall be
subject to enclosure.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any
dog which has been found to be a vicious dog unless the dog is at all times
kept in an enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed out of
the enclosure are:
            1.   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain
veterinary care for the dog; or
            2.   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction;
provided that, the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having a
tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding three feet in length, and
shall be under the direct control and supervision of the owner or keeper of the
dog.
         (b)   Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is
not confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the Police Department and
shall be turned over to a licensed veterinarian for destruction by lethal
injection. If the owner of the dog has not appealed the impoundment order to
the Circuit Court in the county in which the animal was impounded within seven
working days, the dog may be humanely dispatched. A dog found to be a vicious
dog shall not be released to the owner until the Chief of Police approves the
enclosure, as defined in this division (B).
         (c)   No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away the
dog.
      (3)   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance
by permitting any dangerous dog or other animal to leave the premises of its
owner when not under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
         (b)   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for
the physically handicapped and sentry, guard or police-owned dogs are exempt
from this division (B); and the exemption shall apply where an attack or injury
to a person occurs while the dog is performing duties as expected. To qualify
for exemption under this division (B), each such dog shall be currently
inoculated against rabies in accordance with §
91.27 of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the owner of the exempted dog to
notify the Police Department of changes of address. In the case of a sentry or
guard dog, the owner shall keep the Chief of Police advised of the location
where the dog will be stationed.
         (c)   The Chief of Police shall provide the Police and Fire
Departments with a categorized list of the exempted dogs and shall promptly
notify the Departments of any address changes reported to him or her.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful, and is hereby declared a nuisance and a
danger to the public, for any person to own, possess, keep or harbor, or allow
to be kept, any dog of the breed, or mixed breed, of American Pit Bull Terrier,
Staffordshire Bull Terrier or American Staffordshire Terrier, commonly known as
a “pit bull”, within the corporate limits of the village.
      (2)   Subject to division (C)(3) below, any such dog may be impounded by
the Director of Public Safety or Police Chief, or the designees of the
officials, to be destroyed as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   (a)   Persons owning, possessing or keeping pit bulls on the
effective date of this division (C) shall have a period of three months from
the effective date to come into compliance with this division (C).
         (b)   Upon written presentation to the Police Chief of extenuating
circumstances preventing the removal of any pit bull within the initial three-
month period, an owner or keeper of the pit bull(s) may be granted an extension
of no more than an additional three months.
(Ord. passed 2-11-1980; Ord. 04-28, passed 9-14-2004; Ord. 05-13, passed 6-14-
2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the
peace by loud noises at any time of the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep any animal or bird shut or tied in any
yard, enclosure, stable, house or other place within the village which, by
barking, howling, crying, singing or causing frequent or long continued noise
shall disturb the comfort or repose of persons in the vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 WILD ANIMALS; BEES; POULTRY; MAXIMUM NUMBER ALLOWED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep within the village any animal
which is considered wild and/or non-domesticable, except small animals that
generally are accepted as pets; provided, the animal is housed within the
owner’s dwelling in a cage which prevents the animal from running at large.
   (B)   No person shall harbor or keep more than three in number of any
species of acceptable pets in the keeper’s dwelling, with the exception of fish
housed in an aquarium.
   (C)   Bees and poultry are not permitted to be harbored or kept within the
village.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to operate, maintain or establish any chicken
hatchery or establishment any place within the village.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 DOMESTICATED ANIMALS; MAXIMUM NUMBER ALLOWED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the only acceptable animals that are
lawful to be harbored or kept without being caged in the village are dogs and
cats.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep more than three dogs and/or
cats per habitable dwelling in any residential or commercial area in the
village.
   (C)   Any number of dogs and/or cats exceeding three in number harbored or
kept in one location must be housed in a kennel licensed by the village.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 STRAY AND AT-LARGE ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to permit any animal to stray or run at large in
the village.
   (B)   Any animal running at large in any area other than the keeper’s
property shall be impounded in the manner provided in §
91.30.
(Prior Code, § 91.06) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious disease shall be
permitted to be exposed in any area of the village whereby the health of humans
or other animals may be affected; nor shall the diseased animal be shipped or
removed from the premises of its keeper, except under the supervision of the
Health Officer or the Health Officer’s designate.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the Village Health Department to secure
the disposition of any diseased animal and the treatment of affected premises
as to prevent the communication and spread of contagion or infection, except in
cases where the State or County Animal Welfare Veterinarian is empowered to
act.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to permit any animal to defecate and/or urinate
in any area of the village other than the keeper’s property.
   (B)   The excrement from an animal shall be removed on a regular basis so as
not to cause an offensive odor, an unhealthy waste pile or an unpleasant site.
(Prior Code, § 91.08) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Defecating on public or private property, see §
91.29
§ 91.09 HOUSING.
   No person shall cause or allow any place, cage or shelter where any animal
is kept to become unclean or unwholesome.
(Prior Code, § 91.09) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 UNATTENDED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended on
any street without being securely fastened.
(Prior Code, § 91.10) Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 91.25 LICENSES REQUIRED; FEE.
   Every person who owns, keeps or harbors a dog or cat within the limits of
the village shall, during the month of January of each year or within ten days
of the date from which the dog is acquired, report this fact to the Village
Clerk, together with the name, breed, color and sex of every dog or cat so
owned, kept or harbored by the person and shall pay to the Clerk as a yearly
license fee, the sum of $0.00 for each dog or cat so owned, kept or harbored,
regardless of sex age color or breed.
(Prior Code, § 91.20) (Ord. 93-9, passed 4-18-1994; Ord. 04-08, passed 3-9-
2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 TAGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Upon the payment of the fee, the Village Clerk shall furnish the owner
or keeper of each dog or cat so licensed with a license tag marked for both
dogs and cats, which tags shall be numbered consecutively and shall be of a
different design or pattern each year.
   (B)   Every dog or cat so owned, kept or harbored within the limits of the
village shall be provided by its owner or keeper with a leather or chain collar
to which the license tag shall be securely fastened.
(Prior Code, § 91.21) (Ord. 93-9, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 RABIES INOCULATION.
   No license for any dog or cat shall be issued unless the owner thereof
presents with his or her application for a license a certificate from a duly
licensed registered veterinarian showing that the dog or cat for which the
license is sought has been inoculated within the past 12 months with a
prophylactic serum to prevent rabies.
(Prior Code, § 91.22) (Ord. 93-9, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28 MUZZLES OR LEASHES.
   (A)   Dogs. No owner of any dog within the limits of the village shall
permit any dog to leave the premises of the owner at any time unless the dog is
securely leashed or is muzzled in a manner as to fully prevent the dog from
biting a person or animal.
   (B)   Cats. No owner of any cat shall permit any cat to leave the premises
of the owner at any time unless the cat is securely leashed or is under the
control of a person physically able to control the cat.
   (C)   No dogs or cats will be allowed to be leashed or unleashed in any
yards or property at any given time in any unfenced or temporary fenced area.
The fence must be able to contain a dog or cat.
   (D)   A dog or cat can be impounded if three or more citations have been
issued. Owner may redeem the dog or cat after paid citations.
(Prior Code, § 91.23) (Ord. 93-9, passed 4-18-1994; Ord. 21-13, passed 6-8-
2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.29 DEFECATING ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall cause or permit any dog or cat owned by him or her to create
a nuisance by defecating or urinating upon any public street, sidewalk or other
place or upon any premises not owned to controlled by the person owning or
keeping the dog or cat. If the dog or cat does in fact defecate, the owner
shall be responsible for removing the defecation and properly disposing of it.
(Prior Code, § 91.24) (Ord. 93-9, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Waste, see §
91.08
§ 91.30 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Dogs. It is the duty of the Director of Public Safety, or any person
designated by him or her, to capture and impound, either at a licensed pound
within the village or at one in close proximity to the village, each dog found
at large off the premises of its owner and within the limits of the village,
which is without a muzzle, leash, collar or tag as required by this subchapter.
   (B)   Cats. It is the duty of the Director of Public Safety, or any person
designated by him or her, to capture and impound, either at a licensed pound
within the village or at one in close proximity to the village, each cat found
at large off the premises of its owner and within the limits of the village,
which is unleashed and not under the physical control of some person, and/or is
without collar and tag as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 91.25) (Ord. 93-9, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Dogs. The Director of Public Safety, or any person designated by him
or her, shall promptly notify the owner of any dog so impounded, if the same
can be ascertained, and the owner may redeem the dog; provided, the dog
exhibits no evidence of disease, within five days from the time of its capture
by providing proof of rabies inoculation and paying the license fee or fine as
proved herein, together with the sum of $5 per day for the day for the cost of
keeping the dog, plus the sum of $5 for each dog so redeemed as the cost of
capturing the dog.
   (B)   Cats. The Director of Public Safety, or any person designated by him
or her, shall promptly notify the owner of any cat so impounded, if the same
can be ascertained, and the owner may redeem the cat; provided, the cat
exhibits no evidence of disease, within five days from the time of its capture
by providing proof of rabies inoculation and paying the license fee or fine as
provided herein, together with the sum of $5 per day for the cost of keeping
the cat, plus the sum of $5 for each cat so redeemed as the cost of capturing
the cat.
(Prior Code, § 91.26) (Ord. 93-9, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 DESTRUCTION OF UNREDEEMED AND VICIOUS DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Dogs. It is the duty of the Director of Public Safety, or any person
designated by him or her, to destroy any dog unredeemed at the expiration of
five days from the time of capture, or to provide for its donation to a
licensed animal shelter facility, and it shall be lawful for the village police
to kill any vicious dog at large within the limits of the village which cannot
safely be taken up and impounded. Any destruction or donation of impounded dogs
shall be by humane means prescribed by the State Animal Control Act.
   (B)   Cats. It is the duty of the Director of Public Safety, or any person
designated by him or her, to destroy any cat unredeemed at the expiration of
five days from the time of capture, or to provide for its donation to a
licensed animal shelter facility and it shall be lawful for the village police
to kill any vicious cat at large within the limits of the village which cannot
safely be taken up and impounded. Any destruction or donation of impounded cats
shall be by humane means prescribed by the State Animal Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 91.27) (Ord. 93-9, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 KENNELS.
   (A)   The possession of three or more dogs by any person shall constitute
prima facie evidence of the maintenance of a dog kennel for the sale of dogs.
   (B)   All person operating a dog kennel within the limits of the village
shall pay an annual license fee as prescribed within the business license
ordinance, set out in §
112.15 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 91.28) (Ord. 93-9, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.34 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR CATS.
   (A)   Number of cats restricted.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a licensed kennel,
pet shop or shelter operator, to keep or harbor more than two cats over the age
of six months.
      (2)   The keeping of more than two cats over the age of six months is
declared to be a public nuisance and is declared to be detrimental to the
public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Cat bites. In the event that a cat bites a person, the Director of
Public Safety, or any person designated by him or her, shall immediately notify
the Animal Control Administrator, pursuant to the State Animal Control Act, and
the cat shall be impounded as provided therein.
(Prior Code, § 91.29) (Ord. 93-9, passed 4-18-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter for which no other penalty is set forth shall be fined not less than
$10, nor more than $500, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on the day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §§
91.03(B) or 91.04(D) shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $100, nor
more than $500, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
91.25 through
91.34 in relation to dogs and cats shall be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 for the first offense and not less than $25 for the second and subsequent
offenses.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. 75-16, passed 1-27-1976; Ord. passed 2-11-1980;
Ord. 93-9, passed 4-18-1994)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Adoption of International Fire Code
   
92.02   Participation in state training
Fire Inspector
   
92.15   Office established
   
92.16   Appointment; salary
   
92.17   Shifts
   
92.18   Duties
Administration and Enforcement
   
92.30   Director of Public Safety; duties
   
92.31   Modifications
   
92.32   Inspection of buildings; procedure
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   (A)   A certain document, one of which is on file in the office of the Clerk
of the village, being marked and designated as the International Fire Code in
its entirety, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the code of the village for regulating and governing the
safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from
the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices,
and from conditions hazardous to live or property in the occupancy of buildings
and premises in the village and providing for the issuance of permits for
hazardous uses or operations; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms of the International Fire Code, 2012 edition, published by
the International Code Council, on file in the office of the village are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if full set out in this section,
subject only to the revisions set forth in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1, insert: Village of Stone Park;
      (2)   Section 109.3, insert: Misdemeanor, $750.00, 30 days; and
      (3)   Section 111.4, insert: $25.00/$750.00.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 06-02, passed 1-10-2006)
§ 92.02 PARTICIPATION IN STATE TRAINING.
   (A)   The Village Fire Department hereby elects to participate in the
programs provided for in the State Fire Protection Training Act, being ILCS Ch.
50, Act 740.
   (B)   Before a person may begin regular, full-time employment as a
firefighter, every firefighter must be certified by the Office of the State
Fire Marshal as a Firefighter II, as having successfully completed an approved
training course as provided in the state act.
   (C)   The Firefighter II training must be completed by the trainee within
the trainee’s probationary period of 12 months.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 82-3, passed 10-11-1982) Penalty, see §
92.99
FIRE INSPECTOR
§ 92.15 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   The position of Fire Inspector is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 92.20) (Ord. 83-2, passed 6-13-1983)
§ 92.16 APPOINTMENT; SALARY.
   The Fire Inspector shall serve at the direction of the Director of Public
Safety and shall be allowed a salary per annum not to exceed $6,000.
(Prior Code, § 92.21) (Ord. 83-2, passed 6-13-1983)
§ 92.17 SHIFTS.
   The Fire Inspector shall work a minimum of two eight-hour days per week (a
total of 16 hours). The two days per week shall be designated by the Director
of Public Safety. Before the first day of each succeeding month, the Director
of Public Safety shall submit a schedule of the Fire Inspector’s working days
to the Village Clerk’s office. On those working days, the Fire Inspector shall
begin the work day at the Village Clerk’s office and shall notify the Clerk’s
office when that day’s tour of duty is over.
(Prior Code, § 92.22) (Ord. 83-2, passed 6-13-1983)
§ 92.18 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Fire Inspector shall be charged with the responsibility of
inspecting all business and multi-family units at least once annually to
determine whether fire prevention violations exist. The Inspector shall file
with the Village Clerk’s office a written report of the inspections.
   (B)   The Inspector also shall be charged with processing and completing
Fire Department reports as directed by the Director of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 92.23) (Ord. 83-2, passed 6-13-1983)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 92.30 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY; DUTIES.
   (A)   The 2012 NFPA Life Safety Code 101 shall be enforced by the Director
of Public Safety in the Fire Department of the village, which is hereby
established and which shall be operated under the supervision of the Director
of Public Safety.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety shall be appointed by the Village
President and Board of Trustees on the basis of examination to determine
qualifications.
   (C)   The Director of Public Safety may detail the members of the Department
as inspectors as shall, from time to time, be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 92.30)
§ 92.31 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Director of Public Safety shall have the power to modify any of the
provisions of the 2012 NFPA Life Safety Code 101, upon application in writing
by the owner, lessee or a duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code;
provided, the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured and
substantial justice done. The particulars of the modification, when granted or
allowed, and the decision of the Director of Public Safety shall be entered
upon the records of the Department; a signed copy shall be furnished to the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 92.31)
§ 92.32 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Director of Public Safety or Fire Inspectors, upon complaint of
any person or whenever they shall deem it necessary, shall inspect all
buildings and premises within their jurisdiction. Whenever they shall find any
buildings or other structures which, for want of repairs, lack of or
insufficient fire escapes, automatic or other fire alarm apparatus or fire
extinguishing equipment, or by reason of age or dilapidated conditions, or from
any other cause, is especially liable to fire, and which is so situated as to
endanger other property or the occupants thereof, they shall order the
dangerous conditions or materials to be removed or remedied and the order shall
forthwith be complied with by the owner or occupant of the premises or
building.
   (B)   If the order is made by any Fire Inspector, the owner or occupant may,
within 24 hours, appeal to the Director of Public Safety, who shall consider
the matter. If, in his or her opinion, the matter is of sufficient importance,
he or she shall notify the President and Board of Trustees, who shall take
action as is appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 92.32)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any persons who shall violate any of the provisions §
92.32 or fail to comply with any order made therein, or who shall build in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved or any certificate or permit issued hereunder or who shall fail to
comply with an order as affirmed or modified by the Board of Trustees or a
court of competent jurisdiction within the time fixed herein shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than $5, nor more than $500,
for each and every violation. The imposition of one penalty for any violation
shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; all persons shall be
required to correct or remedy the violations or defects within a reasonable
time and when not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions
are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. The application of the
penalty in this division (B) shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal
of the prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 92.99)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH; SAFETY; SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Sanitary regulations
   
93.02   Heat in apartments
   
93.03   False alarm fees
Smoking in Public Places, Parks
   
93.15   Background findings
   
93.16   Title
   
93.17   Definitions
   
93.18   Prohibition except as designated
   
93.19   Permitted designated smoking areas
   
93.20   Reasonable distance
   
93.21   Where smoking is not regulated
   
93.22   Declaration of establishment as “non-smoking”
   
93.23   Non-retaliation
   
93.24   Enforcement
   
93.25   Other applicable laws
   
93.26   Applicability
   
93.27   Effective date
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 SANITARY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Premises used for the sale or storage of food intended for human
consumption must be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. It should be
unlawful to permit any accumulation of refuse or waste of any kind to remain
therein for more than 24 hours, and it shall be unlawful to permit any decaying
matter or decaying animal or plant material to remain on the premises.
   (B)   Any and all individuals who may come into contact with food throughout
any given day shall be required to take a T.B. test and furnish the Village
Clerk’s office with a certificate of the test results. If an individual’s test
result is positive, that individual shall be prohibited from working in any
capacity that would require the afflicted individual to come in contact with
food.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 92-11, passed 4-19-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 HEAT IN APARTMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or person in charge of any premises
rented and/or leased lawfully for residential purposes to provide property
heat, which shall not be less than 68°F on every day, when needed, during the
period between September 15 and May 31 of each year.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to premises where there is
a central heating plant controlled by the owner or the person in charge and to
premises where a unit or apartment has its own thermostat and/or individual
heating plant.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 83-8, passed 1-9-1984) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 FALSE ALARM FEES.
   (A)   The provisions of the preamble of Ord. 95-12 are hereby adopted as
though fully set forth herein.
   (B)   (1)   After the designated Alarm Officer with the Village Police
Department has recorded three alarm occurrences within fiscal year May 1 to
April 30, a notice will be sent to the alarm owner or lessees, in writing by
first class mail, of the fact and that any additional false alarms will result
in service charges. Thereafter, in every 30-day period, an assessed fee of $50
for each false alarm transmitted by the system within the 12-month period
thereafter where the false alarm results in a response by the Police or Fire
Department.
      (2)   The Alarm Officer shall present evidence of the number of
violations and also provide to the Village Clerk the violator’s names,
addresses or location of violation along with the date and time of the
violation. The Village Clerk shall invoice out the owner or lessees of the
offending alarm system the schedule, penalties and fines imposed in accordance
set forth in division (B)(1) above and shall further apprise the owner or
lessee that he, she or it has 30 days from the mailing of the invoice to pay
the fines. If the owner or lessees of the system fails to pay the fee within 30
days of demand therefor, then the alarm shall be disconnected. Every owner or
lessee connecting an alarm system with the village shall, by virtue of the
connection, be bound by the fee provisions hereof and shall thereby consent to
disconnection for non-payment without recourse or liability of the village.
Also, failure of the licensee or owner of any offending alarm and/or alarms
user to pay the fines will be assessed these fines at the time of the renewal
of his, her or their business license which must be paid prior to receiving
his, her or their business license.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALARM SYSTEM. Any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical,
arranged to signal the occurrence of an illegal entry or other activity or
condition requiring urgent attention to which the Police and/or Fire Department
are expected to respond; however, this does not include audible alarms or fire
detectors affixed to automobiles or other motor vehicles, nor does it include
audible alarm signals which may be heard only within a building, such as smoke
or carbon monoxide detectors.
      FALSE ALARM. Activation of an alarm system through mechanical failure,
malfunction, improper installation or the negligence of the owner or lessee of
an alarm system or any of his or her employees or agents, but shall not include
alarms resulting from criminal activity, unusual weather conditions or
interruption of any telephone or electrical service or other unusual
occurrences outside the ability of the owner or lessee of the alarm system to
prevent.
   (D)   The village shall take every possible precaution to assure that alarm
signals are given appropriate attention and are acted on with dispatch.
Nevertheless, the village shall not be liable for any defects in operation of
any alarm system, for any failure or neglect of any person in connection with
the installation or operation of equipment, the transmission of signals or the
relay of the signals and messages. In the event that the village finds it
necessary to disconnect a defective device, the village shall incur no
liability by the action.
   (E)   The fees imposed by this section shall become effective as of the
first day of and shall be imposed without exception. Otherwise, this section
shall be in full force and effect from after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
(Ord. 95-12, passed 12-18-1995)
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES, PARKS
§ 93.15 BACKGROUND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Smoking creates serious hazards to the personal health and safety of
people near the smoking and serious threats of damage to property that may
result from the incendiary nature of smoking. It has been determined that
breathing ambient smoke is a health hazard to both smokers and non-smokers.
Smoking produces substances considered hazardous to health including carbon
monoxide, hydrogen cyanide, nitrous oxide and formaldehyde. Secondhand smoke
(68% of the total smoke produced by a cigarette) affects the health of the
bystander, interferes with respiratory tract defenses and often causes non-
smokers to have allergic or irritating reactions. Secondhand smoke is a known
cause of lung cancer.
   (B)   Because smoking has potentially harmful effects, material and direct,
on the public health, safety, welfare and comfort, and on property of residents
of the village, it is necessary and desirable to establish regulations that
prohibit smoking in enclosed public places and in enclosed places of
employment.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 1-23-2007)
§ 93.16 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Village of Stone Park Smoke Free Air
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 1-23-2007)
§ 93.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARCADE. A place of amusement, which contains four or more automatic
amusement devices and is not licensed to serve alcoholic liquor.
   BAR/TAVERN. An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption by guests and patrons on the premises and does not
have an on-site kitchen to prepare food. Food service is limited to providing
snack items or commercially prepared or wrapped foods that require no
preparation.
   BUSINESS. Any sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation,
limited liability company or other business entity formed for profit-making
purposes, including, without limitation, retail establishments where goods or
services are sold as well as professional corporations and other entities where
legal, medical, dental, engineering, architectural or other professional
services are delivered.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit and a person who volunteers his or
her services for a non-profit entity.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including, without limitation, a municipal corporation, trust or non-profit
entity that employs the services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed or
semi-enclosed with:
      (1)   Solid walls or windows (exclusive of doorways), which extend from
the floor to the ceiling; or
      (2)   Solid walls with half wall partitions and no windows (exclusive of
doorways) without limitation to lobbies and corridors.
   ENCLOSED OR SEMI-ENCLOSED SPORTS ARENA OR RECREATIONAL AREA. Any sports
pavilion, stadium, gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool, roller
and ice rink, bowling alley and other similar places where members of the
general public assemble either to engage in physical exercise, or participate
in athletic competition or recreational activity, to witness sports, cultural,
recreational or other events.
   HEALTH-CARE FACILITY. Any office or institution providing medical care or
treatment of diseases, whether physical, mental or emotional, or other medical,
physiological or psychological conditions, including, without limitation,
hospitals, clinics, homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories, and
offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists
and all specialists within these professions. The definition shall include all
waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semi-private rooms and wards within
health care facilities.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any enclosed area under the control of a public or
private employer that employees frequent during the course of employment,
including without limitation work areas, employee lounges, restrooms,
conference rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways and vehicles. A
private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT unless it is used as a
childcare, adult day care, health care facility or home-based business of any
kind open to the public.
   PRIVATE CLUB OR LODGE.
      (1)   Any not-for-profit association that:
         (a)   Has been in active and continuous existence for at least three
years; and
         (b)   Has a membership roll of more than 50 bona fide members who pay
membership dues on an annual or other periodic basis.
      (2)   For purposes of this section “bona fide members” do not include
members who pay membership dues at the time of an amusement produced, presented
or conducted by the club or lodge or in conjunction with contracting for
production, presentation or conduct of an amusement by the club, as a condition
to entering the premises where the amusement is produced, presented or
conducted.
   PRIVATE FUNCTION. A gathering of persons for the purpose of deliberation,
education instruction, entertainment, amusement or dining where membership or
specific invitation is a prerequisite to entry and where the event is not
intended to be open to the public.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including, without limitation, banks, educational
facilities, government buildings, health care facilities, laundromats, museums,
public transportation facilities, reception areas, restaurants, bars/taverns,
retail food production and marketing establishments, retail service
establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, sports arenas, theaters and
waiting rooms. A private residence is not a PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used as a
childcare, adult day care, health care facility or home-based business of any
kind open to the public.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including, without limitation, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich shops and private and public school cafeterias that
gives or offers for sale, food to the public, guests or employees, as well as
kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the premises for
serving elsewhere. The term RESTAURANT shall include, if applicable, a
restaurant bar area.
   RESTAURANT BAR AREA. An area of a restaurant that is primarily devoted to
the serving of alcoholic liquor.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. Any retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental and where no one under 18 is permitted.
   SECONDHAND SMOKE or INVOLUNTARY SMOKING. A mixture of the smoke given off by
the burning ends of a cigarette, pipe, cigar or other tobacco products
(sidestream smoke) and the smoke emitted at the mouthpiece and exhaled from the
lungs of smokers (mainstream smoke).
   SERVICE LINE. Any indoor line at which one or more persons are waiting for
or receiving services of any kind, whether or not the service involves the
exchange of money.
   SHOPPING MALL. Any enclosed walkway or hall area that serves to connect
retail or professional establishments.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe or other lighted tobacco product in any manner or in any form.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 1-23-2007)
§ 93.18 PROHIBITION EXCEPT AS DESIGNATED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to smoke in any enclosed public places and places of
employment within the village, except the area or portion thereof designated
for smoking by the owner or other person in control of the public place and/or
place of employment, including, without limitation, the following places:
      (1)   Arcades;
      (2)   Aquariums, galleries, libraries and museums;
      (3)   Bars/taverns;
      (4)   Bingo facilities;
      (5)   Bowling alleys;
      (6)   Convention facilities;
      (7)   Facilities primarily used for exhibiting a motion picture, stage,
drama, lecture, musical recital or other similar performance;
      (8)   Health care facilities and adult day care facilities;
      (9)   Day care centers, nursery schools, elementary schools, high
schools, community colleges, technical training establishments, specialty
schools, colleges and universities;
      (10)   Lobbies, hallways and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums and enclosed common areas in trailer parks;
      (11)   Polling places;
      (12)   Public transportation under the authority of government agencies,
including, without limitation, buses, trains, taxicabs and limousines, and
ticket boarding and waiting areas of public transit stations;
      (13)   Restaurants, including if applicable, a restaurant bar area;
      (14)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways and other enclosed
common-use areas;
      (15)   Public elevators and all retail stores where merchandise is
displayed and offered for sale;
      (16)   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including
without limitation school buildings, under the control of an agency, board,
commission, committee or council or a political subdivision of the state, to
the extent the place is subject to the jurisdiction of the county;
      (17)   Service lines;
      (18)   Shopping malls;
      (19)   Sports arenas or recreational areas, including, without
limitation, enclosed places in outdoor areas;
      (20)   Grocery stores;
      (21)   Public meetings;
      (22)   Gymnasiums;
      (23)   Gaming facilities; and/or
      (24)   Public and private school buildings.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner or other person in control of an enclosed
public place and/or place of employment within the village to knowingly permit
smoking in that public place and/or place of employment unless the area or
portion thereof has been designated for smoking.
   (C)   It is unlawful for an owner or other person in control of an enclosed
public place and/or place of employment to fail to post signage or remove ash
trays, as provided in §
93.19 of this chapter.
   (D)   It is unlawful to smoke in all parks.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 1-23-2007; Ord. 11-23, passed 11-8-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 PERMITTED DESIGNATED SMOKING AREAS.
   (A)   The owner or other person in control of the enclosed public place or
place of employment within the village who has designated a portion thereof for
smoking must clearly display signage, in form and content approved by the
village, indicating the portion of the enclosed public place and/or place of
employment where smoking is permitted.
   (B)   The owner or other person having control of an area where smoking is
prohibited by this subchapter shall remove all ashtrays and other smoking
paraphernalia intended for use where smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   The designated smoking areas established herein must minimize the
intrusion of smoke into areas where smoking is not permitted by meeting the
following requirements.
      (1)   The designated smoking area must have an air purification device
and/or ventilation system installed to mitigate and/or eliminate the re-
circulation of the environmental smoke generated.
      (2)   The air purification device(s) and/or ventilation system(s) must be
maintained in proper working order.
      (3)   The number of smokers permitted in the designated smoking area
shall not exceed the capacity of the air purification device(s) and/or
ventilation system(s) to mitigate or eliminate environmental smoke.
   (D)   When a public place or place of employment is a single room or
enclosure, an owner or other person in control of the public place and/or place
of employment establishing such an area may satisfy the purpose or provisions
of this section by establishing a reasonable portion of the room or enclosure
as a smoking area.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 1-23-2007) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.20 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking is prohibited within 15 feet of any entrance to an enclosed area in
which smoking is prohibited.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 1-23-2007) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter;
provided, smoking is not limited in the areas under the State Clean Indoor Air
Act:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed childcare, adult
care facility, health care facility or a home-based business of any kind open
to the public;
   (B)   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are
designated as smoking rooms; provided, however, that, not more than 25% of the
rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated;
   (C)   Private and semi-private rooms in nursing homes and long-term care
facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers
and have requested in writing to be placed or to remain, as the case may be, in
a room where smoking is permitted; and
   (D)   Private clubs or lodges.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 1-23-2007)
§ 93.22 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS “NON-SMOKING”.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, an owner,
operator, manager or other person in control of an establishment, facility or
outdoor area not covered by §
93.19 of this chapter may declare that entire establishment, facility or
outdoor area as a non-smoking place.
   (B)   Smoking shall be prohibited in any place in which a sign conforming to
the requirements of this subchapter is posted.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 1-23-2007)
§ 93.23 NON-RETALIATION.
   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or, in any manner,
retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment or customer because
that employee, applicant or customer exercises any rights afforded by this
subchapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 1-23-2007) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Village Police Department and the certified local public health
department with jurisdiction shall be authorized to enforce this subchapter.
The certified local public health department is the County Department of Public
Health, except within those areas within the county which are served by another
local health department certified by the State Department of Public Health; in
which case, the certified local health department shall be authorized to
enforce this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this
subchapter may file a complaint with the Village Police Department or the
County Department of Public Health.
      (2)   If it does not have jurisdiction, the County Department of Public
Health shall transmit the complaint to the appropriate certified local health
department.
   (C)   The County Department of Public Health, or designees, shall, while an
establishment is undergoing other public health inspections, inspect for
compliance with this subchapter.
   (D)   Any owner, manager, operator or employee of an establishment regulated
by this subchapter shall inform persons violating this subchapter of the
appropriate provisions thereof.
   (E)   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this
subchapter, the Village Police Department, the applicable certified local
health department or any person aggrieved by the failure of the owner,
operator, manager of other person in control of a public place or a place of
employment to comply with the provisions of this subchapter may apply for
injunctive relief to enforce these provisions in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 1-23-2007)
§ 93.25 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This subchapter shall not be interpreted or be construed to permit smoking
where it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 1-23-2007)
§ 93.26 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all areas within the village, except those
areas which are governed by an ordinance of another governmental entity (which,
by law, may not be superseded by this subchapter).
(Ord. 07-01, passed 1-23-2007)
§ 93.27 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect on 1-23-2007.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 1-23-2007)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
93.01 or
93.02 shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $500, for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues or until the license is suspended or revoked
pursuant to municipal ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 93.99)
   (B)   (1)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by §§
93.15 through
93.27 shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine not more than
$100.
      (2)   A person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of §§
93.15 through
93.27 shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $100 for the first violation;
         (b)   A fine not more than $500 for the second violation within one
year of the first violation; and
         (c)   A fine not more than $2,500 for each additional violation within
one year and a 60-day suspension or revocation of any permit or license issued
to the person for the premises on which the violation occurred.
      (3)   Each day on which a violation of §§
93.15 through
93.27 occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 92-11, passed 4-19-1993; Ord. 07-01, passed 1-23-2007)
CHAPTER 94: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
94.01   Loud, unusual noise prohibited
   
94.02   Horns; signaling devices
   
94.03   Radios, phonographs, televisions, musical instruments and the like
   
94.04   Amplifiers, drums or other means to attract attention to business or
public assembly
   
94.05   Shouting; singing; whistling
   
94.06   Steam whistles
   
94.07   Engine mufflers
   
94.08   Defective or overloaded vehicles
   
94.09   Loading; unloading
   
94.10   Building construction and repair
   
94.11   Disturbing schools, courts, churches and hospitals
   
94.12   Peddlers
   
94.13   Factories; machinery; tools and the like
   
94.14   Power fans; blowers
   94.15   Live entertainment
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 LOUD, UNUSUAL NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the village to make, continue
or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, convenience,
health, peace or safety of others within the limits of the village.
   (B)   The acts in this chapter are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary. These acts shall not be deemed exclusive.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 HORNS; SIGNALING DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any horn or similar signaling device on any
automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place in the
village, except as a danger warning; to create by means of any signaling device
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; to sound any such device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; to use any horn, whistle or other
device operated by engine exhaust and to use any signaling device when traffic
is, for any reason, held up.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, TELEVISIONS, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful to play, use, operate or permit to be played, used or
operated any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, television
receiving set or other machine or device for the production or reproduction of
sound, as follows, measured at the property line of the property where the
music or other sounds are being produced:
   (A)   At greater than 55 decibels between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; or
   (B)   At greater than 65 decibels at any other time.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 11-17, passed 10-11-2011) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 AMPLIFIERS, DRUMS OR OTHER MEANS TO ATTRACT ATTENTION TO BUSINESS OR
PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to play, use, operate or permit to be played,
used or operated any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loud
speaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the production or
reproduction of sound which is cast upon the public streets of the village for
the purpose of commercial advertising or of attracting attention of the public
to any building or structure, except when a permit has been first procured from
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to use within the village any drum or other
instrument or device to attract attention, by the creation of noise, to any
place of business, entertainment or place of public assembly.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to cause or allow to be made upon a public way or
in such close proximity to a public way as to be distinctly and loudly audible
any noise of any kind of crying, calling or shouting or by means of any
whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper, hammer, drum, horn, hand organ,
mechanically operated piano, other musical instrument or similar mechanical
device or wind instrument for the purpose of advertising any goods, wares or
merchandise or of attracting attention or inviting the patronage of any person
to any business; provided, the restrictions shall not apply to any public alley
in the village between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 SHOUTING; SINGING; WHISTLING.
   It shall be unlawful to yell, shout, hoot, whistle or sing on the public
streets of the village, particularly between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the peace, quiet,
comfort or repose of persons in any office, dwelling, hotel or other type of
residence or of persons in the vicinity, within the limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 STEAM WHISTLES.
   It shall be unlawful anywhere in the village to blow any steam whistle
attached to any stationary boiler, except to give notice of the tie to being or
stop work; as a warning of fire, danger or other emergency; or upon request of
proper village authorities.
(Prior Code, § 94.06) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 ENGINE MUFFLERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge into the open air within the village the
exhaust of any steam engine, gasoline engine, stationary internal combustion
engine or other type of engine, motor boat or motor vehicle, except through a
muffler or other device to prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 94.07) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 DEFECTIVE OR OVERLOADED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to use within the village any wagon, cart, automobile,
truck, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of repair or loaded in a manner as to
create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noises.
(Prior Code, § 94.08) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 LOADING; UNLOADING.
   It shall be unlawful to create loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening or destruction of bales, boxes,
crates, containers and the like without exercising reasonable care to limit and
confine the noise.
(Prior Code, § 94.09) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful to erect, excavate, demolish, alter or repair any
building within the village other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on weekdays, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public
health and safety and then only with a permit from the Building Inspector. The
permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or fewer while the
emergency continues and which may be renewed for periods of three days or fewer
while the emergency continues. If the Building Inspector determines the public
health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration
or repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways within the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. and, if the Building Inspector further
determines that loss or inconvenience would result to any party or interest,
the Inspector may permit the work to be done between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m., upon application.
(Prior Code, § 94.10) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 DISTURBING SCHOOLS, COURTS, CHURCHES AND HOSPITALS.
   It shall be unlawful to create within the village an excessive noise in the
vicinity of any school, institution of higher learning, church, court or
hospital while in use, which unreasonably interferes with the workings of the
institution or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital;
provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in the vicinity of any building
indicating it is a school, hospital, court or church.
(Prior Code, § 94.11) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 PEDDLERS.
   It shall be unlawful for peddlers, hawkers and vendors to shout and cry in a
way that disturbs the peace and quiet of the village.
(Prior Code, § 94.12) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13 FACTORIES; MACHINERY; TOOLS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate within 200 feet of any residence in
the village any factory that uses machinery or other apparatus which causes
loud or unusual noises, without exercising reasonable care to limit and confine
the noise.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate within the village between the hours
of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer,
derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is
attended by loud or unusual noises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain within 200 feet of any
residence a factory wherein are used pneumatic hammers or other apparatus that
cause loud or unusual noises.
(Prior Code, § 94.13) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 POWER FANS; BLOWERS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate within the village any noise-creating blower
or power fan for any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes
noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids unless the noise from
the blower or fan is muffled and the engine is equipped with a muffler device
to deaden the noise.
(Prior Code, § 94.14) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.15 LIVE ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   Any live entertainment including but not limited to bands shall not be
permitted in residential areas without a permit. Casa Italia is exempt as it is
not zoned R-1 and is a multi-use facility.
   (B)   The village may issue a permit for live entertainment upon completion
of an application and payment of the permit fee.
   (C)   Contents of application.
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Date and time of live entertainment;
      (3)   Description of live entertainment; and
      (4)   Any other necessary and reasonable information the village may
require.
   (D)   Restriction and regulations for permit.
      (1)   Live entertainment shall only be permitted for a maximum of two
consecutive hours on the approved date.
      (2)   Permits for live entertainment shall only be issued for the
following days and times:
         (a)   Fridays from 6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.;
         (b)   Saturdays from 12:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.;
         (c)   Sundays from 12:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.; and
         (d)   Designated holidays from 12:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.
      (3)   Applicant must obtain the unanimous approval of all neighbors
within a 300 foot radius of the applicant’s property line, applicant shall
submit a petition evidencing same.
      (4)   No applicant and/or residence shall receive more than two permits
for live entertainment in any calendar year.
      (5)   Applicants that receive two or more citations in any 12 month
period shall be ineligible to receive a permit for live music for a period of
12 months from the date of the last violation.
   (E)   The penalty for a violation of this section shall be as follows:
      (1)   One hundred dollars for the first offense;
      (2)   Two hundred and fifty dollars for the second offense; and
      (3)   Five hundred dollars for all subsequent offenses.
(Ord. 17-20, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter, for which no other penalty is set forth, shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than $100, nor more than $500, for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §§
94.04(C) and
94.13(C) shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $200,
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 94.99) (Ord. 75-16, passed 1-27-1976)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Offensive odors
   
95.02   Animal or vegetable matter
   
95.03   Depositing offensive matter
   
95.04   Smoke
   
95.05   Health hazards
   
95.06   Weeds
   
95.07   Disturbing the peace
   
95.08   Maintenance of commercial property by owner
Administration and Enforcement
   
95.20   Duties of Director of Public Safety and Health Officer
Waterways; Standing Water
   
95.35   Pollution of watercourses
   
95.36   Stagnant pools
Rodent Control
   
95.50   Duty of owner or occupant
   
95.51   Duty of Health Officer
   
95.52   Cost of abatement
   
95.53   Admission of Health Officer
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animal Control, see
Ch. 91
   Building Standards, see
Ch. 150
   Business Regulations, see Title XI
   Health; Safety; Sanitation, see
Ch. 93
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 OFFENSIVE ODORS.
   It shall be unlawful to negligently conduct any business or use any premises
to create an offensive odor that may taint the air and render it unwholesome or
disagreeable to the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 ANIMAL OR VEGETABLE MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or animal
or vegetable matter, slops, swill, suds, garbage, filth, stable drippings or
offal or noisome substance of any kind to be collected, deposited or to remain
in any place in the village to the prejudice of others.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 DEPOSITING OFFENSIVE MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit any manure, dead animal or other filthy,
offensive or noisome substance upon any lot, street, alley, highway or other
place.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 SMOKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the emission of dense smoke
from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or any other agency in the village
so as to cause annoyance or discomfort to the residents.
   (B)   For the purpose of testing and grading the density of smoke, the
Ringelmann Smoke Chart, as published and used by the United States Geological
Survey, shall be and hereby is adopted as a standard for the grading and smoke
shall be and hereby is defined and declared dense when it is of a degree of
density of No. 3 of the chart, or greater, for more than two minutes in any one
hour whether the period of time is consecutive or not.
(Prior Code, § 95.04) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 HEALTH HAZARDS.
   It shall be unlawful to bring into the village or keep therein for sale or
otherwise either for food or any other purpose, any dead or live animal or any
matter, substance or thing which shall be a nuisance or which shall cause a
nuisance in the village or which may or shall be dangerous or detrimental to
health.
(Prior Code, § 95.05) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 WEEDS.
   (A)   It shall be a nuisance to allow grass or weeds to exceed eight inches
in height or to allow trees or bushes to encroach on public sidewalks or the
public right-of-way. The owner of private property shall cut weeds and grass
and trim bushes and trees within five days after being notified to do so by the
Property Maintenance Officer. If the owner fails to remove the nuisance
greenery within five days after receiving notice, then the Department of Public
Works shall remove the nuisance greenery.
   (B)   (1)   After the removal of the nuisance greenery, but no later than
one year after the removal cost is incurred, the village shall:
         (a)   Deliver a notice of lien, by personal service or certified mail,
to the person to whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the
property for the taxable year immediately preceding the removal activities; and
         (b)   File the notice of lien in the office of the Recorder of the
county.
      (2)   The notice of lien must consist of a sworn statement setting out:
         (a)   The substance of § 11-20-15 of the Illinois Municipal Code and
this section;
         (b)   A description of the underlying parcel, by common description
and legal description; and
         (c)   A description of the removal activity, including the date or
dates when the removal activity occurred and the amount of the removal cost.
   (C)   The village may enforce this lien by proceedings to foreclose. An
action to foreclose a lien under this section must be commenced within two
years after the date of filing the notice of lien.
   (D)   Upon payment of the lien cost by the owner of the property after
notice of lien has been filed, the village shall release the lien and the
release may be filed of record by the owner, at his or her sole expense.
(Prior Code, § 95.06) (Ord. 11-18, passed 6-28-2011) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful to use or permit to be used by any person owning or in
possession or control of any building or premises or rent the same to be used
for any business or employment or for any purpose of pleasure or recreation if
the use shall, by its boisterous nature, disturb or destroy the peace of the
neighborhood in which the building or premise is situated to be dangerous or
detrimental to health.
(Prior Code, § 95.07) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 MAINTENANCE OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTY BY OWNER.
   Owners shall be responsible for maintenance and repair of structures in
accordance with the village code. Owner is required that exterior areas are
clean and free from rubbish and garbage. Maximum height of eight inches is
established for grass and weeds. All parking surfaces must be of hard pavement.
Owners are responsible for rear alley line of the property and parkway. The
property shall be defined as that which is owned by the owner as set forth in
the legal description filed with the County Recorder’s office.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 3-25-2003) Penalty, see §
95.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 95.20 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY AND HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit or
maintain the existence of any nuisance on any property under his, her or their
control. The Director of Public Safety and the Health Officer are each hereby
authorized to abate any nuisance existing in the village, whether the nuisance
is specifically recognized by ordinance or not.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to serve notice, in
writing, upon the owner, occupant, agent or person in possession or control of
any lot, building or premises in or upon which any nuisance may be found or who
may be the owner or cause of any nuisance requiring abatement in a manner as
the Health Officer shall prescribe, within a reasonable time. It shall not be
necessary in any case for the Health Officer to specify in the notice the
manner in which any nuisance shall be abated. The notice may be given or served
by any officer so directed.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to proceed at once upon the
expiration of the time specified in the notice described in division (B) above
to cause the nuisance to be abated; provided, whenever the owner, occupant,
agent or person in possession or control of any premises in or upon which any
nuisance may be found is unknown or cannot be found, the Health Officer shall
proceed to abate the nuisance without notice. In either case the expense of the
abatement shall be collected from the person who may have created, continued or
suffered the nuisance to exist, in addition to any penalty or fine.
(Prior Code, § 95.20) Penalty, see §
95.99
WATERWAYS; STANDING WATER
§ 95.35 POLLUTION OF WATERCOURSES.
   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person, firm or corporation to
obstruct or pollute any watercourse or source of supply in the village.
(Prior Code, § 95.30) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.36 STAGNANT POOLS.
   Any stagnant pool of water in the village is hereby declared a nuisance. It
shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit any such
nuisance to remain or exist on any property under his, her or their control.
(Prior Code, § 95.31) Penalty, §
95.99
RODENT CONTROL
§ 95.50 DUTY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every property owner and occupant of any
house, building or apartment, at all times, to maintain the property free of
rodents.
   (B)   Any visible evidence of rodents on the property which continues for
ten days shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of the aforementioned
duty.
(Prior Code, § 95.50) (Ord. 80-4, passed 6-9-1980) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.51 DUTY OF HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Village Health Officer and the Health
Officer’s assistants to notify in writing the owner and/or occupant of any
property within the village of any evidence there are rodents feeding or
breeding on the property. The Health Officer, or the Health Officer’s
assistant, shall reexamine the property ten days after delivering the
aforementioned notice to ascertain whether the problem has been abated.
   (B)   Where a rodent problem has not been abated within the limits
prescribed in division (A) above, the Health Officer shall make immediate
arrangements to abate the problem.
(Prior Code, § 95.51) (Ord. 80-4, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 95.52 COST OF ABATEMENT.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner and occupant of property to pay
all costs incurred to abate rodent problems on the property owned or occupied
by him, her or them. Any unpaid costs shall constitute a lien against the
property in favor of the village.
(Prior Code, § 95.52) (Ord. 80-4, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 95.53 ADMISSION OF HEALTH OFFICER.
   The Health Officer, or his or her assistants, shall be admitted to any
property within the village for the purposes of enforcing this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.53) (Ord. 80-4, passed 6-9-1980) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $500, for each offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during on which a
violation occurs.
(Prior Code, § 95.99)
   (B)   If the owner fails to maintain property in a manner as described in §
95.08, there shall be imposed a fine in the sum not less than $50, nor more
than $100, for each offense per day until corrected or otherwise. If the owner
fails to rectify the situation within reasonable length of time given, the
Director of Public Safety shall notify the Director of the Public Works
Department to rectify the exterior violation at the sole expense of the owner
of the premises.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 3-25-2003)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Permit required for pavement or repair
   
96.02   Bond
   
96.03   Specifications
   
96.04   Injury to pavement
   
96.05   Repairs
   
96.06   Duty of village employees to report defects
   
96.07   Obstructions
   
96.08   Barricades
   
96.09   Private use
   
96.10   Encroachments
   
96.11   Drains
   
96.12   Poles and wires
   
96.13   Gas pumps
   
96.14   Excavations
   
96.15   Openings
   
96.16   Fences
   
96.17   Deposits of materials
   
96.18   Burning materials on street
   
96.19   Driveways
Overhanging Signs and Canopies
   
96.30   Permit
   
96.31   Bond
   
96.32   Construction
   
96.33   Height
   
96.34   Inspection
House Numbering
   
96.45   System adopted
Trees and Shrubs
   
96.60   Planting
   
96.61   Removal
   
96.62   Injury
   
96.63   Advertisements or notices
   
96.64   Dangerous trees
   
96.65   Wires
   
96.66   Excavations
 
   
96.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR PAVEMENT OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement on any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way or to repair the same without having first
secured a permit therefor. Applications for the permits shall be made to the
Village Clerk and shall state the location of the intended pavement or repair,
the extent thereof and the person or firm who is to do the actual construction
work. No permit shall be issued, except on order of the Village President and
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 BOND.
   Each applicant shall file a bond, in the amount to be determined from time
to time with sureties to be approved by the Village President and Board of
Trustees, conditioned to indemnify the village from any loss or damage
resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of doing the same.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 SPECIFICATIONS.
   All street and sidewalk pavement shall be made in conformity with the
specifications issued from time to time by the Village President and Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 INJURY TO PAVEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon or
injure any new street or alley pavement when it is guarded by a warning sign or
barricade or to knowingly injure any street, sidewalk or alley pavement.
(Prior Code, § 96.04) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 REPAIRS.
   All public streets, alley and sidewalk pavement shall be in good repair. The
repair work, whether done by the village or the abutting owner, shall be under
the supervision of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 96.05) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 DUTY OF VILLAGE EMPLOYEES TO REPORT DEFECTS.
   It shall be the duty of every village officer or employee becoming cognizant
of any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk or any obstruction thereof to
report the same to the Director of Public Works as soon as possible.
(Prior Code, § 96.06) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause, create or
maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way,
except as may be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the Director of
Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 96.07) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 BARRICADES.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation laying or repairing any pavement on a
street, sidewalk or other public place or making an excavation in the same
shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury of any person or vehicle
by reason of the work. The barricades shall be protected with suitable lights
at night time.
   (B)   Any defect in any pavement shall be barricaded to prevent injury; any
person, firm or corporation properly maintaining any opening or excavation in
any such place shall guard the opening or excavation while it remains open by
proper barricades and lights.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere with any barricade or
lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement or excavation or
opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 96.08) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09 PRIVATE USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk or other public place as space for the display of goods or merchandise
for sale; or to write or mark any signs or advertisements on any pavement.
(Prior Code, § 96.09) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(Prior Code, § 96.10) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.11 DRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 96.11) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.12 POLES AND WIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or maintain any poles or
wires over any public place, street, alley or other public way without having
first secured a permit therefor from the Village President and Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 96.12) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.13 GAS PUMPS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline pump or tank in
any public street, alley or sidewalk without first having secured a permit
therefor from the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   No permit required in division (A) above shall be issued until the
applicant furnishes a bond to indemnify the village against loss or liability,
in a sum to be determined from time to time, for any loss or liability
occasioned by the tank or pump.
(Prior Code, § 96.13) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.14 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in or tunnel under any
public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the village without
having first secured a permit therefor. Applications for the permits shall be
made to the Village Clerk and shall specify the intended location and purpose
of the excavation.
   (B)   No person shall make any excavation or tunnel provided for in division
(A) above without first having secured and furnished the village with a copy of
or certificate of a bond or policy conditioned to indemnify and hold the
village harmless from any loss, damage or liability resulting from the work
done or any acts or omissions in connection therewith.
   (C)   Any person making any excavation shall refill it properly and shall
restore the surface to its condition before the excavation was made, as soon as
possible.
   (D)   All excavations, refills and resurfacing shall be made subject to the
supervision and under the direction of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 96.14) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.15 OPENINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any opening or stairway
in any public street or alley or sidewalk or other public place without a
permit from the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   All lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable strong
cover or railing to the approval of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 96.15) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.16 FENCES.
   No person shall erect, construct or maintain any fence or any section or
portion thereof unless it shall conform to the following requirements and
specifications.
   (A)   On that portion of the premises within 35 feet of the property line
fronting a public street, all fences shall be at least 50% open and no fence
shall exceed four feet in height above the surface of the ground.
   (B)   On that portion of the premises which is more than 35 feet from the
property line fronting a public street and which is more than five feet from
the property line abutting a public alley, and which is less than ten feet from
any adjacent private property, no fence shall exceed five feet, four inches in
height above the surface of the ground unless first there shall be filed with
the Village Clerk a consent in writing signed by the owner of record of the
nearest private property contiguous thereto, which consent may authorize a
particular fence not exceeding, in any event, seven feet above the surface of
the ground.
   (C)   On that portion of the premises which constitutes the rear and which
abuts on a public alley, and which is not more than five feet from the property
line abutting the public alley, no fence may exceed a height of seven feet
above the surface of the ground but may be constructed of any material,
excepting barbed wire, as desired by the owner or occupant of the premises.
   (D)   (1)   No person being the owner, lessee or agent of any real estate in
the village shall erect, maintain or permit to be erected or maintained on or
about the exterior building line of the real estate or upon any portion of the
sidewalk adjacent to the real estate any railing, fence, guard or protection of
any kind of barbed wire or upon which railing, fence, guard or other protection
there shall be affixed or placed or in any manner attached any spike, nail or
pointed instrument of any kind or description.
      (2)   Not more than three strands of barbed wire shall be permitted along
the uppermost portion of fences about the exterior building line of the real
estate or upon any portion of the sidewalk adjacent to the real estate of all
parcels of real estate classified as commercial district B and industrial
district under the provisions of the Stone Park Zoning Ordinance of 1940 as
amended, provided the strands of barbed wire shall be at least six feet above
the sidewalk and extend inward of the property.
(Prior Code, § 96.16) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.17 DEPOSITS OF MATERIALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material which may
be harmful to the pavement, or any waste material, glass or other articles
which may cause injury to any person, animal or property.
   (B)   Coal or other materials may be deposited in streets in preparation of
delivery for use; provided, the deposit does not reduce the usable width of the
street or roadway at that point to less than 18 feet; and, provided, the
material coal other than material used in actual building construction shall
not be permitted to remain in the street for more than three hours.
   (C)   Any such material or coal shall be guarded by lights if it remains
upon any street after nightfall.
(Prior Code, § 96.17) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.18 BURNING MATERIALS ON STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to burn any leaves,
paper, rubbish or other substances upon any of the public streets, sidewalks or
alleys in the village.
(Prior Code, § 96.18) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.19 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any driveway in or
across any public walk in the village where this necessitates any interference
with or change in the grade of any public sidewalk, curb or parkway without
having first obtained a permit therefor from the Board of Trustees.
Applications for permits shall state the size, location and material to be used
in the driveway, and it shall be unlawful to vary from these specifications
without permission from the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Fees for commercial residential permits shall be determined from time
to time.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the person, firm or corporation maintaining
any driveway to keep it free from snow and ice or any obstruction and to keep
it in good repair where it crosses a public sidewalk.
   (D)   Any driveway in or across any public street in the village or which
crosses any curb or parkway shall be constructed of a hard surface material. No
permit shall be issued for construction which would use a soil or gravel
surface.
(Prior Code, § 96.19) (Ord. 72-1, passed 7-1-1972) Penalty, see §
96.99
OVERHANGING SIGNS AND CANOPIES
§ 96.30 PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall erect or maintain any sign,
signboard or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley or other public way
in the village without first having obtained a permit therefor as provided in
this section. Permits for signs, canopies or signboards shall be issued by the
Village Clerk, subject to approval of the Building Inspector upon payment of
the fee provided and shall designate the location of the proposed structure.
   (B)   Fees for commercial residential permits shall be determined from time
to time.
   (C)   The period for which permits required by this subchapter run shall be
the same as the general license year.
(Prior Code, § 96.30) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.31 BOND.
   (A)   Each person, firm or corporation maintaining a sign as described in §
96.30(A) shall file with the Village Clerk a bond or indemnity policy in a sum
to be determined from time to time, conditioned to indemnify the village for
any loss, damage or liability that may result from the construction or
maintenance of the sign or canopy. The bond or indemnity policy shall have the
sureties that may be approved by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   If a blanket indemnity insurance policy against any loss or liability
due to the signs and canopies is secured by the village, the bond prescribed in
division (A) above shall not be required.
(Prior Code, § 96.31) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.32 CONSTRUCTION.
   All signs and canopies extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley or
other public place must be securely fastened and constructed so there will be
no danger of them being dislodged by ordinary winds or falling from other
cause.
(Prior Code, § 96.32) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.33 HEIGHT.
   The lowest part of any canopy, sign, non-rigid awning or any support thereof
which extends over any public way shall be at least ten feet above the level of
the walk or public way over which it extends. No such sign shall be maintained
over any public way used by vehicles if any of its support or of the sign is
less than 15 feet above the level of the public way.
(Prior Code, § 96.33) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.34 INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to cause to be inspected
every sign, canopy or awning which extends over any sidewalk, alley or other
public way. If any sign or canopy is found to be insecurely fastened the
Building Inspector shall report this fact to the owner of the sign or to the
owner or occupant of the premises on which it is fastened. If the sign or
canopy is not made secure within ten days after the notice, it may be torn down
by the Fire Department on order of the Village President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 96.34) Penalty, see §
96.99
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 96.45 SYSTEM ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a uniform system of street numbers within
the village, consistent with the street numbering system adopted by the
adjoining municipalities.
   (B)   Each parcel of real estate within the corporate limits of the village
shall be identified by the street number following the legal description.
   (C)   Improvements on parcels of real estate shall be identified by the
owner thereof with the proper street number.
(Prior Code, § 96.40) Penalty, see §
96.99
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 96.60 PLANTING.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or shrub in any public street or
parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for the permits shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall be
referred by him or her to the Village President and Board of Trustees. All
trees and shrubs so planted shall be placed subject to the directions and
approval of the Committee on Streets and Alleys.
(Prior Code, § 96.50) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.61 REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub in any street,
parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for the permits shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall be
referred by the Clerk to the Village President and Board of Trustees for
approval before permission shall be granted.
(Prior Code, § 96.51) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.62 INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in any public
place.
(Prior Code, § 96.52) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.63 ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree
or shrub in any street, parkway or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 96.53) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.64 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the village in a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel
on the public places shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises on
which the tree or shrub grows so the obstruction ceases.
   (B)   Any limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across any
public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which the
tree grows or stands.
(Prior Code, § 96.54) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.65 WIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or other rope to any tree
without permission of the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Any person or company given the right to maintain poles and wires in
the streets, alleys or other public places in the village shall, in the absence
of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep the wires and poles
free from and away from any trees or shrubs in the places so far as may be
possible and shall keep all the trees and shrubs properly trimmed and subject
to the supervision of the Director of Public Works, so no injury shall be done
to the poles or wires, or shrubs and trees by contact.
(Prior Code, § 96.55) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.66 EXCAVATIONS.
   In making excavations in streets or other public places, proper care shall
be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub, wherever possible.
(Prior Code, § 96.56) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §§
96.01 through
96.19 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $200,
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §§
96.30 through
96.34 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500,
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day
during or on which a violation or failure to comply occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §§
96.45 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $10. Each day
a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §§
96.60 through
96.66 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $100,
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 96.99) (Ord. 76-3, passed 5-24-1976)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ADVERTISING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
113.   MASSAGE SERVICES
      
114.   NUDITY; INDECENCY; OBSCENITY
      
115.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS; ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
116.   TAXICABS
      
117.   GARAGE SALES AND OTHER OCCASIONAL SALES
      
118.   MINI-THEATERS
      
119.   PAWNBROKERS
      
120.   ADULT USES
      
121.   ICE CREAM PUSH CARTS AND ICE CREAM VENDORS
      
122.   SHORT-TERM RENTAL ESTABLISHMENTS
      
123.   PROHIBITION OF SALE OF TOBACCO
      
124.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 110: ADVERTISING
Section
Signs and Awnings
   
110.001   Off-premises commercial signs
   
110.002   Permits; fee
   
110.003   Bonds
   
110.004   Construction
   
110.005   Height
   
110.006   Inspection
Billboards
   
110.020   Purpose; prohibition
   
110.021   Definition
   
110.022   Permit required
   
110.023   Application for permit
   
110.024   Revocation of permit
   
110.025   Permit relocation
   
110.026   Wind; pressure
   
110.027   Design requirements
   
110.028   Fireproofing
   
110.029   Illumination
   
110.030   Fire escapes
   
110.031   Height; distance
   
110.032   Location; frontage consents
   
110.033   Consent of owner
   
110.034   Roof signs
   
110.035   Abutting buildings
   
110.036   Nuisances
   
110.037   Compliance
   
110.038   Enforcement
   
110.039   Removal
   
110.040   Alterations
   
110.041   Registration; identification
   
110.042   Fees; bonds; insurance
   
110.043   Maintenance
   
110.044   Inspection
   
110.045   Reconstruction
   
110.046   Advertising subjects
Outdoor Advertisers
   
110.060   Definition
   
110.061   License; fee
   
110.062   Poster panels
   
110.063   Consent of owner
   
110.064   Refuse
   
110.065   Unlawful advertisements
   
110.066   Disfiguring
   
110.067   Name of advertiser
   
110.068   Exemptions
Advertising Signs
   
110.080   Permit required
   
110.081   Application
   
110.082   Expiration
   
110.083   Fees
   
110.084   Maintenance
   
110.085   Removal
   
110.086   Revocation of permit
   
110.087   Construction standards
 
   
110.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Audible noise to attract attention to a business or public assembly
prohibited, see §
94.04
SIGNS AND AWNINGS
§ 110.001 OFF-PREMISES COMMERCIAL SIGNS.
   (A)   Off-premises commercial advertising signs, which are those signs that
direct attention to a business commodity, service or entertainment conducted,
sold or offered elsewhere than upon the premises where the sign is located,
shall be permitted within 400 feet of Route 64 (North Avenue), Route 45
(Mannheim Road) and Route 20 (Lake Street). Notwithstanding anything herein to
the contrary, any off-premises commercial advertising sign with a face area of
greater than 200 square feet shall be set back from the rights-of-way described
one foot for every two square feet of face sign. In no event shall any off-
premises commercial advertising sign be constructed within 150 feet of any
residential zoned real estate.
   (B)   Temporary signs shall have the maximum allowable sign face area of 50
square feet per side and a maximum of two sides.
(Prior Code, § 110.015) (Ord. 89-10, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.002 PERMITS; FEE.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall erect or maintain any sign,
signboard or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley or other public way
in the village without having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits for
signs, canopies or signboards shall be issued by the Village Clerk, subject to
approval of the Building Inspector, upon payment of the fee provided, and shall
designate the location of the proposed structure.
   (B)   The annual fee for permits required by division (A) above shall be
determined from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 110.016) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.003 BONDS.
   (A)   Each person, firm or corporation maintaining a sign described herein
shall file with the Village Clerk a bond or indemnity policy in a sum to be
determined from time to time, conditioned to indemnify the village for any
loss, damage or liability that may result from the construction or maintenance
of the sign or canopy. The bond or indemnity policy shall have sureties as may
be approved by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   If a blanket indemnity insurance policy against any loss or liability
due to the signs or canopies is secured by the village, no bond shall be
required.
(Prior Code, § 110.017) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.004 CONSTRUCTION.
   All signs and canopies extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley or
other public place shall be securely fastened and constructed so there will be
no danger of them being dislodged by ordinary wind or falling from other cause.
(Prior Code, § 110.018) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.005 HEIGHT.
   The lowest part of any canopy, sign or non-rigid awning or any support
thereof which extends over any public way shall be at least ten feet above the
level of the walk or public way over which it extends, but no such sign shall
be maintained over any public way used by vehicles if any part of its support
or of the sign is less than 15 feet above the level of the public way.
(Prior Code, § 110.019) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.006 INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to inspect or cause to be
inspected every sign, canopy or awning which extends over any sidewalk, street,
alley or other public way. If any sign or canopy is found to be insecurely
fastened, the Building Inspector shall report this fact to the owner of the
sign or to the owner or occupant of the premises on which it is fastened. If
the sign or canopy is not made secure within ten days after the notice, it may
be torn down by the Fire Department on order of the Village President and Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 110.020) Penalty, see §
110.999
BILLBOARDS
§ 110.020 PURPOSE; PROHIBITION.
   (A)   The number of billboards in the village is limited to 12. No billboard
in excess of 12 billboards shall be erected or constructed unless an existing
billboard is relocated or reconstructed at a new location. A digital or static
billboard may be relocated or reconstructed if:
      (1)   The existing billboard was lawfully erected and registered as may
be required by village ordinance; and
      (2)   The reconstructed or relocated billboard will conform with all
ordinances of the village at its new location; and
      (3)   The relocated or reconstructed billboard is erected after the
existing billboard is removed or demolished; and
      (4)   The new billboard is no larger than 672 square feet per face and no
taller than the billboard that was removed or demolished.
   (B)   The purpose of division (A) above is to minimize the aesthetic harm
caused to adjacent property owners and the village as a whole by the
unregulated proliferation of billboards. Such aesthetic harms include, but are
not limited to, reductions in property values, hampering the economic growth of
the village, and an overall reduction in the beauty of the village.
(Prior Code, § 110.035) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987; Ord. 01-03, passed 5-22-
2001; Ord. 08-08, passed 5-13-2008; Ord. 12-08, passed 10-9-2012; Ord. 13-07,
passed 6-11-2013; Ord. 21-03, passed 2-23-2021)
§ 110.021 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLBOARD. A sign which can relate, in whole or in part, to a business,
commodity, service, entertainment or attraction sold, offered or existing at a
location other than the location where such a sign is displayed.
(Prior Code, § 110.036) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987; Ord. 08-08, passed 5-13-
2008; Ord. 12-08, passed 10-9-2012)
§ 110.022 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct a billboard in the village without
having first secured a permit therefor from the Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to require a permit for the
construction of a billboard or signboard, other than a roof sign, the total
display area of which does not exceed 15 square feet; and, provided, no license
issued hereunder shall be construed to authorize the construction or
maintenance of a billboard which extends over any public street or any part of
which extends over or above any public street, alley or sidewalk or other
public place. The fee for a permit to construct the billboard shall be
determined from time to time.
   (C)   No person shall erect, repair, alter, relocate or maintain in the
village any billboard or other advertising structure or device without first
obtaining a permit from the Village Clerk and making payment of the fee
required herein. The permit shall be null and void if construction is not
commenced within 60 days from the date of the permit.
   (D)   If work authorized by the permit required by division (C) above is
suspended or abandoned for 60 days any time after the work is commenced, a new
permit shall be required to recommence the construction and the fee will be
one-half the amount required for the initial permit.
   (E)   A permit shall be valid for one year, after which time it shall be
renewed for one year; provided, the owner or constructor for the billboard
submits renewed insurance certification or indemnity bond and the inspection
fee and the billboard is certified by the Clerk after inspection.
(Prior Code, § 110.037) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.023 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Applications for permits required by §
110.022 shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk. Each application shall
state thereon the name of the owner of the premises, the name of the person or
corporation constructing the billboard and specifications showing the size,
material and manner of construction of the billboard.
   (B)   Application for a billboard permit shall be made to the Village Clerk
upon a form provided by the Clerk and shall be accompanied by information as
may be required to assure compliance with all appropriate laws and regulations
of the village, including:
      (1)   Name and address of the owner of the billboard;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner or person in possession of the
premises where the billboard is located or to be located;
      (3)   Clear and legible drawings with a description definitely showing
the location of the billboard which is the subject of the permit and all other
existing billboards whose construction requires permits when the billboards are
on the same premises; and
      (4)   Drawings showing the dimensions, construction supports, sizes,
electrical wiring and components, materials of the billboards and method of
attachment and character of the structural members to which the attachment is
to be made. The design, quality, materials and loading shall conform to the
requirements of the Building Code and other portions of this code effective at
the time of application. If required by the Clerk, engineering data shall be
supplied on plans certified by an engineer licensed to practice in the state.
(Prior Code, § 110.038) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.024 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Village Clerk may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued under
the provisions of this subchapter whenever the Clerk finds the permit was
issued on the basis of a misstatement of fact or fraud, or the construction or
erection of the billboard is not in compliance with the conditions set forth in
the permit.
(Prior Code, § 110.039) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.025 PERMIT RELOCATION.
   Any billboard that is moved to another location either on the same or to
other premises shall be considered a new billboard and a permit shall be
secured for any work performed in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 110.040) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.026 WIND; PRESSURE.
   Every billboard shall be firmly and solidly constructed so as to be able to
bear a wind pressure of at least 30 pounds per square foot of area; provided,
billboards which are placed upon roofs must be constructed so as to withstand a
lateral wind pressure of 40 pounds per square inch.
(Prior Code, § 110.041) Penalty, see §
110.999
Cross-reference:
   Roof signs, see §
110.034
§ 110.027 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   All billboards shall be designed and constructed in conformance with the
village’s Building Code provisions and the requirements of the Village Clerk
with respect to materials to be used, wind pressure, earthquake shock and dead
load.
(Prior Code, § 110.042) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.028 FIREPROOFING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct any billboard of more than 15 square
feet in area anywhere in the fire limits unless its face is constructed of non-
combustible material.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct on any billboard on the roof of any
building or structure from anything but incombustible materials.
   (C)   All roof signs and billboards which are constructed entirely of
fireproof materials shall be so constructed and braced that the supports of the
signs or billboards shall bear directly on the masonry walls of the buildings
or upon the steel girders which are supported by the masonry walls.
(Prior Code, § 110.043) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.029 ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   The wiring of illuminating billboards and signboards shall comply with
the provisions of the ordinances relating to electrical wiring.
   (B)   No billboard shall be illuminated by any source other than electrical
means and electric devices and wiring shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the Chicago Electrical Code. In no case shall any open spark or
flame be used for display purposes.
(Prior Code, § 110.044) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.030 FIRE ESCAPES.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any billboards in a position as to
obstruct any fire escape or any window or door leading thereto. No billboard
shall be fastened to any fire escape.
(Prior Code, § 110.045) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.031 HEIGHT; DISTANCE.
   (A)   Every billboard shall be constructed to leave an open space of at
least two and one-half feet between the bottom of the display area and the
ground. This open area may be filled with lattice work or other ornamental
design which does not close off more than two-thirds of any square foot of the
open area.
   (B)   Billboards constructed on property on which there is a properly
established building line shall be built entirely behind this line. No permit
shall be issued for the construction of any billboard on any lot which is
subject to a proper building line restriction if the billboard is to be
constructed in violation of the building line restriction.
(Prior Code, § 110.046) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.032 LOCATION; FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BLOCK. The portion of the street between the two intersections with other
public streets nearest the specified location on each side; provided, if, on
either or both sides of the location, there is no intersection within 300 feet
of the center of the specified location, the BLOCK shall be considered as
terminating at a point 300 feet from the center.
      STREET. Highways that have been dedicated by either common law or
statutory dedication as public streets and are actually in use as such. STREET
shall not be construed to include or mean merely service highways, which are
commonly known as “alleys”.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall locate, build, construct, operate
or maintain any billboard in any block in the village where a majority of the
houses abutting on both sides of the street in the block are used exclusively
for residence purposes without having first secured the written consent of the
owners of a majority of the frontage abutting the street on both sides within
the block.
   (C)   Frontage consents once secured and filed shall not be withdrawn and
need not be renewed, except on the construction of a new billboard to replace
the one for which the consents were granted. Where consents are required and
have been obtained for the construction of one or more billboards on any
particular lot, additional consents for any additional billboard on the same
lot shall be secured and filed in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 110.047) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.033 CONSENT OF OWNER.
   Before any permit is granted for the erection of a billboard or outdoor
display structure, plans and specifications shall be filed with the Village
Clerk showing the dimensions, materials and required details of construction,
including loads, stresses and anchorage. The application shall be accompanied
by the written consent of the owner or lessee of the premises upon which the
billboard is to be erected.
(Prior Code, § 110.048) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.034 ROOF SIGNS.
   (A)   All roof signs or billboards shall be constructed so there is at least
four feet of space between the billboard or signboard and the edge of the roof
at all sides and ends.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct any roof sign or billboard on the
roof of any building which is unable to withstand the additional weight and
wind pressure imposed by the construction.
   (C)   The metal supports and parts of every roof sign shall be thoroughly
and properly painted at least once every two years unless they are galvanized
or otherwise adequately protected against rust and corrosion.
(Prior Code, § 110.049) Penalty, see §
110.999
Cross-reference:
   Wind; pressure, see §
110.026
§ 110.035 ABUTTING BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to construct any billboard, a majority of the display
area of which is within four feet of any building, unless the billboard is
constructed of non-combustible material.
(Prior Code, § 110.050) Penalty, see §
110.999
Cross-reference:
   Fireproofing, see §
110.028
§ 110.036 NUISANCES.
   Any billboard or signboard, which is dangerous because of insecure
construction or fastening with resultant danger of falling or because it is an
extreme fire hazard and a nuisance, is hereby declared a nuisance and may be
abated as such.
(Prior Code, § 110.051) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.037 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Any billboard constructed after the adoption of this section which is
not in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter shall be removed by
the owner, agent or person in charge of its within a five-day period after
notice of removal by the Village Clerk by registered mail.
   (B)   In the event the owner, agent or person in charge of the billboard
cannot be ascertained by the Village Clerk, the notice required by division (A)
above shall be given to the owner of the real estate upon which the billboard
is located. In the event the owner of the real estate does not pay the amount
thereof within ten days from the billing, the cost and expense shall be
assessed against the real estate upon which the billboard is located.
(Prior Code, § 110.052) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.038 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce the provisions of
this subchapter; the Building Inspector is authorized hereby to do so.
(Prior Code, § 110.053) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.039 REMOVAL.
   Any billboard now or hereafter existing which no longer advertises a bona
fide business or product sold or is dilapidated or out of repair shall be taken
down and removed by the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the
building, structure or land upon which a billboard may be found within ten days
after written notice from the Village Clerk and upon failure to comply with the
notice within the time specified in the order, the Clerk is hereby authorized
to cause removal of the billboard and any expense incident thereto shall be
paid by the owner of the building, structure or land to which the billboard is
attached. In the event the cost and expense are not paid within ten days after
the day of billing, the costs and expenses incurred for the removal shall be
assessed against the real estate upon which the billboard is located.
(Prior Code, § 110.054) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.040 ALTERATIONS.
   No billboard shall be enlarged or relocated, except in conformance with the
provisions of this subchapter for new billboards, nor until a proper permit has
been secured. The changing of movable parts of an approved billboard that is
designed for the changes or the repainting or reposting of display matter shall
not be deemed an alteration; provided, the conditions of the original approval
and the requirements of this subchapter are not violated.
(Prior Code, § 110.055) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.041 REGISTRATION; IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Every billboard requiring issuance of a permit for erection shall be
registered with the office of the Village Clerk by the person maintaining the
billboard.
   (B)   Every billboard for which a permit has been issued and hereafter
erected, constructed or maintained shall be plainly marked with the name of the
person, firm or corporation owning, erecting, maintaining or operating the
billboard.
(Prior Code, § 110.056) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.042 FEES; BONDS; INSURANCE.
   (A)   Annual fees shall be determined from time to time.
   (B)   The following schedule of performance bonds shall be required:
 
                                        Performance Bond Equal to One-Year
Size (in feet) Footage (in square feet) Permit Fee to be Deposited with the
                                        Village
6 x 12         72                       $72
12 x 24        288                      $288
14 x 48        672                      $672
20 x 40        800                      $800
20 x 60        1,200                    $1,200
 
   (B)   No person shall receive a permit to erect, install, remove or rehang
any billboard under the provisions of this subchapter unless he or she files
with the Village Clerk a liability insurance policy covering all damage or
injury that might be caused by each of the billboards or a certificate of
insurance therefor issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in
the state and satisfactory to the Village Clerk with limits of liability of not
less than $50,000 for the property damage and $300,000 for personal injuries.
The village, its officers, agents and employees shall be named as additional
parties insured. The liability insurance policy or indemnity bond shall be in
force for the year and will coincide with the time of the permit herein.
   (C)   To renew the permit after one year, the applicant shall be required to
submit to the Village Clerk a certificate of renewal of the liability insurance
for one year.
   (D)   In lieu of insurance, the applicant may file an indemnity bond with a
corporate surety satisfactory to the Clerk in an amount of $300,000, which will
provide the principal and surety will indemnify and hold harmless the village,
its officers, agents and employees from all claims, loss or suits resulting
from any billboard.
   (E)   The obligation set forth in division (D) above shall remain in force
and effect during the life of every billboard and shall not be canceled by the
principal or surety until after 30 days’ notice to the office of the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 110.057) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.043 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every outdoor advertiser to keep all grass,
weeds and other growth, except trees and ornamental shrubbery, cut so it will
not grow to a height greater than ten inches within six feet of any billboard
or signboard used by him or her. These provisions shall extend only to property
controlled by the advertiser.
   (B)   All billboards for which a permit is required, together with supports,
braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in repair in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner or lessee of
every billboard to maintain the immediate premises occupied by the billboard in
a clean, sanitary, inoffensive and healthful condition, free and clear of all
obnoxious substances, rubbish and weeds.
(Prior Code, § 110.058) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.044 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Every billboard for which a permit has been issued shall be inspected
when completed before the billboard is accepted by the Village Clerk, duly
marked that the billboard is inspected and approved, including the date of
expiration of the permit. Every billboard shall be inspected when an
application for renewal of a permit has been filed and the fee is paid.
   (B)   No permit shall be renewed unless the Village Clerk finds the
billboard has been maintained in a manner as to ensure it is in a safely
maintained condition as to the requirements of this subchapter and all other
applicable codes and regulations of the village. The inspection will be worked
in the same manner as provided for a new billboard.
   (C)   Any billboard for which the inspection permit has not been secured and
the billboard duly marked with the date of the expiration of the new permit
shall be removed at the owner’s expense after 30 days from the date of written
notice issued by the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 110.059) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.045 RECONSTRUCTION.
   No billboard approved and erected shall be repaired, altered or moved, nor
shall any billboard or any substantial part thereof which is blown down,
destroyed or removed be re-erected, reconstructed, rebuilt or relocated unless
it is made to comply with all applicable requirements of this subchapter and
any applicable provisions of this code or other ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 110.060) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.046 ADVERTISING SUBJECTS.
   No person shall allow any billboard permitted hereunder to be used to
advertise any patently and offensive objectionable or repulsive products,
subject matter, events or activities.
(Prior Code, § 110.061) (Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987) Penalty, see §
110.999
OUTDOOR ADVERTISERS
§ 110.060 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISERS. Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business
of placing, posting or painting any sign, advertisement or display in or on any
place for the purpose of outdoor advertising so the resultant display is
visible from any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 110.070) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.061 LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any outdoor advertiser to do business in the
village without having first secured a license therefor; provided, no license
issued under this subchapter shall be construed to permit the use for
advertising purposes of any structure, natural or artificial, which is located
in any public street, alley or other public place in the village.
   (B)   Applications for the licenses shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk and shall be accompanied by a list of all places, including billboards or
natural structures, on which it is intended to place signs or advertisements.
This list shall be added to from time to time by the licensee as a right to
post advertisements or signs on additional places as acquired.
   (C)   The annual fee for the license required by this section shall be
determined from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 110.071) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.062 POSTER PANELS.
   No person shall post any advertisements on any premises in the village
without the consent of the owner of the premises. The consents shall be in
writing and must be filed with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 110.072) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.063 CONSENT OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful to post any advertisements on any premises in the
village without the consent of the owner of the premises. The consents shall be
in writing and shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 110.073) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.064 REFUSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in outdoor advertising to
permit any refuse resulting from this work to accumulate anywhere in the
village, except by placing it in properly established refuse receptacles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to permit any loose, flapping or combustible
materials to hang from or be attached to any billboard or signboard or other
place used for display or advertising purposes. All refuse resulting from the
operation of this business shall be gathered up carefully and disposed of
properly.
(Prior Code, § 110.074) Penalty, see §
110.999  
§ 110.065 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to post or display
any advertisement of an obscene character, any advertisement tending to promote
or cause a riot or breach of the peace, any advertisement of any unlawful
gathering or advertisements of unlawful sales.
(Prior Code, § 110.075) Penalty, see §
110.999
Cross-reference:
   Definition of obscene, see §
134.02
§ 110.066 DISFIGURING.
   It shall be unlawful to mutilate or disfigure any lawful signs or
advertisements in the village.
(Prior Code, § 110.076) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.067 NAME OF ADVERTISER.
   It shall be unlawful for any outdoor advertiser to carry on business unless
the name of the advertiser is attached, displayed or printed on all billboards
or signboards used by the advertiser or on any notice, placard or advertisement
posted by the advertiser in lettering to be visible from a distance of at least
five feet from the notice or advertisement.
(Prior Code, § 110.077) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.068 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed to apply to the
posting of signs or notices by order of any court or by any public officer in
the performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 110.078) Penalty, see §
110.999
ADVERTISING SIGNS
§ 110.080 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person to erect, enlarge, alter or maintain within the village any sign
without first obtaining a permit from the office of the Village Clerk and
paying the fee required by §
110.083.
(Prior Code, § 110.090) (Ord. 89-8, passed 8-28-1989) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.081 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for permits required by this subchapter shall be made upon
a form provided by the village and shall contain or have attached thereto the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   The location of the building, structure or lot to which or upon
which the sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected;
      (3)   The position of the sign or other advertising structure in relation
to nearby buildings or structures;
      (4)   A blueprint or other legible drawing of the plans and
specifications of the sign and the method of construction and attachment to the
building or in the ground;
      (5)   The name of the person, firm, corporation or association erecting
the structure;
      (6)   The written consent of the owner of the building, structure or land
to which or on which the structure is to be erected;
      (7)   A certificate of insurance or other evidence of appropriate risk
protection in a form acceptable to the Village Attorney, showing the applicant
or constructor has, and will keep in force at all times during the performance
of the work for which the permit is issued, broad form, public liability
insurance with limits of not less than $500,000 per occurrence. The village,
its officials and employees, shall be named as additional insureds. There shall
be no cost to the village for this insurance;
      (8)   A cash bond of $100, refundable upon completion of construction or
erection of the sign in compliance with the permit issued therefor and this
subchapter; and
      (9)   Other information the Director of Building and Zoning shall require
to show full compliance with this and other laws and ordinances of the village.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner, upon receipt from
the Village Clerk of an application received by the Clerk for a sign permit, to
examine the plans and specifications and other data and the premises upon which
it is proposed to erect the sign and if it shall appear that the proposed sign
and structure is in compliance with all the requirements of this code, the
Commissioner shall issue the permit. If the work authorized under the permit
has not been completed within 90 days after the date of issuance, the permit
shall become null and void. No permit for a sign issued hereunder shall be
deemed to constitute permission or authorization to maintain an unlawful sign,
nor shall any permit issued hereunder constitute a defense in any action to
abate an unlawful sign.
(Prior Code, § 110.091) (Ord. 89-8, passed 8-28-1989) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.082 EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Permits for each sign, except temporary signs, shall expire April 30
following the date of issuance.
   (B)   Permits for temporary signs shall be issued for a maximum of 60 days
each calendar year per location. No more than one temporary sign shall be
permitted at any one location at any one time. Display periods of less than 60
days shall be permitted; provided, there is an intervening period of not less
than 30 days between display periods. A separate application and permit shall
be required for each display period, which shall be accompanied by a $250 cash
bond refundable at the expiration of each display period; provided, the sign
has been removed. The cash bond shall be forfeited in the event the sign has
not been removed at the expiration of the permit period.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall renew automatically a sign permit for an
additional year up to four calendar years from application upon the Clerk’s
determination the sign does not violate any applicable requirement of this
subchapter. The Building Commissioner may inspect each sign on a yearly basis
to determine if the permit should be automatically renewed.
   (D)   A sign existing on the date of passage and approval of this
subchapter, which has been determined to be a non-conforming sign for failure
to comply with the provisions hereof, shall be brought into conformity
therewith no more than one year from the date of passage and approval of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.092) (Ord. 89-8, passed 8-28-1989) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.083 FEES.
   (A)   A non-refundable application fee shall be paid to the village upon
application for an advertising display sign permit. The application fee shall
be determined from time to time.
   (B)   An annual permit fee shall be charged to the owner of the advertising
display sign at a rate to be determined from time to time per square foot of
sign face. The permit fee for a new display sign shall be paid upon approval of
the application of the applicant and before the start of construction of the
sign. The initial permit fee for a sign to be newly constructed shall be
prorated as to the time between the date the application is approved and the
time remaining for the fiscal year through April 30 of the year.
(Prior Code, § 110.093) (Ord. 89-8, passed 8-28-1989; Ord. 90-7, passed 9-11-
1990; Ord. 90-15, passed 1-28-1991) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.084 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All signs, their supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in
good repair and shall, at all times, be maintained to conform to the minimum
standards prescribed thereof.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the person, partnership, firm or corporation
holding a permit for a sign and the owner of the lot or premises on which the
sign is erected to, at all times, maintain the lot or premises in the vicinity
of the sign in a neat, clean, sanitary and inoffensive condition, to kept it
free and clear of all debris, junk and other material and substances that would
tend to create a condition detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens.
   (C)   If the Building Commissioner shall find that any sign or other
structure regulated herein is unsafe or insecure or is a menace to the public
or has been constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter or other applicable provisions of this code, the
Commissioner shall give written notice to the permittee. If the permittee fails
to remove or alter the structure so as to comply with the standards set forth
herein within ten days after the notice, the Commissioner may request the
Village Attorney to apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an order
that the violation be abated and that the sign be removed or altered to comply
at the expense of the permittee or owner of the property upon which it is
located or to take whatever other action to enforce this subchapter as may be
permitted by law. The Village Clerk shall refuse to issue a permit to any
permittee or owner who refuses to pay costs so assessed.
(Prior Code, § 110.094) (Ord. 89-8, passed 8-28-1989) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.085 REMOVAL.
   Any sign now or hereafter existing which no longer advertises a bona fide
business conducted or a product sold, except non-commercial signs, shall be
taken down and removed by the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use
of the building or structure upon which the sign may be found within ten days
after written notice from the Building Commissioner. Upon failure to comply
with the notice within the time specified, the Commissioner may request the
Village Attorney to apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an order
that the violation be abated and the sign be removed at the expense of the
owner of the property upon which it is located or to take whatever other action
to enforce this subchapter as may be permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 110.095) (Ord. 89-8, passed 8-28-1989) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.086 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   All rights and privileges acquired under the provisions of this subchapter
are merely licenses revocable at any time by the Building Commissioner whenever
the permit is issued on the basis of a misstatement of fact, fraud or violation
of any provision of this subchapter. When a sign permit application is denied
or permit revoked by the Commissioner, the Commissioner shall give written
notice of the denial or revocation to the applicant, together with a brief
written statement of the reasons for the denial or revocation.
(Prior Code, § 110.096) (Ord. 89-8, passed 8-28-1989) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.087 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   All signs and other advertising structures shall be described and
constructed to withstand a wind pressure of not less than 15 pounds per square
foot of area and shall be constructed to receive dead load as described in the
Building Code and elsewhere in this code.
   (B)   All wall signs shall be safely and securely attached to the building
wall by means of metal anchors, bolts or expansion screws of not less than
three-eighteenths inch in diameter embedded in the wall at least five inches.
The signs may rest in or be bolted to strong, heavy metal brackets or saddles
set not only six feet apart, each of which shall be securely fixed to the wall
as hereinbefore provided. In no case shall any wall sign be secured by wire,
strips of wood or nails.
   (C)   All ground signs shall be erected upon posts and standards sunk at
least four feet below the surface of the ground.
   (D)   The lettering or advertising designs to be illuminated may be composed
of glass or other transparent or semi-transparent material. Any glass forming a
part of any sign shall be safety glass or plate glass at least one-quarter inch
thick and in case of a single piece of plate glass has an area exceeding three
square feet shall be wire placed.
   (E)   Any moveable part of a sign such as the cover of a service opening
shall be secured and fastened by chains or hinges.
   (F)   No temporary signs attached to an automobile truck or motor vehicle of
any kind shall be attached thereto so as to obstruct the driver’s vision to the
front, side or rear during operation of that motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 110.097) (Ord. 89-8, passed 8-28-1989) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
110.001, or
110.025 through
110.028, shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $100,
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
110.001 shall, upon conviction, be fined no less than $200, nor more than $500,
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating or failing to comply with
any provision of §§
110.003 through
110.006 or
110.020 through
110.046 for which no other penalty is set forth shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than $100, nor more than $500, for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
110.022,
110.023,
110.026,
110.028,
110.029(A),
110.030,
110.031,
110.032,
110.034,
110.037,
110.038 and
110.040 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $200,
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
110.060 through
110.068 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $1, nor more than $200.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 110.999) (Ord. 76-3, passed 5-24-1976; Ord. 77-7, passed 6-13-
1977; Ord. 86-7, passed 1-12-1987)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Licenses
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   Restrictions on issuance of licenses
   
111.03   Classes of licenses; number; fees
   
111.04   Applications
   
111.05   Restrictions on licenses
   
111.06   Sanitation and safety
   
111.07   Hearings
   
111.08   Appeals
   
111.09   Abatement of revoked, surrendered, and dormant licenses
Prohibited Acts
   
111.20   Sale to, possession by and responsibility for minors
   
111.21   Gambling
   
111.22   Prostitution
   
111.23   Drug use; trafficking
   
111.24   Drunkenness
   
111.25   Consumption in public ways
   
111.26   Video gaming licensing
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Prohibition on working for businesses that hold liquor licenses, §
30.018
LICENSES
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail within the village
any alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer’s license.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 91-11, passed 4-20-1992) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   No license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides and within the village;
   (B)   A person whose liquor license has been previously revoked, unless it
can be shown that he or she has been rehabilitated and is not likely to suffer
another revocation;
   (C)   A person who has not reached the age of 21 years; and/or
   (D)   A person who cannot satisfy the Liquor Commissioner that he or she has
at least a leasehold interest in the premises to be licensed and adequate dram
shop and liability insurance for the premises in question.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 91-11, passed 4-20-1992) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 CLASSES OF LICENSES; NUMBER; FEES.
   Licenses required by this chapter are hereby divided into the following
classifications.
   (A)   Class A.
      (1)   A Class A license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquors, for consumption only on the premises specified; except that, there
shall be no sales or consumption on the premises between the hours of 4:00 a.m.
and 11:00 a.m. on Monday through Sunday mornings by anyone, including the
licensee and his or her agents and employees.
      (2)   There shall be issued no more than five Class A licenses, for which
a fee of $10,000 per year shall be assessed, in semi-annual installments of
$5,000 each, on May 1 and November 1 each year.
   (B)   Class AA.
      (1)   Class AA license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquors, for consumption only on the premises specified; except, there shall be
no sales or consumption on the premises between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 11:
00 a.m. by anyone, including the licensee and his or her agents and employees.
      (2)   There shall be issued no more than two Class AA licenses, for which
a fee of $18,000 per year shall be assessed, in semi-annual installments of
$9,000 each, on May 1 and November 1 each year.
   (C)   Class B.
      (1)   A Class B license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquors, for consumption only on the premises specified; except that, there
shall be no sales or consumption on the premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 11:00 a.m. by anyone, including the licensee and his or her agents and
employees.
      (2)   There shall be issued no more than six Class B licenses, for which
a fee of $5,000 per year shall be assessed, in semi-annual installments of
$2,500 each on May 1 and November 1 each year.
   (D)   Class C.
      (1)   A Class C license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquors, but not for consumption on the premises where sold, prohibiting the
sale between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. by anyone, including the
licensee or his or her agents and employees.
      (2)   There shall be issued no more than four (packaged goods) Class C
licenses, for which a fee of $3,000 per year shall be assessed, in semi-annual
installments of $1,500 each, on May 1 and November 1 each year.
   (E)   Class CC.
      (1)   A Class CC license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquors (packaged goods) and allow alcoholic liquors for consumption only on
premises specified; except that, there shall be no sales or consumption on the
premises between 3:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. by anyone including the licensee and
his or her agent and employees.
      (2)   There shall be issued no more than one (package good and
consumption) Class CC license for which a fee of $6,500 per year shall be
assessed in semi-annual installments of $3,250 each, on May 1 and November 1
each year.
   (F)   Class D.
      (1)   A Class D license shall authorize and be restricted to the sale of
beer and wine for consumption on the premises; except, there shall be no sales
between the hours of midnight and 11:00 a.m. by anyone, including the licensee
and his or her agents and employees.
      (2)   There shall be issued no more than three (beer and wine) Class D
licenses, for which a fee of $2,000 per year shall be assessed, in semi-annual
installments of $1,000 each, on May 1 and November 1 each year.
   (G)   Class DD.
      (1)   A Class DD license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquors, for consumption only on the premises specified; except, there shall be
no sales or consumption on the premises between the hours of midnight and 11:00
a.m. by anyone, including the licensee and his or her agents and employees.
      (2)   There shall be issued no more than two Class DD licenses, for which
a fee of $4,000 per year shall be assessed, in semi-annual installments of
$2,000 each, on May 1 and November 1 each year.
   (H)   Class V.
      (1)   A Class V license shall authorize and be restricted to the sale of
liquor for consumption on the premises where the major and primary business is
that of a restaurant/café. Dancing, entertainment and live music furnished for
the entertainment of customers shall not be allowed under this license; except,
there shall be no sales between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. by anyone,
including the licensee and his or her agents and employees. Additionally, the
restaurant/café shall be required to generate more than 50% of its gross
revenue from the sale of food. The village shall be permitted to audit the
records of the license annually; if the license fails to meet the gross revenue
requirement for two years within a ten-year period, the liquor license shall be
immediately revoked.
      (2)   There shall be issued no more than one Class V license, for which a
fee of $6,000 per year shall be assessed, in semi-annual installments of $3,000
each, on May 1 and November 1 each year.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 91-11, passed 4-20-1992; Ord. 93-4, passed 11-15-
1993; Ord. 93-8, passed - -1993; Ord. 01-10, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 01-12,
passed 9-11-2001; Ord. 01-16, passed 10-9-2001; Ord. 02-06, passed 3-12-2002;
Ord. 02-27, passed 8-27-2002; Ord. 02-31, passed 11-26-2002; Ord. 03-03, passed
3-11-2003; Ord. 03-31, passed 12-9-2003; Ord. 04-12, passed 5-12-2004; Ord. 04-
23, passed 6-22-2004; Ord. 05-07, passed 3-22-2005; Ord. 06-04, passed 2-28-
2006; Ord. 06-09, passed 6-27-2006; Ord. 06-17, passed 11-6-2006; Ord. 08-04,
passed 2-26-2008; Ord. 08-06, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 09-06, passed 8-11-2009;
Ord. 09-08, passed 11-24-2009; Ord. 10-09, passed 8-19-2010; Ord. 11-12, passed
4-12-2011; Ord. 11-15, passed 5-24-2011; Ord. 18-04, passed 2-13-2018; Ord. 18-
21, passed 7-24-2018; Ord. 19-11, passed 8-13-2019; Ord. 19-24, passed 12-10-
2019; Ord. 20-04, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 21-01, passed 1-12-2021; Ord. 21-05,
passed 4-13-2021; Ord. 21-10, passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued hereunder, unless the applicant shall have
first submitted a written application to the Local Liquor Commissioner on the
form, or forms as are then in use, and submitted himself or herself for an oral
interview with the Local Liquor Commissioner, to answer the questions as the
Local Liquor Commissioner deems appropriate to the issuance of a license.
   (B)   The term APPLICANT, as used herein, shall include all partners,
officers (in the case of a corporation) and shareholders, owning more than 5%
of the corporate stock. Each applicant shall submit himself or herself and any
documentation required by the Local Liquor Commissioner at the times and places
requested by the Local Liquor Commissioner.
   (C)   Applicants should be prepared to furnish copies of relevant documents,
such as insurance policies, leases and the like and shall submit to being
fingerprinted and photographed.
   (D)   All applications shall be accompanied by a processing fee which is
mandated by the state.
(Prior Code, § 111.04) (Ord. 91-11, passed 4-20-1992) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES.
   (A)   Licenses hereunder are not transferable. In the case of death or
bankruptcy, the spouse, executor or trustee may operate the business under the
existing license for a period not to exceed six months after the death or
bankruptcy.
   (B)   No license may be moved to any premises not described in the
application without the approval, in writing, of the Local Liquor Commissioner.
   (C)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within 100 feet of any church or school; provided that, this prohibition
shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service, or to restaurants or
food shops where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on, if the place of business so exempted shall have been established
for such a purpose prior to the taking effect of this code, and provided
further, that in the case of a church, the distance of 100 feet shall be
measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship services or
educational programs and not to property boundaries.
   (D)   No liquor establishment shall restrict access to its premises by
having a door that impedes an immediate and unannounced inspection by any
officer of the law (i.e., a door that requires the establishment to buzz in its
patrons).
   (E)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor where the size of said bottle is less than 200 milliliters, the sale of
mini bottles is strictly prohibited.
(Prior Code, §111.05) (Ord. 91-11, passed 4-20-1992; Ord. 98-6, passed 9-21-
1998; Ord. 17-17, passed 9-12-2017; Ord. 18-08, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see
§
111.99
§ 111.06 SANITATION AND SAFETY.
   (A)   All licensees must conduct their business in premises which are at all
times kept in a clean and sanitary condition. This applies to places of storage
as well.
   (B)   No one may be employed in a licensed premises who is afflicted with,
or who is a carrier of any contagious, infectious or venereal disease. All
employees shall be ordered by the licensee to comply with any request of the
Village Health Officer for examination or testing. Failure of any employee to
cooperate may result in revocation of license.
(Prior Code, §111.06) (Ord. 91-11, passed 4-20-1992; Ord. 16-08, passed 5-10-
2016) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Local Liquor Commissioner may conduct hearings to suspend or
revoke licenses issued by him or her. However, the hearings must be initiated
by notice to the licensee containing a summary of the alleged violation at
least seven days prior to the date set for the hearing, giving the licensee an
opportunity to appear and defend. An official record of the hearing shall be
recorded by a certified court reporter. All hearings shall be open to the
public.
   (B)   The Code of Civil Procedure, being ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, of the state
shall not apply to the hearings, but no determination may be based solely on
hearsay evidence.
   (C)   Continuances may be obtained when requested 72 hours in advance by
notice to the Local Liquor Commissioner or the Village Attorney.
   (D)   Following the hearing as previously provided for, the Local Liquor
Commissioner may find:
      (1)   The local liquor license shall be revoked;
      (2)   The local liquor license shall be suspended for a period not to
exceed 30 days;
      (3)   The licensee be fined an amount not to exceed $500;
      (4)   The licensee be given a warning (which disposition shall not be
repeated within five calendar years in any hearing involving the same premises
and the same licensee);
      (5)   The Local Liquor Commissioner may reduce the licensee’s permitted
hours of operation; and/or
      (6)   In addition to any of the above, that costs of holding the hearing
may be assessed against the licensee.
   (E)   All orders of the Local Liquor Commissioner following the hearing
shall be in writing, contain the reason thereof or, and a copy served on the
licensee within 30 days of the date of hearing.
   (F)   (1)   The penalties provided for following hearings of the Local
Liquor Commission shall in no way effect the right of the village or the state
with respect to filing charges for criminal or quasi-criminal offenses and in
punishing for the criminal or quasi-criminal violations.
      (2)   Further, the hearing shall in no way effect any penalties provided
for in accordance with §
111.99.
(Prior Code, § 111.07) (Ord. 91-11, passed 4-20-1992) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 APPEALS.
   Appeals from filings of the Liquor Commissioner shall be limited to a review
of the official record of the proceedings by the State Commission.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) (Ord. 91-11, passed 4-20-1992) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 ABATEMENT OF REVOKED, SURRENDERED, AND DORMANT LICENSES.
   (A)   Any time a liquor license is revoked, surrendered, or becomes dormant
the number of liquor licenses within that respective liquor license class shall
automatically be reduced by one. When the number of liquor licenses within a
respective class is reduced by this section, the Liquor Control Commissioner
will notify the Village Clerk who is hereby authorized and directed to
immediately codify the corrected maximum number of liquor licenses available
for that respective class.
   (B)   The Liquor Control Commissioner shall provide written notice or
acknowledgment to the licensee of the abatement of the liquor license resulting
from the revocation, surrender or determination of abatement of license.
   (C)   The Liquor Control Commissioner upon convening a hearing may issue a
determination of a dormant license and abate the number of liquor licenses
within that respective class when any of the following circumstances occurs:
      (1)   A license shall be rendered dormant and shall abate when the
licensed premises has been closed or when no alcoholic liquor has been sold or
served on the premises for 30 days, and no request for transfer to a new
location or request for an extension of time has been received and granted by
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
      (2)   A license shall be rendered dormant and shall abate immediately
when a licensee sells or otherwise conveys the licensed premises, and such
license shall be deemed to have been surrendered to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
(Ord. 18-04, passed 2-13-2018; Ord. 18-21, passed 7-24-2018)
PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 111.20 SALE TO, POSSESSION BY AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Illegal acts by persons under 21 years of age.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to purchase
or obtain any alcoholic beverage in any dram shop or other place in the village
where alcoholic beverages are sold, or dispensed.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages in any dram shop or other place in the village where
alcoholic beverages are sold.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
drink, deliver or possess any alcoholic beverages within the village.
   (B)   Illegal acts by licensees or others.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s
license, or his or her agents or employees, to suffer or permit any minor under
21 years of age to be or remain in any room or compartment adjoining or
adjacent to or situated in the room or place where the licensed premises is
located; provided that, this division (B) shall not apply to any minor who is
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or to any licensed premises which
derives its principal business from the sale of food, services or commodities
other than alcoholic beverages.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to sell, give or deliver alcoholic beverages
to any minor who shall not have reached the age of 21 years within the village.
      (3)   No dram shop licensed under this section may employ any person,
relative or otherwise, for the purpose of dispensing, selling, transferring or
conveying alcoholic beverages, under the age of 21 years.
      (4)   In addition to all other fines and penalties, the Village President
may revoke the retail liquor dealer’s license for any violation of this
section.
   (C)   Parental responsibility. It shall be unlawful for any parent or
guardian to permit any minor child of which he or she may be parent or guardian
to violate any provision of this section.
(Prior Code, § 111.20) (Ord. 91-11, passed 4-20-1992) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 GAMBLING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to gamble in any dram shop or
other place in the village where alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed,
other than in a manner authorized by the Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act
40, §§ 1 et seq., and the provisions of this code.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s
license, or his or her agents or employees, to suffer or permit gambling in any
dram shop or other place in the village where alcoholic beverages are sold or
dispensed, other than in a manner authorized by the Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch.
230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq., and the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 111.21) (Ord. 91-11, passed 4-20-1992; Ord. 13-01, passed 1-22-
2013; Ord. 19-14, passed 9-24-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit for the purpose of
prostitution in any dram shop or other place in the village where alcoholic
beverages are sold or dispensed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s
license, or his or her agents or employees, to suffer or permit the
solicitation of prostitution in any dram shop or other place in the village
when alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed.
(Prior Code, § 111.22) (Ord. 91-11, passed 4-20-1992) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 DRUG USE; TRAFFICKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any illegal chemical
substance by inhalation, consumption or injection and/or to sell, convey and/or
distribute any illegal chemical substance for the purpose of inhaling,
consuming or injecting the same, in any dram shop or other place in the village
where alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s
license, or his or her agents and employees, to allow the usage or sale or
distribution of any illegal chemical substance for the purpose of injecting,
inhaling or consuming the same in any dram shop or other place in the village
when alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed.
(Prior Code, § 111.23) (Ord. 91-11, passed 4-20-1992) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.24 DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to become intoxicated from the
consumption of alcoholic beverages in any dram shop or other place in the
village where alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s
license, or his or her agents and employees, to allow service of alcoholic
beverages to any person who is or appears to be intoxicated from the
consumption of alcoholic beverages in any dram shop or other place in the
village where alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed.
(Prior Code, § 111.24) (Ord. 91-11, passed 4-20-1992) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.25 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC WAYS.
   No person shall be permitted to drink any alcoholic liquor, as defined by
law, on any public way or in or about any motor vehicle upon any public way in
the village.
(Ord. 05-15, passed 6-28-2005) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 VIDEO GAMING LICENSING.
   Video game terminals as authorized by the State of Illinois pursuant to the
Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq., are permitted within
licensed establishments in the village provided that:
   (A)   No establishment shall be permitted to operate any video gaming
terminal in the village unless the establishment owner has obtained the
required liquor license and business licenses.
   (B)   Video gaming terminal operators (video gaming companies) are required
to pay an annual fee of $1,500 per video gaming machine.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 1-22-2013; Ord. 19-14, passed 9-24-2019; Ord. 20-15, passed
7-28-2020) Penalty, §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500, for each
offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   For any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions within
§
111.25, a fine of $300 will be issued.
(Prior Code, § 111.99) (Ord. 91-11, passed 4-20-1992; Ord. 05-15, passed 6-28-
2005)
CHAPTER 112: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Licenses Generally
   
112.01   Application
   
112.02   Persons subject to licensing; additional licenses
   
112.03   Forms
   
112.04   Signatures
   
112.05   Investigation
   
112.06   Fees
   
112.07   Terminations
   
112.08   Buildings and premises
   
112.09   Change of location
   
112.10   Location requirements; frontage consents
   
112.11   Nuisances
   
112.12   Inspections
   
112.13   Revocation
   
112.14   Posting
   
112.15   Businesses for which license required; schedule of fees
   
112.16   Licensed machine on licensed premises
Specific Businesses
   
112.30   Vehicle repair; auto body shops
   
112.31   Laundromats
   
112.32   Self-service sale of tobacco products
 
   
112.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Business License Fees
LICENSES GENERALLY
§ 112.01 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code or any
other applicable ordinance of the village shall be made in writing to the
Village Clerk, in the absence of provisions to the contrary.
      (1)   Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit
or license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the
fee to be paid.
      (2)   Each application shall contain additional information as may be
needed for the proper guidance of village officials in the issuing of the
permit or license applied for.
   (B)   Applications for business licenses, whether retail or otherwise, shall
state the village code number shown on the applicant’s certificate of
registration issued by the Department of Revenue, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 35, Act
120, § 2a.
      (1)   The Village Clerk shall not issue any business license, whether
retail or otherwise, unless the village code number stated into the applicant’s
application is the same number assigned to the village by the Department of
Revenue.
      (2)   Each application shall contain additional information as may be
needed for the proper guidance of the village officials in issuing the license
applied for.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSING; ADDITIONAL LICENSES.
   (A)   Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance,
operation or conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or
engaging in any activity or occupation, any person, firm or corporation shall
be subject to the requirement if, by himself, herself or through an agent,
employee or partner, he or she holds himself or herself forth as being engaged
in the business or occupation or solicits patronage therefor, actively or
passively, or performs or attempts to perform any part of the business or
occupation in the village.
(Prior Code, § 112.02)
   (B)   (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ADDITIONAL SERVICES. Any business or operation of a business that the
person is seeking to conduct at the same location or on the same premises of
that person’s present business license that is defined by the village’s
municipal code as separate and distinct from and/or a different business than
the person initially received from the village.
         BUSINESS. Any business defined by and recognized by the village’s
municipal code.
      (2)   License required/additional license required. Any person operating
a business within the corporate boundaries of the village must have a business
license licensed issued by the village pursuant to its policies and procedures
for that specifically defined business, unless the business is exempt from
obtaining a local business license pursuant to state statute.
      (3)   Conditions of license.
         (a)   No person shall be eligible for an “additional services”
business license unless the person has a valid and current business license
issued by the Village Board of Trustees.
         (b)   The business that the person is seeking to license must be a
business form currently recognized by the municipal code and is a separately
regulated and licensed business by the code.
         (c)   An additional services license shall only be issued upon
approval of Village Board of Trustees, at its sole discretion.
      (4)   License term. The term of the license shall be one year.
      (5)   License fee. The annual fee for an additional services license
shall be $50.
(Ord. 02-11, passed 4-9-2002)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 FORMS.
   Forms for all license and permits and applications therefor shall be
prepared and kept on file by the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 112.03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 SIGNATURES.
   Each license or permit issued shall bear the signature of the Village
President and Village Clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 112.04) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Within 48 hours of receipt of an application for a license or permit
where the ordinances of the village necessitate an inspection or investigation
before the issuance of the permit or license, the Village Clerk shall refer the
application to the proper officer for making the investigation.
      (1)   The Health Officer shall make or cause to be made an investigation
in regard to licenses in connection with the care and handling of food, the
prevention of nuisances and the spread of disease for the protection of health.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall make or cause to be made any
inspections relative to the construction of buildings or other structures.
      (3)   All other investigations, except where otherwise provided, shall be
made by the Village Chief of Police or some other officer designated by the
Village President.
   (B)   The officer charged with the duty of making an investigation or
inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days
after receiving the application or a copy thereof.
(Prior Code, § 112.05) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 FEES.
   (A)   In the absence of a provision to the contrary, all fees and charges
for licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application
therefor is made to the Village Clerk. Except as otherwise provided, all
license fees shall become a part of the corporate fund.
   (B)   All licenses described in this chapter shall be due May 1 each year
and shall expire April 30 following the date of issuance and, when issued for a
period of less than one year, the fee to be paid shall be the full annual fee
when the license is issued to become effective between May 1 and December 31
and shall be 50% of the full annual fee when issued to become effective between
January 1 and April 30.
(Prior Code, § 112.06) (Ord. 82-8, passed 3-14-1983; Ord. 15-13, passed 12-15-
2015) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 TERMINATIONS.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year
of the village, where no provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall mail to all licensees of the village a
statement of the time of the expiration of the license held by the licensee. In
the case of an annual license, this shall be done three weeks before the date
of expiration. Failure to send out the notice or failure of the licensee to
receive it shall not excuse the licensee from a failure to secure a new license
or a renewal, nor shall it be a defense in action for operation without a
license.
(Prior Code, § 112.07) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 BUILDINGS AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit
shall be issued for any thing or act if the premises and the building to be
used for the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of this code. No
license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of the Zoning Ordinance
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 112.08) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation or of any permitted act
may be changed; provided, ten days’ notice is given the Village Clerk, in the
absence of any provision to the contrary; provided, the building, zoning and
frontage consent requirements of this code are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 112.09) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 LOCATION REQUIREMENTS; FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BLOCK. The portion of the street between two intersections with other
public streets nearest the specified location on each side. If, on either or
both sides of the location, there is no intersection within 300 feet of the
center of the specified location, the BLOCK shall be considered as terminating
at a point 300 feet from the center.
      STREET. Highways that have been dedicated by either common law or
statutory dedication as public streets and are in use as such. STREET shall not
be construed to include or mean merely service highways, which are commonly
known as “alleys”.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall locate, build, construct, operate
or maintain any business or structure of any kind for which frontage consents
are required in any block in the village where a majority of the houses
abutting both sides of the street in the block are used exclusively for
residence purposes without having first secured the written consent of the
owners of a majority of the frontage abutting the street on both sides within
the block.
   (C)   Whenever the consent of adjoining neighboring owners is required as
prerequisite to the conduct of any business or occupation, or the location of
any establishment, the consents must be obtained by securing the necessary
signatures to a written consent petition. The petition shall be filed with the
Village Clerk when signed.
      (1)   Consents once given and filed shall not be withdrawn and the
petitions need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business,
whether by the same proprietor or not.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to forge any name to any petition or to
falsely represent the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if it is
not the fact.
      (3)   Each consent, when filed, shall be accompanied by the affidavit of
the person securing the signatures that each signature appearing therein was
properly secured and written on and that the petition contains the necessary
number of signatures required by ordinance.
   (D)   The frontage consent requires contained in this code shall not be
construed to amend or change any Zoning Ordinance provision of the village and
no provision shall be construed as permitting the erection of a structure or
building or the conduct of a business or the commission of any act in any
location where the structure, building, business or act is or are prohibited by
any Zoning Ordinance of the village.
(Prior Code, § 112.10) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 NUISANCES.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 112.11) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Inspector and Electrical Inspector for the village shall
inspect annually all places and properties conducting and/or operating
businesses within the village.
   (B)   The proprietors of businesses in the village shall be given seven days
to correct violations, if the violations are discovered by the Fire Inspector
and/or Electrical Inspector.
   (C)   Businesses licensed as offices only, beauty shops and barber shops,
medical clinics and other types of service businesses as so determined by the
Board of Trustees shall be excluded from the provisions of this section.
   (D)   An annual inspection fee of $25 shall be required from every business
establishment that is inspected by the Fire Inspector and Electrical Inspector.
   (E)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by this chapter or any other applicable ordinance of the village or are
reasonably necessary thereto to secure compliance with any code or ordinance
provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee
or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected to admit thereto for
the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the village who
is authorized or directed to make the inspection at any reasonable time
admission is requested.
   (F)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any code or ordinance provision or to
detect violations thereof it shall be the duty of the licensee of the village
whose business is governed by the provision to give any authorized officer or
employee of the village requesting sufficient samples of the material or
commodity for the analysis upon request.
   (G)   In addition to any penalty which may be provided, the Village
President and Board of Trustees may revoke the license of any licensed
proprietor or any licensed business in the village who refuses to permit any
officer or employee who is authorized to make the inspection or take the sample
to make the inspection or take an adequate sample of the commodity or who
interferes with the officer or employee while in the performance of his or her
duty in making the inspection; provided, no license shall be revoked for the
cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge of
the premises in the name of the village stating that the inspection or sample
is desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or to obtain the
sample.
(Prior Code, § 112.12) (Ord. 82-6, passed 3-13-1983) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 REVOCATION.
   Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked by the Village
President and Board of Trustees during the life of the license or permit for
the violation by the licensee or permittee of any code or ordinance provisions
relating to the license or permit, the subject of the license or permit or to
the premises occupied. The revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed.
(Prior Code, § 112.13) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14 POSTING.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the premises
used for the business at all times.
(Prior Code, § 112.14) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.15 BUSINESSES FOR WHICH LICENSE REQUIRED; SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any of the businesses named
in division (B) below without first having obtained a license therefor or
without paying the annual license fee provided herein. Applications for the
licenses shall be made in compliance with §§
112.01 through
112.15 of this chapter.
   (B)   The businesses for which a fee is required under the provisions of
this chapter and the annual fee thereof are as set out from time to time by the
village.
   (C)   All business licenses not otherwise listed shall be determined by
Board action.
   (D)    All licenses shall be due May 1 each year and shall expire April 30
following the date of issuance and, when issued for a period of less than one
year, the fee to be paid shall be a proportionate part of the fee fixed by
division (B) above; provided that, no fee shall be less than one-fourth of the
annual fee. Any business owner who has not paid the required fee by May 15
shall pay a late fee equal to 10% of the annual fee charged for that license.
(Prior Code, § 112.15) (Ord. 82-8, passed 3-14-1983; Ord. 93-6, passed 3-21-
1994; Ord. 93-7, passed 4-18-1994; Ord. 95-2, passed 6-19-1995; Ord. 97-18,
passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 03-06, passed 4-8-2003; Ord. 03-14, passed 5-13-2003;
Ord. 04-09, passed 3-23-2004; Ord. 04-10, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 08-05, passed
4-8-2008; Ord. 10-05, passed 3-23-2010; Ord. 11-08, passed 3-22-2011; Ord. 11-
11, passed 4-12-2011; Ord. 19-08, passed 5-14-2019; Ord. 19-18, passed 11-12-
2019) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 LICENSED MACHINE ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   All machines licensed by the village and all other machines located on
premises which are licensed by the village, including, but not limited to,
amusement and pinball machines, cigarette machines, coin-operated washers and
dryers, and vending machines shall be in an area of the premises open to the
general public and shall be subject to visual inspection by employees of the
village.
(Ord. 02-16, passed 4-23-2002)
SPECIFIC BUSINESSES
§ 112.30 VEHICULAR REPAIR; AUTO BODY SHOPS.
   (A)   Limitation of number. There shall be no more than six vehicle repair
shops and three auto body and fender shops in the village.
(Prior Code, § 112.30)
   (B)   Proximity.
      (1)   No license for a body shop shall be issued for a location within
1,000 feet of an existing licensed body shop.
      (2)   No licensee under this section may relocate within 1,000 feet of
any other licensed body shop.
(Prior Code, § 112.31)
   (C)   Body work and painting by licensees of other businesses prohibited. No
business operating within the village under the authority of a business license
other than the business license for a body shop shall be permitted or allowed
to do any body work or painting on any of its vehicles even when the vehicles
are the personal property of the business.
(Prior Code, § 112.32)
(Ord. 77-11, passed 8-12-1977; Ord. 82-8, passed 3-14-1983; Ord. 84-12, passed
12-10-1984; Ord. 90-6, passed 6-11-1990) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.31 LAUNDROMATS.
   The hours of operation of laundromats and any business providing self-
service laundry operations are limited to the hours between 6:00 a.m. and 12:00
midnight daily.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 2-12-2002) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.32 SELF-SERVICE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale or display tobacco products for
sale at any location where the consumer can acquire those products through
self-service. All tobacco products will be displayed from behind a sales/
service counter so that no consumer can access tobacco products without
assistance by an employee of the licensee. This restriction shall not apply to
tobacco vending machines.
(Ord. 02-22, passed 6-11-2002) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter for which no other penalty is set forth shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than $5, nor more than $100, for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, firm, association of persons, business entity or
corporation violating any provision of §
112.02(B) shall be guilty of an offense and subject to a fine of not less than
$100, nor more than $500, per day that the violation exists and/or revocation
of the business license.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
112.12(A), (B), (C) or (D) shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10,
nor more than $500, for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 112.99) (Ord. 82-6, passed 3-14-1983; Ord. 02-11, passed 4-9-
2002)
APPENDIX A: BUSINESS LICENSE FEES
Business License Fees
Type of Business TOB Category Fee Fee 04 Fee 08 Fee 10 Fee 11  Zoning
Business License Fees
Type of Business      TOB  Category       Fee       Fee 04    Fee 08    Fee 10    Fee 11           Zoning
Automobile sales
dealer (used cars     A1   Auto           $260      $750      $800      $800      $800             B-1 SU**
only)
Automobile sales
dealer (used cars     A2   Auto           $475      $500      $550      $550      $550             B-1 SU**
only)
Automobile sales      A3   Auto           $625      $950      $1,000    $1,000    $1,000           B-1 SU**
dealer (new & used)
Automobile sales
dealer (on internet        Auto           $450                                                     B-1
only)
Automobile fender &   A4   Auto           $275                $375      $375      $375             B-1 SU**
body repair
Automobile repair &   A5   Auto           $275                $375      $375      $375             B-1 SU**
engine rebuilding
Automobile car wash   A6   Auto           $210                $310      $310      $310             B-1*
Automobile parts &
accessories, service  A7   Auto                     $200      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
& sales
Vehicle rental        A8   Auto                               $350      $350      $350             B-1*
Trailer sales/rental  A9   Auto           $200      $300      $350      $350      $350             B-1*
Utility trailer       A10  Auto           $175                $225      $225      $225             B-1*
rental
                                                                                            plus
Bowling alley         E1   Entertainment  50 + P/L  250 + P/L $300      $300      $300      per    B1/B2***
                                                                                            lane
Adult entertainment   E2   Entertainment            $1,500    $5,000    $10,000   $12,500          B-2***
Adult book/video      E3   Entertainment            $2,000    $5,000    $10,000   $12,500          B-2***
Pool table operator   E4   Entertainment  $200                $300      $300      $300             B1/B2***
Skating rink          E5   Entertainment  $150                $200      $200      $200             B1/B2***
Entertainment (live)
- entertainment dist. E6   Entertainment  $250                $500      $500      $1,000           B-2***
only
Theater (movie)       E7   Entertainment  $225      $300      $500      $550      $500             B-1*
Head tax for live     E8   Entertainment  $1.75               $1.75     $1.75     $1.75     per    B-2***
entertainment                                                                               person
Dance hall            E9   Entertainment            $250      $500      $500      $1,000           B1/B2***
Bar, taverns and
other drinking        E10  Entertainment  250 + L             $300      $300      $500             B-2***
establishments
Tattoo parlor         E11  Entertainment            $400      $1,000    $1,000    $1,000           B-2***
Carnivals & shows     E12  Entertainment  $200                $400      $400      $400             B-1 SU**
Circus                E13  Entertainment  $200                $400      $400      $400             B-1 SU**
Collection agency     FM1  Finance &      $200                $250      $250      $250             B-1*
                           Money
Currency agency &          Finance &
other similar         FM2  Money          $250      $300      $350      $350      $350             B-1*
services
Loan agency & title   FM3  Finance &      $265      $300      $500      $500      $2,000           B-1*
loans                      Money
Banks, financial      FM4  Finance &      $265      $300      $500      $500      $500             B-1*
institutions               Money
Bakery retail         FL1  Food & Liquor  $200                $250      $250      $250             B-1*
Bakery wholesale      FL2  Food & Liquor  $100                $250      $250      $250             B-1*
Vending - food $
beverage delivery,    FL3  Food & Liquor  $250                $300      $300      $300             B-1*
sales routes
Vending each          FL4  Food & Liquor  $100                $150      $150      $150             B-1*
additional truck
Fruit stand           FL5  Food & Liquor  $550                $600      $600      $600             B-1*
Grocery store,
delicatessen, meats   FL6  Food & Liquor  $200                $400      $400      $400             B-1*
markets
Restaurant sit down/
caterer - no drive    FL7  Food & Liquor  $200                $400      $450      $450             B-1*
thru
Restaurant/liquor -   FL8  Food & Liquor  $250 + L            $300      $400      $400             B-1*
no drive thru
Candy & ice cream     FL9  Food & Liquor            $200      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
store
Restaurant with drive FL10 Food & Liquor            $250      $300      $400      $400             B-1 SU**
thru
Drug store/health     H1   Health         $225                $500      $500      $500             B-1*
food, pharmacy
Animal kennels or     H2   Health         $185      $250      $300      $300      $300             B-1*
hospital
Clinics/health care - H3   Health         $250                $500      $500      $500             B-1*
medical
Optician - sales/     H4   Health                   $250      $300      $300      $300             B-1*
service
Physical culture,
health services,      H5   Health                   $250      $500      $500      $500             B-1 SU**
reducing salon
Machine shop          I1   Industrial     $220                $270      $270      $270             B-1*
Manufacturing,
processing, welding,  I2   Industrial     $200      $250      $400      $400      $400             B-1*
assembly
Manufacturing (over   I3   Industrial     $450                $500      $500      $500             B-1*
25 employees)
Pallet co.            I4   Industrial     $250                $500      $500      $500             B-1*
Precious metal buyer/ I5   Industrial     $250                $500      $500      $2,000           B-1*
gold/silver
Rag and junk          I6   Industrial     Not                 Not       Not       Not              B-1*
collection                                Permitted           Permitted Permitted Permitted
Recycling             I7   Industrial               $250      $500      $500      $500             B-1*
Scavengers            I8   Industrial     $425                $500      $500      $500             B-1*
Warehouse             I9   Industrial     $250                $500      $500      $500             B-1*
Parking lot (that                         .25 per
charges parking fees) M1   Miscellaneous  SF                  $0.25     $0.25     $0.25     per SF B-1*
Ord. 0314
Trailer park - 1 to   M2   Miscellaneous  $240      $500      $550      $600      $600             B-1*
50 trailers
Trailer park - 51 and M3   Miscellaneous  $425      $500      $600      $650      $650             B-1*
up
Vendors (see vending  M4   Miscellaneous  $250                $250      $250      $250             B-1*
mach fee)
Antenna towers - (in
excess of 60 FT in    M5   Miscellaneous            $500      $600      $600      $600             B-1 SU**
height)
Arcades               M6   Miscellaneous                      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
Temporary business
lic (decided by       M7   Miscellaneous  No Charge No Charge No Charge No Charge No Charge        B-1*
inspectors)
Ice cream truck       M8   Not Permitted  Not       Not       Not       Not       Not              B-1*
(prohibited)                              Permitted Permitted Permitted Permitted Permitted
Appliances, appliance R1   Retail         $185      $200      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
parts
Art & gift shop       R2   Retail         $200                $250      $250      $250             B-1*
                                                                                            $100
Building materials                                  $400 Up                                 per
&lumber yards         R3   Retail         $200      P/L       $1,000    $1,000    $1,000    addt.  B-1*
                                                                                            1000
                                                                                            SF
Christmas tree sales  R4   Retail         $50       $100      $100      $150      $150             B-1*
                                                                                            $100
                                                                                            per
Department store      R5   Retail         $500                $500      $500      $500      addt.  B-1*
                                                                                            1000
                                                                                            SF
Electrical supply     R6   Retail         $225                $500      $500      $500             B-1*
Florist               R7   Retail         $200                $250      $250      $250             B-1*
                                                                                            $100
                                                                                            per
Furniture             R8   Retail         $200                $500      $500      $500      addt.  B-1*
                                                                                            1000
                                                                                            SF
                                                                                            $100
General retailer (not                                                                       per
otherwise listed)     R9   Retail         $200                $500      $500      $500      addt.  B-1*
                                                                                            1000
                                                                                            SF
                                                                                            $100
                                                                                            per
Hardware              R10  Retail         $200                $500      $500      $500      addt.  B-1*
                                                                                            1000
                                                                                            SF
Jewelry store/watch   R11  Retail         $175      $200      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
repair
Material yard -
gravel, sand cement,  R12  Retail         $250                $1,000    $1,000    $1,000           B-1*
etc.
Pawnshop              R13  Retail         $2,500              $1,500    $1,600    $1,600           B- 2***
Paint/tile/wallpaper  R14  Retail         $275                $325      $325      $325             B-1*
store
                                                                                            1,000
Audio/video - i.e.                                                                          per
radio, television,    R15  Retail         $250      $300      $500      $500      $500      addt   B-1*
stereo                                                                                      1,000
                                                                                            SF
Phone - sale/service  R16  Retail                   $250      $300      $300      $300             B-1*
Shoes, sales or       R17  Retail         $150                $200      $200      $200             B-1*
repair
Stationary & office   R18  Retail         $200                $250      $250      $250             B-1*
supplies
Storm doors, windows  R19  Retail         $200      $300      $350      $350      $350             B-1*
and screens
Wholesaler            R20  Retail         $250                $500      $500      $500             B-1*
Carpet and rug store  R21  Retail                   $200      $300      $300      $300             B-1*
Clothing              R22  Retail                   $200      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
Coin, stamp & hobby   R23  Retail                   $200      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
stores
Furrier               R24  Retail                   $300      $350      $350      $350             B-1*
Leather goods &       R25  Retail                   $250      $300      $300      $300             B-1*
luggage
Mail order catalog    R26  Retail                   $200      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
store
Orthopedic & medical  R27  Retail                   $250      $500      $500      $500             B-1*
appliance store
Pet shop              R28  Retail                   $250      $500      $500      $500             B-1*
Second hand store     R29  Retail                   $300      $500      $500      $500             B-1*
Sporting goods - not  R30  Retail                   $300      $550      $550      $550             B-1*
including firearms
Tobacco, shop         R31  Retail                   $500      $1,000    $1,000    $1,000           B-1*
Toy store             R32  Retail                   $250      $300      $300      $300             B-1*
Bicycle/motorcycle    R33  Retail                   $250      $500      $500      $500             B-1*
sales & repairs
Book & stationary     R34  Retail                   $200      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
stores
Granite/tile shop     R35  Retail                                       $500      $500             B-1*
Garden supply         R36  Retail                   $250      $500      $500      $500             B-1*
Children’s nursery, S1   Service        $100                $500      $500      $500             B-1 SU**
daycare
Barber/beauty shop/   S2   Service        $100                $200      $200      $200             B-1*
nail salon
Building contractors                                                                        Single
(other than general & S3   Service        $200                $250      $250      $250      trade  B-1*
not listed)
Cleaners/laundry      S4   Service        $185                $300      $300      $300             B-1*
Dance or music school S5   Service        $135                $200      $200      $200             B-1*
Electrical service    S6   Service        $200                $300      $300      $300             B-1*
Exterminator          S7   Service        $200                $300      $300      $300             B-1*
Furniture repair and  S8   Service        $200                $250      $250      $250             B-1*
upholstering
General contractor    S9   Service        $250      $300      $500      $500      $500             B-1*
Hotel (see motel)     S10  Service        $275                $500      $500      $500             B-1*
Landscaping           S11  Service        $250      $300      $350      $350      $350             B-1*
contractor
Laundromat            S12  Service        $250                $350      $350      $350             B-1*
Motel (health                                                                               plus
inspection required)  S13  Service        $275      500 + PR  $550      $550      $550      per    B-1*
                                                                                            room
Motel plus per room   S13  Service        $10       $20       $25       $25       $25              B-1*
fee
Outdoor display &
sales (attachment to  S14  Service        $500                $700      $700      $700             B-1 SU**
building)
Printer, photographer S15  Service        $225                $275      $275      $275             B-1*
Real estate office    S16  Service        $220                $500      $500      $500             B-1*
Signs (printing,      S17  Service        $200                $500      $500      $500             B-1*
erecting)
Tailor shop           S18  Service        $150                $200      $200      $200             B-1*
Taxicab/bus (plus
vehicle sticker for   S19  Service        $225                $275      $275      $275             B-1*
each veh)
Employment agency     S20  Service                  $200      $300      $300      $300             B-1*
Water softener        S21  Service        $225                $275      $275      $275             B-1*
service
Blueprinting &        S22  Service                  $250      $300      $300      $300             B-1*
copying
Camera & photographic S23  Service                  $200      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
supply store
Schools - private,
public (registration  S24  Service        N/C       N/C       N/C       N/C       N/C              B-1*
required)
Locksmith shop        S25  Service                  $200      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
Ticket agency (ex.    S26  Service                  $250      $300      $300      $300             B-1*
Ticketmaster)
Travel agency         S27  Service                  $200      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
Video rental          S28  Service                  $200      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
Roofing contractor    S29  Service                  $200      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
HVAC sales/service    S30  Service                  $200      $250      $250      $250             B-1*
Security co.          S31  Service                  $250      $300      $300      $300             B-1*
Civic building        S32  Service                  $200      $250      $250      $250             B1/B2***
Professional
services/business     S33  Service        $100                $100      $100      $100             B-1*
office
Funeral parlor/       S34  Service                  $500      $1,000    $1,000    $1,000           B-1 SU**
undertaking
Catage co. (sticker   T1   Transportation $250                $300      $300      $300             B-1*
per vehicle)
Gasoline service      T2   Transportation $200                $300      $300      $300             B-1*
station
Gasoline service
station/convenience   T3   Transportation $300      $500      $550      $550      $550             B-1*
mart
Towing                T4   Transportation $250                $300      $300      $300             B-1*
Jukebox                    Additionals    $75                 $75       $75       $75              Additionals****
Pool tables                Additionals    $85                 $85       $85       $85              Additionals****
Coin operated
amusement (video           Additionals    $200                $200      $200      $200             Additionals****
games)
Coin operated              Additionals    $75                 $75       $75       $75              Additionals****
amusement (non-video)
Coin operated              Additionals    $100                $100      $100      $100             Additionals****
cigarette machine
Cigarettes sold over       Additionals    $85                 $85       $85       $85              Additionals****
the counter
Signage (per sign)         Additionals    $75                 $75       $75       $75              Additionals****
Coin operated gun/         Additionals                        $20       $20       $20              Additionals****
candy (single unit)
 
Additionals
Type of Business TOB Category Fee Fee 04 Fee 08 Fee10 Fee 11  Zoning
Additionals
Type of         TOB Category    Fee Fee  Fee  Fee10 Fee         Zoning
Business                            04   08         11
Coin operated
gun/candy (2 to     Additionals          $40  $40   $40         Additionals****
4 units)
Coin operated
vending (food/      Additionals     $75  $75  $75   $75         Additionals****
beverage)
Coin operated
vending             Additionals     $50  $50  $50   $50         Additionals****
(miscellaneous)
Coin operated
vending             Additionals     $50  $50  $50   $50         Additionals****
(Service ) (1 -
10)
Coin operated
vending             Additionals     $100 $100 $100  $100        Additionals****
(Service ) (20
- 30)
Coin operated
vending             Additionals     $200 $200 $200  $200        Additionals****
(Service ) (30
& up)
Plus per nozzle     Additionals $15 $25  $25  $25   $25         Additionals****
(gas stations)
Coin operated
washers/dryers      Additionals     $50  $50  $50   $50         Additionals****
( 1- 20)
Coin operated
washers/dryers      Additionals     $75  $75  $75   $75         Additionals****
(21 - 30)
Coin operated
washers/dryers      Additionals     $100 $100 $100  $100        Additionals****
(31 - 40)
Coin operated
washers/dryers      Additionals     $150 $150 $150  $150        Additionals****
(41 & up)
Buildings with
over a base SF      Additionals          $100 $100  $100        Additionals****
of 5,000
                    Additionals                                 Additionals****
                                                         ea.
                    Additionals                          addtl. Additionals****
                                                         1,000
                                                         SF
 
 
Out of Town Licenses
Type of       TOB Category Fee  Fee 04 Fee 08 Fee 10 Fee 11              Zoning
Business
Out of town
business
license;          OT       $100        $100   $100   $100   single trade
annual (other
not listed)
Vending           OT       $75         $100   $100   $100
Specialty
contractor -      OT       $75         $100   $100   $100
bond &
insurance
General
contractor -      OT       $250        $300   $300   $300
bond &
insurance
Waste Haulers     OT       $425        $525   $525   $525
 
 
Business License Fees/Additionals
Zoning Key:
B-1 Permitted use: *
B-1 Special use: **
B-2: Purple: ***
Additionals: ****
Liquor license fees are not included in business license fees
Refer to the zoning ordinance for definitions
 
(Ord. 04-09, passed 3-23-2004; Ord. 08-05, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 10-05, passed
3-23-2010; Ord. 11-08, passed 3-22-2011; Ord. 14-05, passed 3-25-2014; Ord. 14-
06, passed 4-8-2014; Ord. 16-10, passed 5-24-2016)
CHAPTER 113: MASSAGE SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Facilities
   
113.03   Operating requirements
   
113.04   Advertising
   
113.05   Out-call registration
   
113.06   Inspection
   
113.07   Employment
Business Licenses and Permits
   
113.20   Required; exception
   
113.21   Application procedure; fee
   
113.22   Contents of application
   
113.23   Duty of Administrative Official
   
113.24   Term; renewal
   
113.25   Revocation or suspension
   
113.26   Transfer
   
113.27   Display
Masseur and Masseuse Permits
   
113.40   Permit; application procedure
   
113.41   Contents of application
   
113.42   Issuance
   
113.43   Term
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL. The Village President, or the President’s
authorized representative.
   EMPLOYEE. Any and all persons other than masseurs or masseuses who render
any service for the licensee and who receive compensation directly from the
licensee, but have no physical contact with customers or clients.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. See ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.
   LICENSEE. The operator of a massage establishment.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on, friction against, stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, bathing, touching, binding, painting, irritating or
stimulating of external soft parts of the body with hands or the aid of manual,
mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance with or without such aids as
rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptic oils, powder, creams, lotions, soaps,
ointments or other similar preparations commonly used in this practice.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment having its place of business where
any person, firm, association or corporation engages in, carries on or permits
to be engaged in or carried on any of the activities contained in the
definition above for MASSAGE.
   MASSAGE SERVICES. The providing of a massage or massages by any person,
firm, association or corporation.
   MASSEUR, MASSEUSE. Any person who, for any consideration, engages in the
practice of massage.
   PERSON. Any individual, co-partnership, firm, association, joint stock
company, corporation or any combination of individuals of whatever form or
character.
   SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA. The genitals, pubic areas, buttocks, anus or
perineum of any person or the breasts or vulva of a female.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 113.02 FACILITIES.
   No massage establishment shall receive a permit or be operated, established
or maintained unless the establishment shall comply with each of the following
minimum regulations.
   (A)   All massage tables, bath tubs, shower stalls, bath areas and floors
shall have surfaces which may be readily disinfected.
   (B)   Separate bathing, dressing, locker, toilet, massage room facilities
shall be provided for female and male patrons so they may be served
simultaneously in the event patrons of both sexes are permitted.
   (C)   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting non-
disposable instruments and materials used in administering massages. Non-
disposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected after use on each
patron.
   (D)   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations. When five
or more employees or patrons of different sexes are on the premises at the same
time, separate facilities shall be provided. Lavatories or wash basins shall be
provided with both hot and cold running water and shall be installed in either
the toilet room or vestibule. Lavatories or wash basins shall be provided with
soap and a dispenser and with sanitary towels.
   (E)   Closed cabinets shall be provided for use in the storage of clean
linens, towels and other materials shall be kept in properly covered containers
or cabinets which shall be kept separate from the clean storage areas.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated under sanitary conditions.
   (B)   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted in the
reception area in a location available to all prospective customers.
   (C)   All employees, including masseurs and masseuses, shall wear clean,
non-transparent outer garments covering the sexual and genital areas and the
outer garments shall be restricted in use to the massage establishment.
   (D)   A separate dressing room for each sex must be available on the
premises, with individual lockers for each employee, masseur and masseuse.
   (E)   Doors to the dressing rooms shall open inward and be self-closing.
   (F)   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity and shall be laundered after each use
and stored in a sanitary manner.
   (G)   The sexual or genital areas of the patrons must be covered with
towels, clothes or undergarments when in the presence of an employee, masseur
or masseuse.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person in a massage establishment to
place his or her hand upon or touch with any part of his or her body or fondle
in any manner or to massage a sexual or genital area of any person.
   (I)   No masseur or masseuse, employee or licensee, shall perform, offer or
agree to perform any act which shall require the touching of the patron’s
genital area.
   (J)   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, baths and steam rooms and
any other physical facilities shall be in good repair and maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition.
   (K)   Oils, creams, lotions and other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean, closed containers or cabinets.
   (L)   A register shall be maintained listing all patrons served and shall
contain the name and address of each patron. This register shall be available
for inspection to the respective village agencies herein mentioned.
   (M)   No masseur or masseuse shall administer massage to a patron exhibiting
any skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation or skin eruption, unless a
physician duly licensed by the state certifies in writing that the person may
be safely massaged, describing the conditions under which the massage may be
performed.
   (N)   Each masseur or masseuse shall wash his or her hands in hot, running
water using a proper soap or disinfectant before administering any massage to
any patron.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 ADVERTISING.
   No massage establishment holding a licensed under this chapter shall place,
publish, distribute or cause to be placed, published or distributed any
advertising matter that depicts any portion of the human body that would
reasonably suggest to prospective patrons that any services are available other
than those permitted by this chapter, or which would reasonably suggest that
employees, masseurs or masseuses are dressed in any manner other than that
permitted by this chapter, and all advertisements shall contain the number of
the village licensed held by the massage establishment.
(Prior Code, § 113.04) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 113.05 OUT-CALL REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Any masseur or masseuse who provides any of the services provided in
this chapter at any hotel or motel first must register his or her name and
permit number with the owner, manager or person in charge of the hotel or
motel.
   (B)   No out-call massage service may be operated other than by a licensed
establishment and each out-call massage service must be performed within the
manner provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.05) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Village Health Officer and Police Department shall, from time to
time and at least twice a year, inspect each massage establishment granted a
license under the provisions of this chapter for the purpose of determining
that the provisions of this chapter are complied with.
   (B)   The inspection shall be made at reasonable times and in a reasonable
manner.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to fail to allow the Inspection
Officer access to the premises or to hinder the Officer in any manner.
(Prior Code, § 113.06) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 EMPLOYMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, proprietor, manager or other
persons in charge of any massage establishment to employ any person who is not
at least 25 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 113.07) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
BUSINESS LICENSES AND PERMITS
§ 113.20 REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on or to
permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on upon any premises in the
village the operation of a massage establishment as defined in §
113.01 without first having obtained a license from the village after the
approval of the Administrative Official.
(Prior Code, § 113.20) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.21 APPLICATION PROCEDURE; FEE.
   (A)   Every applicant for a permit to maintain, operate or conduct a massage
establishment shall file an application in duplicate, under oath, with the
Village Clerk and pay a non-refundable fee of $100 to the Clerk, who shall
issue a receipt which shall be attached to the application filed.
      (1)   The Clerk, within 15 days thereafter, shall refer copies of the
applications and all additional information to the Health Office, Fire
Department, Building Department and Administrative Official. The village
agencies shall, within 45 days, inspect the premises proposed to be operated as
a massage establishment and make recommendations to the Administrative Official
concerning compliance with the codes of the village.
       (2)   Upon receipt of the recommendations of the respective agencies,
the Administrative Official shall notify the applicant whether the application
has been granted, denied or held for further investigation. The period of the
additional investigation shall not exceed an additional 30 days unless
otherwise agreed to by the applicant. The Administrative Official shall advise
the applicant in writing as to whether the application has been granted or
denied. If the application is denied or held for further investigation, the
Administrative Official shall advise the applicant in writing of the reason for
the refusal.
   (B)   The failure or refusal of the applicant to promptly give any
information relevant to the investigation of the application or the refusal or
failure of the applicant to appear at any reasonable time and place for
examination under oath regarding the application, or the refusal of the
applicant to submit to or cooperate with any inspection required by this
section shall be grounds for denial of the application.
(Prior Code, § 113.21) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.22 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a license to operate a massage establishment shall
set forth the exact nature of the massage to be administered and the proposed
place and facilities therefor.
   (B)   Any applicant for a license and each partner or limited partner of an
applicant, if a partnership applicant, and each officer and director of a
corporate applicant holding more than 10% of the corporate applicant, shall
furnish the following information:
      (1)   Written proof each person is at least 25 years of age;
      (2)   All residential addresses for the past three years;
      (3)   The business, occupation or employment of each individual for the
three years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (4)   The previous experience of the person in the massage business or a
similar business;
      (5)   Whether the person has had any license for a massage establishment
denied, revoked or suspended in the village or any other city or state, the
reason therefor and the business activity or occupation of the person, before
the suspension, revocation or denial;
      (6)   Any conviction, forfeiture of bond, nolo contendere plea upon any
criminal violation or village ordinance, except minor traffic violations,
within a five-year period; and
      (7)   If the applicant is a corporation, partner of any partnership in a
corporation, the name of the corporation shall be set forth exactly as shown in
the articles of incorporation, together with the state of incorporation and
proof of authority to do business in the state.
(Prior Code, § 113.22) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.23 DUTY OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.
   Upon receipt of the materials described in §§
113.21 and
113.22, the Administrative Official shall direct the Village Clerk to issue to
the applicant a license to engage in, conduct or carry on a massage
establishment, unless the Official finds:
   (A)   The operation of the massage establishment as proposed by the
applicant, if permitted, would not comply with the applicable laws of this
state and the village, including, but not limited to, the Building, Health,
Planning, Housing, Fire Prevention and Zoning Codes and any other applicable
ordinances of the village;
   (B)   The applicant or any other person who shall be directly or indirectly
engaged in the management and operation of the massage establishment has been
convicted of:
      (1)   A felony;
      (2)   An offense involving sexual misconduct with children; and/or
      (3)   Any provision of ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 11-6 through 11-22.
   (C)   The operation of the massage establishment as proposed by the
applicant, if permitted, would violate the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.23) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.24 TERM; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The licenses provided for in this chapter shall be for an initial term
ending April 30 next following the issuance of the license, unless sooner
suspended or revoked.
   (B)   The license shall be renewed annually and any renewal shall be for a
term of one year, from May 1 to April 30.
(Prior Code, § 113.24) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.25 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   (1)   Any license issued for a massage establishment may be revoked or
suspended by the Administrative Official.
      (2)   The Official shall give the licensee at least 15 days’ written
notice of the charges and an opportunity for a public hearing before the
Official, at which time the licensee may present evidence bearing upon the
question.
   (B)   Cause for revocation or suspension shall include violation of the
provisions of this chapter or of any criminal statute of the state by the
applicant, or by any employee of the licensee or any masseuse or masseur
employed by the licensee.
   (C)   Violation of this chapter or any criminal law of the state shall not
be a cause for revocation or suspension unless the licensee shall have had
actual or constructive knowledge of the violations in the exercise of due
diligence.
   (D)   It also shall be cause for revocation or suspension that the applicant
has made a false statement on any application for permit under this chapter or
in the event the licensee shall refuse to permit any authorized Police Officer
or authorized member of the Police Department, Building Department, Fire
Department or the Health Officer to inspect the premises or operations thereof
at reasonable times.
(Prior Code, § 113.25) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.26 TRANSFER.
   No permits for the operation of a massage establishment shall be
transferable except with the written consent of the Administrative Official;
provided, upon the death or incapacity of the licensee, the massage
establishment may continue in business for a reasonable period of time to
permit an orderly transfer of the license to the personal representative of the
licensee or to a transferee of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 113.26) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.27 DISPLAY.
   Each licensee shall display a valid current permit in a conspicuous place
within the massage establishment so the permit can be readily seen by patrons
entering the establishment.
(Prior Code, § 113.27) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
MASSEUR AND MASSEUSE PERMITS
§ 113.40 PERMIT; APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person who engages in the practice of massage, as defined in §
113.01 of this chapter, shall file an application for a permit as a masseur or
masseuse.
   (B)   The application shall be filed with the Village Clerk upon a form
provided by the Clerk.
   (C)   The applicant shall pay to the Clerk a non-refundable filing fee of
$25 for the original application and $25 for each renewal application. The
Clerk shall issue a receipt which shall be attached to the application filed
with the village.
(Prior Code, § 113.40) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.41 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   The application for a permit for a masseur or masseuse shall contain the
following:
   (A)   Name and residence;
   (B)   Social Security number;
   (C)   Written evidence the applicant is at least 25 years of age;
   (D)   Business, occupation or employment of the applicant for three years
immediately before the date of application;
   (E)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of, pleaded nolo
contendere to or suffered forfeiture of a bond on a charge of committing any
violation of this code or any other ordinances of the village or state
statutes, except minor traffic violations. In the event any answer is in the
affirmative, the applicant shall state the place and court in which the
conviction, plea or forfeiture was had, the specific charge and the sentence
imposed; and
   (F)   Physical examinations.
      (1)   The applicant shall undergo a physical examination and present the
written results thereof for contagious and communicable diseases, which shall
include a recognized blood test for syphilis, a culture for gonorrhea and a
test or tests which demonstrate freedom from tuberculosis.
         (a)   Each test shall have been made by a licensed physician and all
laboratory tests shall be in laboratories approved by the village.
         (b)   The applicant shall present a certificate with the results of
each examination by a signed physician licensed in the state stating that the
person examined is either free from any contagious disease or is incapable of
communicating any disease to others.
      (2)   Each applicant shall undergo the physical examination provided in
this division (F) before starting employment and at least once each 12 months
thereafter.
      (3)   Exempt from the provisions of this division (F) is any person
registered as a physical therapist by the state under ILCS Ch. 225, Act 90, §§
2 et seq., which person also shall not be required to obtain a permit as a
masseur or masseuse.
(Prior Code, § 113.41) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.42 ISSUANCE.
   The Administrative Official shall direct the issuance by the Village Clerk
of a permit for a masseur or masseuse within 21 days following the application
and the providing of all information required by this chapter, unless the
Official finds the applicant has been convicted of a felony, an offense
involving sexual misconduct with children or any violation of ILCS Ch. 720, Act
5, §§ 11-6 through 11-22, or unless the Official finds the applicant has failed
to provide all the information and certificates required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.42) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.43 TERM.
   (A)   Each permit for a masseur or masseuse, pursuant to this chapter, shall
terminate on April 30 next following its issuance.
   (B)   Renewal shall be for a one-year term commencing May 1 and ending April
30 and shall be carried by the permit holder while engaged in employment.
(Prior Code, § 113.43) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any section of this
chapter for which no other penalty is set forth shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than $100, nor more than $500, for the first offense and not
less than $200, nor more than $500, for the second offense and shall be
punished as a misdemeanor for each subsequent offense by incarceration in the
County Jail for a term not to exceed six months under procedures set forth in
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1, as amended, or by both fine and imprisonment,
with the exception described in division (B) below.
   (B)   Any violation of §
113.03(C), (G), (H) or (I) shall be a misdemeanor punishable by incarceration
in the County Jail for a term of not less than five days and not more than six
months.
(Prior Code, § 113.99) (Ord. 75-1, passed 6-9-1975)
CHAPTER 114: NUDITY; INDECENCY; OBSCENITY
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Prohibited acts
   
114.03   Indecency
   
114.04   Obscenity
   
114.05   Minors
   
114.06   Accountability
   
114.07   Publications
Licenses
   
114.20   Required
   
114.21   Application
   
114.22   Restrictions on issuance
   
114.23   Transfer
   
114.24   Fees
   
114.25   Limitation
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDECENCY. Nudity, exposure of breasts, exposure of the genital area, dress
which does not fully cover genitals, lewd or indecent gestures or any other
activity constituting a lewd, filthy or indecent act.
   MATERIAL HARMFUL TO MINORS.
      (1)   Material which the average person, applying contemporary standards,
has as its predominant appeal, when taken as a whole, an appeal to prurient
interest, that is, shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex or excretion,
which goes substantially beyond customary limits of candor in description or
representation of those matters, and is material the redeeming social value of
which is substantially less than its prurient appeal.
      (2)   Material which displays nudity, exposed breasts or the genital area
of a person or which contains a message that it is for adult reading or view is
prima facie MATERIAL HARMFUL TO MINORS.
   OBSCENITY. Acts, words or materials which, if considered as a whole, appeal
predominantly to prurient interests, that is, a shameful or morbid interest in
nudity, sex or excretion, and which goes substantially beyond the customary
limits of candor in description or representation of those matters; materials
the redeeming social importance of which is substantially less than its
prurient appeal.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any location where persons congregate, whether admission is
charged or not; any place open to the public, generally.
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 73-9, passed 2-11-1974) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to present,
exhibit, conduct or take part in any indecent show, theatrical, play, motion
picture, exhibition or other form of amusement or show.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 INDECENCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit, participate in or permit on
any premises under the control of the person any act of indecency, as defined
in §
114.01.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) (Ord. 73-9, passed 2-11-1974) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 OBSCENITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit, sell, print, offer
to sell, give away, circulate, publish, distribute or attempt to distribute any
obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, writing card, advertising, circular,
print, picture, photograph, image, instrument, drawing or other article which
is obscene, as defined in §
114.01.
(Prior Code, § 114.04) (Ord. 73-9, passed 2-11-1974) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 MINORS.
   (A)   No license issued under this chapter shall authorize any viewing by
any person under 21 years of age unless the person is accompanied by a parent
or guardian; both the licensee and the minor may be found guilty of a
misdemeanor for violation of this division (A).
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person who, with the knowledge that
a person is under 18 years or age or who fails to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the true age of a child, distributes to, sends or causes to be
sent to, exhibits to, offers to distribute or exhibit any material harmful to
minors.
      (2)   Material harmful to minors shall not be exhibited or displayed in
any public place; the display shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to falsify one’s age to view or obtain
material harmful to minors.
(Prior Code, § 114.05) (Ord. 73-9, passed 2-11-1974; Ord. 73-10, passed 2-11-
1974) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 ACCOUNTABILITY.
   (A)   Any person participating in any way in any scheme that violates a
provision of this chapter shall be held accountable as a principal.
   (B)   This shall include all partners, whether present or not; all corporate
officers, whether present or not and all managerial employees.
   (C)   The property owner shall be deemed liable only when put on notice of
the violation.
(Prior Code, § 114.06) (Ord. 73-9, passed 2-11-1974) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 PUBLICATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale or to circulate, pass
from one person to another or expose in any public place or anywhere in view of
a store or place frequented by the public any immoral, indecent or obscene
publications, printed or written matter or picture or other representation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep any publication, printed or written
matter, picture or other representation in any place frequented by or where it
may come into possession of minors or to disclose or expose any such material
to a minor.
(Prior Code, § 114.07) Penalty, see §
114.99
LICENSES
§ 114.20 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate, conduct or stage shows or performances
containing nudity or which expose the breasts or genitals of any person without
first having obtained a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 114.15) (Ord. 73-10, passed 2-11-1974) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 APPLICATION.
   Applications for the license required in §
114.20 shall be made to the Village President in writing, signed by the
applicant, if an individual, or by the duly authorized agent thereof, if a firm
or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following
statements and information:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual, the persons entitled to a share in profits in the case of a co-
partnership and the objects for which organized, the names and addresses of the
officers and directors and, if a majority interest of the stock of the
corporation is owned by one person or a nominee, the name and address of the
nominee, in the case of a corporation;
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, the applicant’s place of birth and,
if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of the applicant’s naturalization;
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant and, in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
   (D)   The length of time the applicant has been in business of that
character or in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was
issued;
   (E)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under the license;
   (F)   A statement whether the applicant has applied for a similar or other
license on premises other than those described in this application and the
disposition of the application;
   (G)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a crime and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter or any village ordinances or in the Illinois Compiled
Statutes;
   (H)   A statement the applicant, in conducting his or her place of business,
will not violate any of the laws of the village, state or nation;
   (I)   All license applications shall include, on forms and in the manner
prescribed by the Village President, the fingerprints of the persons described
in division (A) of this section and each performer; and
   (J)   All applications shall contain a processing fee of $10 for each person
who is to be fingerprinted. No processing shall be commenced without the fee
being paid.
(Prior Code, § 114.16) (Ord. 73-10, passed 2-11-1974; Ord. 73-10A, passed 4-8-
1974) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.22 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   No license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the village;
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation or who has been
convicted of criminal offenses;
   (C)   A person employing persons as performers who are not of good character
and reputation or who have been convicted of criminal offenses;
   (D)   A person who has had a license revoked by the village;
   (E)   A person who has not reached 21 years of age; and/or
   (F)   A corporation, except when:
      (1)   The corporation is a resident for more than one year before making
application;
      (2)   The chief executive officer or manager of operations is a resident
of the village for more than one year before making application; and/or
      (3)   The corporation is in compliance with divisions (B), (C) and (D) of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 114.17) (Ord. 73-10, passed 2-11-1974; Ord. 73-10A, passed 4-8-
1974) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.23 TRANSFER.
   No license issued under this chapter is transferable, nor may it be used at
any other location.
(Prior Code, § 114.18) (Ord. 73-10, passed 2-11-1974) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.24 FEES.
   The fee for a license to operate a business that will operate, conduct or
state shows or performing involving nudity shall be as set by Council from time
to time. The cost of special protection, should it be deemed necessary, shall
be added.
(Prior Code, § 114.19) (Ord. 73-10, passed 2-11-1974) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.25 LIMITATION.
   Persons holding a license permitting the staging of shows containing nudity
shall be exempt from this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.20) (Ord. 73-9, passed 2-11-1974) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter for
which no other penalty is set forth shall, upon conviction, be fined not less
than $100, nor more than $500, and may be imprisoned for a period not to exceed
six months. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provisions of §
114.02 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10, nor more than $100,
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 114.99) (Ord. 73-9, passed 2-11-1974; Ord. 73-10, passed 2-11-
1974)
CHAPTER 115: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS; ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
Peddlers and For-Profit Solicitors
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Certificate of registration required
   
115.03   Licenses
   
115.04   Fraud and misrepresentation
   
115.05   Time restrictions
   
115.06   Noise
   
115.07   Admission to residences
Charitable Not-for-Profit Solicitors
   
115.20   Definitions
   
115.21   Permit required; exceptions
   
115.22   Application for permits; contents
   
115.23   Investigation and approval
   
115.24   Issuance
   
115.25   Term; renewal
   
115.26   Non-transferable
   
115.27   Revocation
   
115.28   Professional promoters
   
115.29   Reports
Itinerant Merchants
   
115.40   License required
   
115.41   Application
   
115.42   Fees
 
   
115.99   Penalty
PEDDLERS AND FOR-PROFIT SOLICITORS
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. See SOLICITOR.
   PEDDLER. Any person not having any specific place of business in the village
show shall sell or offer for sale, barter or exchange at retail any goods,
wares or merchandise, except milk or cream, traveling from place to place in,
along and upon the streets, alleys or public places of the village or who,
going from place to place in the village shall sell and deliver from any
vehicle, whether to regular customers or not, any goods, wares or merchandise,
except milk or cream.
   RESIDENCE. Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING. Any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description for any
consideration;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application for
purchase of insurance of any type, kind or character; or
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who, without having a specific place of business in
the village, is engaged in the business of calling from house to house and
soliciting orders for any kind of goods, wares, merchandise or services.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990)
§ 115.02 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every person desiring to engage in peddling or soliciting from persons in
residences within the village is hereby required to make written application
for a license to peddle or solicit, which shall include the following.
   (A)   An application for a license to peddle or solicit shall be filed with
the Village Clerk. The application shall truthfully state in full the
information requested, to wit:
      (1)   The name and address of the present place of residence and length
of residence at the address, business address and Social Security number;
      (2)   Address and place of residence during the past three years if other
than the present address;
      (3)   Name and address of the person, firm, corporation or association
the applicant is employed by or represents and the length of time of the
employment or representation;
      (4)   Description sufficient for identification of the goods, wares and
merchandise the applicant desires and intends to sell;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is applied for;
      (6)   Whether a license issued to the applicant under this subchapter has
ever been revoked;
      (7)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this subchapter or an ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting;
      (8)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of
a felony under the laws of this or any other state or law of the United States;
and
      (9)   Additional information as the Village Clerk or Board of Trustees
may deem necessary to process the application.
   (B)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
   (C)   The Clerk shall cause to be kept an accurate record of every
application received and acted upon, together with all other information and
data pertaining thereto and all licenses issued under the provision of this
subchapter and of the denial of applications.
(Prior Code, § 115.02) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990)
§ 115.03 LICENSES.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of peddler, solicitor or
canvasser in the village without first having obtained a license permit
therefor.
   (B)   When the applicant is fully qualified, the license shall be issued
forthwith.
   (C)   The Village Board of Trustees, after consideration of the application
and all information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if
the applicant does not possess the qualifications for the license as required
in this subchapter and that the issuance of a license to the applicant would
not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this subchapter.
   (D)   No license shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of a
commission of a felony under the laws of this or any other state or law of the
United States within five years of the date of the application; nor to any
person who has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
subchapter, nor to any person whose license issued hereunder has been revoked
previously.
   (E)   The fee for licenses under this subchapter shall be $250 per permit.
(Prior Code, § 115.03) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990)
§ 115.04 FRAUD AND MISREPRESENTATION.
   Any person licensed under this subchapter who shall be guilty of any fraud,
misrepresentation or imposition either directly or through the agency of
another person, while acting as a peddler, solicitor or canvasser, or who shall
sell or offer for sale, barter or exchange by himself, herself or any other
person, any kind of goods, wares, merchandise or articles other than that
specified in the license shall be subject to a fine.
(Prior Code, § 115.04) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 TIME RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful and a nuisance for any person, whether registered under this
subchapter or not, to go upon any premises to ring the door bell upon or near
any door of a residence, or rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in
any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant to the
residence for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant and engage
in soliciting or peddling, as defined in §
115.01 of this chapter, before 9:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m. of any week day, or
at any time on a Sunday, state or national holiday.
(Prior Code, § 115.05) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 NOISE.
   No person, whether a holder of a peddler’s license or not, in going along
the streets, alleys or public places of the village or in such close proximity
thereto as to be audible shall call out, cry or use or operate any whistle,
bell, horn, radio, phonograph or other sound-making device for the purpose of
advertising any goods, wares or merchandise for sale, barter or exchange or of
inviting the patronage of any person to do any business.
(Prior Code, § 115.06) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07 ADMISSION TO RESIDENCES.
   Occupants of the residences in the village shall make the determination of
whether solicitors or peddlers shall or shall not be invited to their
residences.
(Prior Code, § 115.07) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990)
CHARITABLE NOT-FOR-PROFIT SOLICITORS
§ 115.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE NOT FOR-PROFIT. Patriotic, philanthropic, religious, social
service, welfare, benevolent, educational, civic or factional, either actual or
purported.
   PROFESSIONAL PROMOTER. A person who, for compensation, plans, promotes,
conducts, manages or carries on or attempts to plan, promote, conduct, manage
or carry on any drive or campaign for the purpose of soliciting contributions
for or on behalf of any charitable not-for-profit person; a person who engages
in the business of soliciting contributions for a charitable not-for-profit
purpose. A bona fide officer or regular employee of a charitable not-for-profit
person shall not be deemed a PROFESSIONAL PROMOTER by reason of his or her
participation in a charitable-not-for-profit solicitation may be or on behalf
of his or her employer.
   PROFESSIONAL SOLICITOR. A person other than a professional promoter who is
employed or retained for compensation to make solicitations in connection with
a charitable not-for-profit solicitation. A bona fide officer or regular
employee of a charitable not-for-profit person shall not be deemed a
PROFESSIONAL SOLICITOR by reason of his or her participation in charitable not-
for-profit solicitations made by or on behalf of his or her employer.
   SOLICIT; SOLICITATIONS. The request, directly or indirectly, for money or
financial assistance on the plea or representation that the money or financial
assistance will be used for a charitable not-for-profit purpose within the
above definition of “charitable not-for-profit”.
(Prior Code, § 115.15) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990)
§ 115.21 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall solicit, directly or indirectly, money, donations of
money, property or financial assistance of any kind or sell or offer to sell
any article, tag, service, emblem, publication, ticket, advertisement,
subscription or anything of value on the plea or representation that the sale,
solicitation or proceeds thereof is for a charitable not-for-profit purpose on
the streets, in any office building or business building, by house-to-house
canvass or in any other public or private place, by telephone, personal
solicitation, by mail or in any other way unless the person first has obtained
a permit as provided for in this section.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply when the solicitation
may be in the form of collections or contributions at the regular exercise or
services of any church, religious society, lodge, benevolent order or
fraternity or similar organization or any branch thereof.
(Prior Code, § 115.16) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.22 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS; CONTENTS.
   (A)   A written application for a permit to solicit shall be subscribed and
sworn to by the president or other chief officer of the not-for-profit
organization making the application and filed with the Village Clerk 15 days
before the time when a permit is desired.
   (B)   The application, which shall be referred to the Village Board of
Trustees, shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name of the not-for-profit organization applying for a permit to
solicit and the address of its headquarters;
      (2)   Names and addresses of its principal officers and management;
      (3)   The purpose for which the solicitation is to be made and the use or
disposition to be made of any receipts;
      (4)   The tax identification number issued by the Internal Revenue
Service classifying the status of the application as not-for-profit and exempt;
      (5)   The name of the person by whom the receipts of the solicitation
shall be disbursed and, if there are any participating organizations, the names
and employer identification numbers of the participating organizations and the
names of officers and employees disbursing the receipts for the participating
organizations;
      (6)   The name and address of the person who will be in direct charge of
conducting the solicitation;
      (7)   An outline of the method to be used in conducting the solicitation;
      (8)   The time when the solicitations shall be made, giving the proposed
dates for the beginning and ending of the solicitation;
      (9)   A statement of the character and extent of the charitable,
religious, educational or philanthropic work being done by the application
organization; and
      (10)   A statement representing to the village that no solicitation shall
be conducted or attempted at any residence, office, business or establishment
or upon any individual who makes it known, by sign, statement or otherwise that
no solicitation is invited.
(Prior Code, § 115.17) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990)
§ 115.23 INVESTIGATION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for permit under this subchapter, the
Village Board of Trustees may make or cause to be made by any investigation the
Board shall deem necessary in order to determine the proposed solicitation is
to be conducted for a purpose permitted hereunder and that the proceeds from
the solicitation shall be so used.
   (B)   The Board may approve an application and certify the fact to the Clerk
if the Board is satisfied the cause for which the solicitation is to be made is
in fact for a purpose permitted hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 115.18) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990)
§ 115.24 ISSUANCE.
   Upon the receipt of written notification of approval from the Village Board
of Trustees, the Village Clerk shall issue a permit to the applicant for the
period designated in the notification.
(Prior Code, § 115.19) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990)
§ 115.25 TERM; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall determine from the application and
from facts that may be developed in connection with the application the period
for which the permit shall be approved, provided, the period shall not exceed
three calendar months.
   (B)   The Board, upon the receipt of further information, applications or
reports as it may deem necessary to safeguard the interests of the public and
carry out the purposes of this subchapter may renew and extend a permit for
additional periods of not to exceed one month.
(Prior Code, § 115.20) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990)
§ 115.26 NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   Any permit issued under this subchapter shall be non-transferable. This
section shall not prevent any permittee from using any number of solicitors and
representatives as may be reported to the Village Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 115.21) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990)
§ 115.27 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall revoke any permit if, upon receipt
of written information or upon its own investigation, it finds that any agent
or representative of the permittee is misrepresenting or making untrue
statements with regard to the solicitation has made untrue statements in the
application or that, in any other way, the solicitation has been conducted or
is being conducted in a manner inimical to the protection of health, life and
property of the citizens and not in conformity with the intent and purpose of
this subchapter or representing, in any way, any permit granted hereunder is an
endorsement of the solicitations.
   (B)   Before any permit issued under this subchapter is revoke, the Board
shall give the permittee 24 hours’ notice in writing that a hearing is to be
had and that at the hearing the Board shall ascertain the facts and, if any
reasons set forth in division (A) above for revoking the permit are found to
exist, the permit shall be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 115.22) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990)
§ 115.28 PROFESSIONAL PROMOTERS.
   Before any professional promoter is employed in connection with a
solicitation, a copy of the promoter’s contract shall be submitted to the
Village Clerk in connection with the application for permit, in order that the
Village Board of Trustees may determine whether the contract is in compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 115.23) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990)
§ 115.29 REPORTS.
   The Village Board of Trustees may require from any permittee under this
subchapter any reports or information at any time and at the intervals as, in
the discretion of the Board, shall be necessary for the successful
administration of the provisions of this subchapter and the protection of
health, life and property of the citizens.
(Prior Code, § 115.24) (Ord. 89-23, passed 4-23-1990)
ITINERANT MERCHANTS
§ 115.40 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do business as an itinerant merchant
without having first secured a license. For the purpose of this subchapter, any
merchant engaged or intending to engage in business as a merchant in the
village for a period of time not exceeding 100 days shall be considered an
itinerant merchant, peddlers excepted.
(Prior Code, § 115.35) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.41 APPLICATION.
   Every application for an itinerant merchant license shall set forth the
commodities to be sold and the place intended to be occupied or used for the
business.
(Prior Code, § 115.36) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.42 FEES.
   The fees for an itinerant merchant license shall be set by Council from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 115.37) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
115.40 through
115.42 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $200,
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 115.99)
CHAPTER 116: TAXICABS
Section
   
116.01   Unlawful operation
   
116.02   License required
§ 116.01 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to solicit business, or to accept
for transportation any passenger or otherwise operate as a livery vehicle
within the village, unless the vehicle has been issued “livery vehicle”
registration plates by the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of
Illinois, which have an “LY” suffix as set forth in 92 Ill. Admin. Code §
1010.430.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to solicit business, or to accept
for transportation any passenger or otherwise operate as a livery vehicle
within the village, unless either:
      (1)   The vehicle has been issued a valid village livery vehicle licence;
or
      (2)   Arrangements for the transportation of the passenger were made in
advance by the passenger, or someone acting on his or her behalf.
(Ord. 01-14, passed 9-11-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any taxicab company seeking to operate in the village by soliciting business
therein or by accepting for transportation any passenger within the village
must obtain a licence from the village for each vehicle owned and/or operated
by the company. A safety inspection of each vehicle may be required. The annual
licence fee for each vehicle shall be as set by Council from time to time. In
addition, each taxicab company seeking to operate with the village shall also
apply for and obtain a licence from the village for each individual who shall
operate a taxicab within the village. A background check for each individual
may be required. The annual licence fee for each individual shall be as set by
Council from time to time.
(Ord. 01-14, passed 9-11-2001; Ord. 07-03, passed 2-13-2007)
CHAPTER 117: GARAGE SALES AND OTHER OCCASIONAL SALES
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Regulations and limitations
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULK SALES. The sale of multiple merchandise brought to the premises for
resale or for reconditioning for resale shall be prohibited.
   OCCASIONAL SALES. Those sales of goods, wares and merchandise owned by the
occupant of the premises or owned by a group of person having a common sale,
commonly known as GARAGE SALES, BASEMENT SALES, HOUSE SALES, YARD SALES and
RUMMAGE SALES conducted on an infrequent and unscheduled basis on premises
zoned or used for residential purposes.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm or corporation, except a religious or
eleemosynary organization.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 9-16-1996)
§ 117.02 REGULATION AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or allow the conducting
of any occasional sale on premises zoned or used for residential purposes
without first having obtained a permit therefor. Application for the permit
shall be made to the Village Clerk. Each permit, when granted, shall be
prominently displayed on the premises covered by the permit in a manner that it
is easily visible to individuals passing by the subject premises. The permit
shall be valid only for the occasional sale for which it is granted.
   (B)   The permit fee for an occasional sale shall be as set by Council from
time to time.
   (C)   Occasional sales shall be permitted for three consecutive days between
9:00 a.m. and sunset each day. Not more than two occasional sales shall be
conducted on the same premises within any calendar year; provided, however,
that, a third sale may be conducted on the same premises if the permit
applicant is moving or vacating the premises. In the event of inclement
weather, the occasional sale may be held in the three-day period immediately
following the permitted period; however, no sale shall exceed three total days.
   (D)   All signs advising of the occasional sale shall be confined to the
premises on which the sale is conducted and all signs advising of the sale
shall be removed no later than 9:00 p.m. on the day the permit expires.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display for sale any goods,
wares or merchandise under this section beyond the property line of the
premises on which an occasional sale is permitted. Articles for sale may be
displayed inside the garage, inside the back yard or on a side driveway of the
premises if a driveway exists.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 9-16-1996) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association of persons or corporation violating any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and subject to a fine
of not less than $100, and not more than $500, per day that the violation
exists.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 9-16-1996)
CHAPTER 118: MINI-THEATERS
Section
   
118.01   Definition
   
118.02   Visibility of interior
   
118.03   Accessibility
   
118.04   Occupants
   
118.05   Application
   
118.06   Responsibilities of operator
   
118.07   Enforcement
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINI-THEATER. Any place, building or portion of a building to which the
public is admitted where one or more coin operated, paper currency operated,
slug or token operated, or otherwise operated by any means of payment,
electrically, electronically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors or video display devices are maintained to show still or
motion pictures or other video display materials to five or fewer persons per
machine or projector at any one time and are located in a booth, cubicle or
stall.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 4-18-1995)
§ 118.02 VISIBILITY OF INTERIOR.
   (A)   Each mini-theater shall be maintained and/or operated so that the
complete interior of the mini-theater is visible from the aisle space or center
of any and each building, if the entire building is used as a mini-theater, or
to the entrance to any place not within a building or portion thereof which is
used as a mini-theater.
   (B)   Each mini-theater shall be maintained and/or operated wherein the
entrance or opening to any booth, cubicle or stall used for the viewing of
still or motion pictures or other video displayed or presented materials is
neither fully nor partially closed by a door, curtain or any other item or
object, or by any architectural design which prevents an unobstructed view at
the entrance or opening to each booth of the conduct of each occupant.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 4-18-1995) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.03 ACCESSIBILITY.
   Each mini-theater booth, cubicle or stall shall be totally accessible to and
from aisles and public areas of the mini-theater. Access to a booth, cubicle or
stall shall be unobstructed by doors, locks or other control-type devices.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 4-18-1995) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.04 OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Only one individual shall occupy a booth, cubicle or stall at any
time.
   (B)   No individual occupying a booth, cubicle or stall shall, at any time,
engage in any type of sexual activity or cause any bodily discharge or litter
while in the booth, cubicle or stall.
   (C)   No individual shall damage or deface any portion of the booth, cubicle
or stall.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 4-18-1995) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.05 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any mini-theater lawfully in existence prior to the adoption of this
chapter made illegal hereby shall conform to the provisions of this chapter
within three months of the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall be applicable to any mini-theater for which a
building permit to construct booths is issued subsequent to the effective date
of this chapter.
   (C)   This chapter shall also be applicable to any mini-theater which is not
open for business prior to the date this chapter takes effect.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 4-18-1995) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.06 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator
if the act or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge or
approval of the operator, or as a result of the operator’s negligent failure to
supervise the employee’s conduct, and the operator shall be punishable for the
act or omission in the same manner as if the operator committed the act or
caused the omission.
   (B)   Any act or omission of any employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator
for purposes of determining the penalty to be imposed upon the operator.
   (C)   No minor shall be allowed to loiter around or to frequent a mini-
theater or to view any entertainment provided by or in the mini-theater.
   (D)   The operator shall maintain the premises in a clean and sanitary
manner at all times.
   (E)   The operator shall maintain at least ten foot candles of light in the
public portions of the mini-theater, including aisles, at all times. However,
if a lesser level of illumination in the aisles shall be necessary to enable a
patron to view the entertainment in the booth, cubicle or stall adjoining an
aisle, a lesser amount of illumination may be maintained in the aisles;
provided, however, at no time shall there be less than one foot candle of
illumination in the aisles, as measured from the floor.
   (F)   The operator shall ensure compliance of the mini-theater and its
patrons with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 4-18-1995) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Village Police Department shall have the authority to enter any mini-
theater or building in which a mini-theater is located at all reasonable times
to inspect the premises and enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 4-18-1995)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the revocation and suspension of any license, any person
violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100, nor
more than $500, for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 4-18-1995)
CHAPTER 119: PAWNBROKERS
Section
General Provisions
   
119.01   Definitions
License Regulations
   
119.15   License required
   
119.16   Investigation of license application
   
119.17   License term
   
119.18   License fee
   
119.19   License bond
   
119.20   Interest charges
   
119.21   Number of licenses; transferability
Conditions and Rules
   
119.35   Memorandum to pledger
   
119.36   Posting requirements
   
119.37   Maintenance of records
   
119.38   Report to police; inspection
   
119.39   Exhibition of pledged article
   
119.40   Sales and redemptions regulated
   
119.41   Hours and place of business operation
   
119.42   Property from a minor
   
119.43   Property from an intoxicated person or thief
   
119.44   Weapons; receiving and display restricted
   
119.45   Persons exempt
 
   
119.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Businesses for which license required; schedule of fees, see §
112.15
   Peddlers and Solicitors; Itinerant Merchants, see
Ch. 115
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS OPERATOR. Every person or entity engaged in the business of
receiving personal property in pledge or as security for a loan of money or
other thing of value advanced to the pledger, or who receives the personal
property upon a sale on the condition of selling the same back at a stipulated
price, or who publicly exhibits a sign of “money to loan on personal property
or deposit or pledge” or words of a similar nature in context.
   PLEDGE. A species of bailment, made for the mutual benefit of bailor and
bailee, arising when goods are delivered to another as a pledge for security to
him or her on money borrowed by the bailor, or a sale upon the conditions as
set forth in the definition of “business operator” of this section, or a
delivery of personal property under the circumstances as set forth under the
definition of “business operator” of this section.
   PROPERTY. Includes only those articles of personal property as may be
actually delivered over to the possession and custody of the person who
advances money on them, and not stocks, bonds, notes, mortgages, choses in
action or other evidence of debt.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002)
LICENSE REGULATIONS
§ 119.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in this type of business, as defined in this chapter,
within the corporate boundaries of the village without a license. No junk
dealer or secondhand dealer shall, during the period for which he or she shall
have been licensed as such, receive or hold any license to engage in the type
of business defined herein.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.16 INVESTIGATION OF LICENSE APPLICATION.
   An application for the license shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of this and other village ordinances relating to applications for
licenses. The Chief of Police of the village shall investigate the applicant to
determine whether the applicant is of good moral character.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002)
§ 119.17 LICENSE TERM.
   The term of a pawnbroker license shall be one year.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002)
§ 119.18 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee for a license shall be as set by Council from time to time;
provided, further, that, if the Board of Trustees annually adopts an ordinance
setting forth the applicable fees and charges due for the various licenses,
permits, rates and services, and new or amended regulatory measures authorized
by this chapter and by other ordinances of the village, an “annual fee
ordinance”, the annual fee ordinance, as the same may, from time to time, be
amended, is hereby incorporated herein as if fully set forth herein and
supersedes and amends the aforesaid license fee.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002)
§ 119.19 LICENSE BOND.
   Every person so licensed as a pawnbroker shall, at the time of receiving the
license, furnish and give a bond to the village in the penal sum of $1,000,
with good and sufficient sureties, conditioned for the due observance of all of
the provisions of this chapter regarding pawnbrokers and any other ordinances
that may be enacted by the village respecting pawnbrokers at any time during
the continuance of the license; provided, further, that, if the Board of
Trustees annually adopts an ordinance setting forth the applicable fees and
charges due for the various licenses, permits, rates and services, and new or
amended regulatory measures authorized by this chapter and by other ordinances
of the village, an “annual fee ordinance”, the annual fee ordinance, as the
same may, from time to time, be amended, is hereby incorporated herein as if
fully set forth herein and supersedes and amends the aforesaid bond fee.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002)
§ 119.20 INTEREST CHARGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any business covered herein to charge or collect a
greater benefit or percentage upon money advanced and for the use and
forbearance thereof than a permissible rate as set forth by state statute;
provided that, nothing herein shall be so construed as to conflict with the law
pertaining to usury; and the person receiving money so advanced shall not be
held to pay any storage, insurance or charges other than the interest, as
herein provided.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.21 NUMBER OF LICENSES; TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   The maximum number of licenses to operate a business defined herein
within the village shall be two.
   (B)   In the event any one of the licenses provided for shall lapse, be
revoked or terminated in any manner, the Board of Trustees may reduce the
maximum number of licenses.
   (C)   The reduction by the Board of Trustees may result in the elimination
of licenses resulting in no person being allowed to engage in the business
defined in this chapter, within the corporate boundaries of the village.
   (D)   A license to operate a business within the village shall not be
assignable, transferable, sold, devisble or otherwise conveyed in any manner.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002)
CONDITIONS AND RULES
§ 119.35 MEMORANDUM TO PLEDGER.
   (A)   Every licensee shall, at the time of making any advancement or loan,
deliver to the person pawning or pledging any property a memorandum or note
signed by him or her containing an accurate account and description, in the
English language, of all the goods, articles or other things pawned or pledged,
the amount of money, value of thing loaned thereon, the time of pledging the
same, the rate of interest to be paid on the loan and the name and residence of
the person making the pawn or pledge.
   (B)   No charge shall be made or received by any pawnbroker for any entry,
memorandum or note.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.36 POSTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every business covered herein shall, at all times, have and keep §
119.20 of this chapter printed in the English and Spanish languages, framed and
posted in a prominent and conspicuous position in the place of business, so
that the section of this chapter shall be plainly legible and visible to all
persons depositing or pledging property with the business.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.37 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Every licensee shall keep a record book in which shall be legibly
written in ink at the time of each loan an accurate account and description in
the English language of the goods, articles or thing pawned or pledged, the
amount of money loaned thereon, the period of pledging the same, the rate of
interest to be paid on the loan and the name and residence of the person
pawning or pledging the goods, article or thing. The entry shall also include
the serial number or identification number of items received which are required
to bear the number. No entry made in the book shall be erased, mutilated,
obliterated, changed or defaced for any reason.
   (B)   Whenever any licensee shall buy any secondhand furniture, metals or
clothes, or any other article or thing whatsoever, the same shall be recorded
in the same manner as a pledge, and the record shall show the time of the
purchase, the amount paid for the article or thing, and the name and residence
of the person selling the article or thing. No entry made in the book shall be
erased, mutilated, obliterated, changed or defaced for any reason.
   (C)   Every pawnbroker shall require two forms of identification to be shown
by him or her by each person pledging, property or selling any goods, articles
or other things to the operator. One of the two forms of identification must
include business his or her residence address. These forms of identification
shall include, but not be limited to, any of the following: driver’s license,
Social Security card, utility bill, employee or student identification card,
credit card or a civic, union or professional association membership card.
   (D)   The aforesaid book shall at all times be open to the inspection the
Chief of Police of the village or any member of the Police Department of the
village.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.38 REPORT TO POLICE; INSPECTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every business operator to make out and
deliver to the sheriff of the county in which the business operates, on each
day before the hour of 12:00 noon, a legible and exact copy from the standard
record book, as required herein, that lists all personal property and other
valuable things received on deposit or purchased during the preceding day,
together with the exact time when received or purchased, and a description of
the person or person by whom left in pledge, or from whom the same were
purchased as is required by state law.
   (B)   The copy of from the standard record book, as well as every article or
other thing of value so pawned or pledged, shall, at all times, be open to the
inspection the Chief of Police of the village or any member of the Police
Department of the village.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.39 EXHIBITION OF PLEDGED ARTICLE.
   Every licensee shall, during business hours, upon the request of any pledger
presenting the memorandum herein provided for, or upon the request of any
assignee or transferee thereof presenting the memorandum, exhibit to the person
the article pledged and described in the memorandum. Each article pledged shall
have attached thereto a tag with the pledge number, the time when the pledge
was obtained and the amount of the pledge.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.40 SALES AND REDEMPTIONS REGULATED.
   No personal property received on deposit or pledge or by a sale, as defined
herein, by any licensed business operator shall be sold or permitted to be
redeemed or removed from the place of business of the licensed operator for the
period of 24 hours after the delivery of the copy and statement required by §
119.38(A) of this chapter required to be delivered to the officer or officers
named therein; and no personal property pawned, pledged or received as a result
of the sale, as defined herein, shall be sold or disposed of by any business
operator within one year from the time when the pledger/seller shall make
default in the payment of interest on the money so advanced by the operator,
unless by the written consent of the pledger/seller.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.41 HOURS AND PLACE OF BUSINESS OPERATION.
   (A)   No licensee shall receive on deposit or pledge any personal property
or other valuable thing, or shall buy any secondhand article or thing, before
the hour of 8:00 a.m. or after the hour of 7:00 p.m. during the months of
January, February, March, April, October, November and December of each year;
nor before the hour of 7:00 a.m. or after the hour of 8:00 p.m. during the
months of May, June, July, August and September of each year.
   (B)   No license shall be issued unless the establishment for which a
license is sought is located within the proper business zoning district, hereby
deemed to be commercial or industrial zoning.
   (C)   The location of any licensed activity may be changed only upon written
notice served ten days in advance to the Village Clerk; providing, the new
business location is in compliance with the building, zoning and other
applicable requirements of this chapter and all village ordinances.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.42 PROPERTY FROM A MINOR.
   No business operator described herein shall take or receive any property or
pledge for any advancement or loan, nor shall buy, any property of any kind
from any minor who is under 18 years of age, or the ownership of which is in,
or which is claimed by, any minor, or which may be in the possession or under
the control of any minor.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.43 PROPERTY FROM AN INTOXICATED PERSON OR THIEF.
   No business operator described herein shall purchase or take any article in
pawn or pledge from any person appearing to be intoxicated, nor from any person
known to be a thief or to have been convicted of larceny or burglary. A law
enforcement officer may provide the criminal conviction information to a
business operator. When any person is found to be the owner of stolen property
which has been pledged or bought, the property which has been pledged or
bought, the property shall be returned to the owner thereof without the payment
of the amount advanced by the business operator thereon or any costs or charges
of any kind which the pawnbroker may have placed upon the same.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.44 WEAPONS; RECEIVING AND DISPLAY RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No licensee shall receive on deposit or pledge, nor shall buy, any
personal property that is within the definition of a firearm as defined by 18
U.S.C. § 921, as may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   No licensee shall show, display or exhibit any pistol, revolver,
derringer, Bowie knife, dirk or other weapon of like character which can be
concealed on the person, in any show window or in or on any premises
immediately abutting upon any public way in the village in a way that the same
may be seen by the public from the public way.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.45 PERSONS EXEMPT.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any person who principally engages in the sale of new goods who,
incident to the sale of new goods, accepts for trade-in previously owned or
secondhand goods or who re-purchases goods from the same person who purchased
those goods at the same store, shop or place of business; provided, he or she
does not otherwise engage in a business defined in this chapter;
   (B)   Any person who sells goods at a rummage sale, garage sale, yard sale
or flea market who does not otherwise engage in a business defined in this
chapter;
   (C)   Any person who purchases aluminum, glass or plastic containers or
paper products for the purpose of recycling or for re-sale for recycling, who
does not otherwise engage in a business defined in this chapter;
   (D)   Any federally licensed firearms dealer required by federal laws or
regulations to maintain records substantially equivalent to records required
pursuant to this chapter relating to purchases of firearms; provided, the
records are open to inspection by any law enforcement officer and he or she
does not otherwise engage in a business defined in this chapter; and
   (E)   A bona fide investment firm, as defined by the Internal Revenue
Service, which firm does not otherwise engage in a business defined by this
chapter.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association of persons, business entity or corporation
violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and
subject to a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $500, per day that the
violation exists and/or revocation of the business license; provided, further,
that, if the Board of Trustees annually adopts an ordinance setting forth the
applicable fees and charges due for the various licenses, permits, rates and
services, and new or amended regulatory measures authorized by this chapter and
by other ordinances of the village, an “annual fee ordinance”, the annual fee
ordinance, as the same may, from time to time, be amended, is hereby
incorporated herein as if fully set forth herein and supersedes and amends the
aforesaid fine.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 4-9-2002)
CHAPTER 120: ADULT USES
Section
   
120.01   Definitions
   
120.02   Hours of operation
   
120.03   Viewing booths
   
120.04   Effective date
§ 120.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT USE. Any business that provides entertainment or sells goods or
services which emphasize specified anatomical areas and/or specified sexual
activities, as defined herein, including, but not limited to, the following
specific types of adult uses.
      (1)   ADULT USE, ADULT ARCADE. An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more motion picture projectors, slide projectors or
similar machines for viewing by five or fewer persons each are used to show
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions that are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   ADULT USE, ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment that has as a
substantial portion of its stock-in-trade and offers for sale, for any form of
consideration, any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other visual
representations that are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (3)   ADULT USE, ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar
establishment that regularly features live performances that are characterized
by the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual
activities, or films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions in which more than 10% of the total presentation
time is devoted to the showing of material that is characterized by any
emphasis upon the depiction of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (4)   ADULT USE, ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or space
with a capacity for fewer than 50 persons used for presenting material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as
herein defined, for observation by patrons therein. The phrase “used for” in
this definition shall mean a regular and substantial course of conduct and not
a one-time presentation of the material.
      (5)   ADULT USE, ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment where,
for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides
or similar photographic reproductions are shown, and in which a substantial
portion of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of material
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (6)   ADULT USE, ADULT SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of
age, or which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose
of bathing, relaxation or reducing, using steam or hot air as a cleaning,
relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined herein.
      (7)   ADULT USE, HOTEL/MOTEL. A hotel or motel or similar business
establishment offering public accommodations for any form of consideration
that:
         (a)   Provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and/or
         (b)   Rents, leases or lets any room for less than a six-hour period,
or rents, leases or lets any single room more than twice in a 24-hour period.
      (8)   ADULT USE, MASSAGE PARLOR. An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, massage, alcohol rub, fomentation, electric or magnetic
treatment, or similar treatment or manipulation of the human body is
administered, unless the treatment or manipulation is administered by a medical
practitioner, chiropractor, acupuncturist, physical therapist or similar
professional person licensed by the state. This definition does not include an
athletic club, health club, school, gymnasium, reducing salon, spa or similar
establishment where massage or similar manipulation of the human body is
offered as an incidental or accessory service.
      (9)   ADULT USE, MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose primary business
is the provision to customers of figure models who are so provided with the
intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the customers
and who engage in specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical
areas while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn sculptured,
photographed or otherwise depicted by the customers.
      (10)   ADULT USE, SEXUAL PARAPHERNALIA STORE. Any retail store
specializing in the sale of paraphernalia, devices or equipment distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specific sexual
conduct or used in connection with specified sexual conduct.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. As used herein, any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areolas; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. As used herein, any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) of this definition.
   VIEWING BOOTH. A room or area that is used by customers to view films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, DVDs, slides, other photographic
reproductions or live performances that are characterized by an emphasis upon
the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 3-25-2003)
§ 120.02 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No adult use shall be open for business between the hours of 5:00 a.m.
and 10:00 a.m. on any day of the week unless the use operates under a validly
issued and effective alcoholic liquor license that allows for the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquor on the premises during any portion of the
prohibited time period, in which case the adult use may be open for business
during the prohibited time period, but only to the extent authorized by the
use’s validly issued and effective alcoholic liquor license.
   (B)   Adult bookstores/viewing booths shall not be open for business between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 3-25-2003; Ord. 10-09, passed 8-19-2010; Ord. 18-13, passed
4-24-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 120.03 VIEWING BOOTHS.
   No viewing booth in any adult use shall have a door, curtain, screen or
other obstruction preventing the interior of the booths from being easily seen
from the outside at all times. All existing doors, curtains, screens or other
obstruction on viewing booths must be removed immediately.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 3-25-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 120.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective on 5-1-2003.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 3-25-2003)
CHAPTER 121: ICE CREAM TRUCKS, PUSH CARTS AND VENDORS
Section
   
121.01   Prohibited activity
   
121.02   Definitions
   
121.03   Vending restrictions
   
121.04   Equipment specifications for ice cream push carts
   
121.05   Permits required
   
121.06   Other requirements for ice cream vendors
   
121.07   Effective date
§ 121.01 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   No person shall operate or vend from an ice cream truck in the village. No
person shall operate or vend from an ice cream push cart in the village, except
as expressly permitted in this chapter.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 5-8-2012; Ord. 16-04, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 121.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ICE CREAM PUSH CART. Any wagon and or vehicle propelled by human power in
which ice cream, ice cream bars, frozen yogurt, popsicles or other frozen dairy
and nondairy products are carried for purposes of retail sale in the village.
   ICE CREAM TRUCK. A motorized vehicle in which ice cream, ice cream bars,
frozen yogurt, popsicles or other frozen dairy and nondairy products are
carried for purposes of retail sale in the village.
   ICE CREAM VENDOR. A person selling ice cream, ice cream bars, frozen yogurt,
popsicles or other frozen dairy and nondairy products from an ice cream push
cart in the village or any company that employs such person.
   VEND. To sell ice cream, ice cream bars, frozen yogurt, popsicles or other
frozen dairy and nondairy products from an ice cream push cart.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 5-8-2012; Ord. 16-04, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 121.03 VENDING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Sales of goods. Sale of goods permitted under this section shall be
limited to individually packaged ice cream, ice cream bars, frozen yogurt,
popsicles or other frozen dairy and nondairy products. No soft serve machines
shall be permitted.
   (B)   Authorized vending locations. Ice cream push carts may operate on any
sidewalk in the village but cannot operate on any street or in any location
where cars and other motorized vehicles are permitted.
   (C)   Time and date restrictions.
      (1)   Ice cream vendors may operate an ice cream push cart only between
the calendar dates of May 1 and September 30 of any given year.
      (2)   No ice cream vendor shall vend before 10:00 a.m. or after the
official time of sunset on any particular day.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 5-8-2012; Ord. 16-04, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 121.04 EQUIPMENT SPECIFICATIONS FOR ICE CREAM PUSH CARTS.
   (A)   A sign or decal that is visible at all times with the business address
and telephone number of the business license holder printed on the side of the
vehicle in letters of not less than two inches in height.
   (B)   A trash receptacle to dispose of all litter that is generated from
products sold from the ice cream push cart.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 5-8-2012; Ord. 16-04, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 121.05 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each ice cream vendor must obtain an annual operating permit from the
Village Clerk's office for each ice cream push cart it seeks to operate within
the village at the following cost:
      Fifty dollars for each ice cream push cart.
   (B)   Each ice cream vendor must supply the village with a phone number
which the Village Police Department may utilize to contact and locate each ice
cream push cart operating in the village. If this phone number is not a direct
phone number to the ice cream push cart, the person answering this phone must
have the ability to immediately contact the operator of the ice cream push
cart.
   (C)   Prior to obtaining a permit, the village will require proof that the
ice cream push cart is in compliance with all provisions of this section,
including but not limited to, proof of insurance and verification that all
employees have received background checks. In addition, all ice cream vendors
must be in compliance at all times with all applicable federal, state and
village laws and regulations.
   (D)   The village will limit the issuance of permits to a maximum of three
companies and each company will be limited to no more than one ice cream push
cart. Applications for permits will be processed in the order in which they are
received.
   (E)   (1)   All permit applicants will be required to provide an original
certificate of insurance evidencing the following insurance minimums:
         (a)   Workers compensation and employers liability: Minimum of
$500,000 each accident, illness or disease;
         (b)   Commercial general liability: Minimum of $1,000,000 per
occurrence.
      (2)   All insurance policies required under this section shall name the
village as an additional insured. Cancellation of any insurance policy required
under this section shall result in automatic revocation of an issued annual
operating permit.
   (F)   A current, valid village operating permit issued to that individual
ice cream push cart must be visibly displayed on the front panel of the ice
cream push cart.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 5-8-2012; Ord. 16-04, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 121.06 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR ICE CREAM VENDORS.
   (A)   Employee requirements.
      (1)   All ice cream vendors or employees of the ice cream vendors that
are operating or working out of an ice cream pushcart shall submit to a
background check by the Village Police Department.
      (2)   All ice cream vendors or employees of the ice cream vendors that
are operating or working out of an ice cream pushcart shall be over the age of
18.
   (B)   Inspections. Village officials reserve the right to inspect ice cream
push carts to ensure compliance with this section.
   (C)   Cleanliness required.
      (1)   The interior and exterior of each ice cream push cart, and all
equipment therein, shall be kept clean and sanitary and maintained in good
repair at all times.
      (2)   The interior and exterior of each ice cream push cart shall comply
with all local, state, and federal codes and regulations governing the sale and
distribution of food products.
   (D)   Sound amplification restrictions.
      (1)   All sound amplification equipment used must comply with all local,
state, and federal laws regulating permissible levels of sound.
      (2)   Sound amplification, if used, shall be restricted to the playing of
non-vocal music and village reserves the right to regulate volume in a manner
to prevent the non-vocal music from being a nuisance or otherwise disturbing
the peace.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 5-8-2012; Ord. 16-04, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 121.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval, and publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 5-8-2012; Ord. 16-04, passed 2-9-2016)
CHAPTER 122: SHORT-TERM RENTAL ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
122.01   Prohibited activity
   
122.02   Definitions
   
122.03   License
   
122.04   Application
   
122.05   Unit requirements
   
122.06   Rental requirements
   
122.07   Liability insurance
   
122.08   Safety requirements
§ 122.01 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   No person shall rent or operate a short-term rental establishment in the
village, except as expressly permitted in this chapter.
(Ord. 16-16, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 122.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GUEST. Any person that contracts with the short-term rental unit licensee to
rent the unit for the minimum length of rental. The term GUEST does not include
members of the licensee's immediate family; nor does it include persons who
have signed a lease to use and occupy the unit for a set period of time.
   MINIMUM LENGTH OF RENTAL. The short-term rental unit is rented for at least
two nights.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL ESTABLISHMENT. A mixed-use building which contains both
commercial and residential uses, but only one short-term rental unit.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT. A unit of at least 500 square feet that contains a
kitchen and bathroom, and supports no more than two inhabitants for the minimum
length of rental.
(Ord. 16-16, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 122.03 LICENSE.
   A short-term rental license issued under this section allows the licensee to
provide sleeping accommodations to up to two registered guests. A licensee
under this section is prohibited from selling or otherwise providing food or
alcoholic liquor to registered guests.
(Ord. 16-16, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 122.04 APPLICATION.
   In addition to the requirements set forth in §
112.01, an application for, and, if requested, renewal of, a business license
to engage in the business of short-term rentals shall be accompanied by the
following information:
   (A)   Proof of insurance, as required under §
122.07;
   (B)   A statement as to whether the applicant or any controlling person has
ever been convicted in any jurisdiction of any felony;
   (C)   Proof that the applicant has legal title to the property on which the
establishment is located;
   (D)   Proof of one available parking space dedicated to the inhabitants of
the rental unit; and
   (E)   Proof of compliance with all safety provisions under §
122.08.
(Ord. 16-16, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 122.05 UNIT REQUIREMENTS.
   A short-term rental unit must:
   (A)   Be located within a mixed-use building containing only one potential
short-term rental unit;
   (B)   Be at least 500 square feet;
   (C)   Have an operational kitchen;
   (D)   Have an operational bathroom facility;
   (E)   Have only accommodations for a maximum of two registered guests; and
   (F)   Have at least one parking space for use by registered guests.
(Ord. 16-16, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 122.06 RENTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Guests. Guests renting a short-term rental unit must register with the
licensee of the unit and provide: name, address, signature, dates of
accommodation. Guests are required to rent the unit for the minimum length of
rental, but not more than 30 days.
   (B)   Licensee. The licensee of the short-term rental unit must maintain the
unit, including compliance with the safety requirements in §
122.08. The licensee must keep guest registration records on file for seven
years and, upon request by any authorized village official, shall be made
available for inspection by such village official in case of emergency. The
licensee may not use any physical signage, including but not limited to
billboards, posters, sandwich boards, flyers, or brochures, to advertise the
existence of the short-term rental. The licensee is required to obtain and
maintain liability insurance in compliance with §
122.07.
(Ord. 16-16, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 122.07 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The licensee is required to obtain general liability insurance, with limits
of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence, for bodily injury and property
damage arising in any way from the issuance of the license. Each policy of
insurance required under this section shall be issued by an insurer authorized
to insure in the State of Illinois. The licensee shall maintain the insurance
required under this section in full force and effect for the duration of the
license period.
(Ord. 16-16, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 122.08 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The licensee shall have the duty to install and maintain in the short-
term rental unit the following:
      (1)   A fire alarm monitored by a central fire station;
      (2)   Exit lights at all points of exit from the short-term rental unit;
      (3)   Emergency lighting in the hallways and stairways; and
      (4)   A ten pound ABC fire extinguisher at each exit from the short-term
rental unit.
   (B)   The licensee shall submit to annual fire inspections and quarterly
general inspections.
(Ord. 16-16, passed 7-26-2016)
CHAPTER 123: PROHIBITION OF SALE OF TOBACCO
Section
   
123.01   Definitions
   
123.02   Age requirements/prohibition
   
123.03   Minimum age to sell tobacco products
 
   
123.99   Penalty
§ 123.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTE. To give, sell, deliver, dispense or issue or offer to give,
sell, deliver, dispense or issue, or cause or hire any person to give, sell,
deliver, dispense, issue or offer to give, sell, deliver, dispense or issue.
   LICENSEE. Any person (as defined herein) holding a license to sell tobacco
products at retail.
   MINOR. A person who has not yet reached 18 years of age.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, limited liability company, partnership, joint
venture, association, corporation, estate, trust, trustee, or any other group
or combination acting as a unit, excepting the United States of America, the
State of Illinois, and any political subdivision thereof.
   PHOTOGRAPHIC IDENTIFICATION. Any officially issued card containing the
bearer's date of birth that includes a photograph of the person seeking to
purchase tobacco products and that is accepted as proof of age under Illinois
law.
   POINT OF SALE. A store, building, structure, or any other separate place of
business maintained by a seller from which tobacco products are made available
for sale or distribution to consumers. POINT OF SALE does not include separate
cash registers or service counters within a store or other place of business.
   RETAILER. Any person who sells tobacco products to individuals for personal
consumption. This definition includes the owner of the business and any
employees of the business.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT SAMPLE. A tobacco product distributed to members of the
general public at no cost or at nominal cost for purposes of promoting the
product.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance containing tobacco leaf including but not
limited to cigarettes, cigars, snuff smoking tobacco, and/or smokeless tobacco.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electronic or self-service device which
upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, automatically
dispenses tobacco products.
(Ord. 18-09, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 123.02 AGE REQUIREMENTS/PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any licensee or
retailer, to sell, offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco products to any
person under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   Each licensee shall request and examine the photographic
identification of any person purchasing tobacco products so as to verify that
the purchaser is 21 years of age or older.
   (C)   Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided for herein
shall be posted by every licensee at every display of tobacco products which
offers tobacco products for sale or which is visible by any customer. The text
of such signs shall be in red letters on a white background, said letters to be
at least one-inch high. Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall
state:
   "THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW."
(Ord. 18-09, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 123.03 MINIMUM AGE TO SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to engage, employ or permit
any person under 21 years of age to sell tobacco products in any licensed
premises.
(Ord. 18-09, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 123.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
section shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $100 for the first violation;
      (2)   A fine not more than $500 for the second violation;
      (3)   A fine not more than $ 1,000 for each additional violation and a
60-day suspension or revocation of any permit or license issued to the person
for the premises on which the violation occurred.
   (B)   Each day on which a violation of this section occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 18-09, passed 4-10-2018)
CHAPTER 124: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
124.01   Purpose and scope
   
124.02   Definitions
   
124.03   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
124.04   Dispute resolution
   
124.05   Indemnification
   
124.06   Insurance
§ 124.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act, Public Act 100-0585.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 18-22, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 124.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE:
      (1)   CABLE SERVICE as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6), as amended;
      (2)   INFORMATION SERVICE as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
      (3)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as
amended;
      (4)   MOBILE SERVICE as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; or
      (5)   Wireless service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER:
      (1)   CABLE OPERATOR as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(5), as amended;
      (2)   PROVIDER OF INFORMATION SERVICE as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as
amended;
      (3)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER as defined in 47 U.S.C, 153(51), as
amended; or
      (4)   A wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: (i) listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with Section
VI.D.1.a.i through Section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement
codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or (ii) designated as a locally
landmarked building, property, site, or historic district by an ordinance
adopted by the village pursuant to a preservation program that meets the
requirements of the Certified Local Government Program of the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office or where such certification of the preservation
program by the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: (i) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and (ii) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following
types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of
equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications
demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer
switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and
other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
(i) equipment associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does
not include: (i) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or (ii) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 18-22, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 124.03 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division (C)(7) regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to
zoning review or approval if they are collocated: (i) in rights-of-way in any
zoning district, or (ii) outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively
for commercial or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      (1)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the village, together with the village's small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include an "as-built"
depiction;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act
of 1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application
as it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows:
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th
day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the village's denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (c)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th
day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the village's denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   1.   The village shall deny an application which does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
            2.   If the village determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained in this chapter require that the utility pole or wireless
support structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall
be conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            3.   The village shall document the basis for a denial, including
the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
village denies an application.
            4.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
village and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application
fee. The village shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and recommencement
of the village's review period.
            5.   The applicant must notify the village in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application.
            6.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         (e)   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit, the village and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment
Agreement, provided by the village.
      (3)   Completeness of application. 
         (a)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the village must
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the village must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the village fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the village's permit
application form are submitted by the applicant to the village.
         (b)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village sends
the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
village; or
         (b)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated applications.
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at the applicant's
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the
application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been provided or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment or that are denied. The village may issue separate
permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration of permits. 
         (a)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable village codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
         (b)   If PA 100-0585 is repealed as provided in Section 90 of the Act,
renewals of permits shall be subject to the applicable village code provisions
or regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the village by personal
delivery at the village's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   (C)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies. 
         (a)   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         (b)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency's communications equipment.
         (c)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (d)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
         (e)   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in the previous division (d). Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (3)   (a)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution
or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole
or the electric supply zone of the pole.
         (b)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the village utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         (c)   For purposes of this division, the terms "communications space,"
"communication worker safety zone," and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (4)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      (5)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a village
ordinance, written policy adopted by the village, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      (6)   Alternate placements. 
         (a)   With respect to an application for the collocation of a small
wireless facility associated with a new utility pole, the village may propose
that the small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or
existing wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the village,
the applicant shall provide written certification describing the property
rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does
not satisfy the criteria in this division.
      (7)   (a)   Height limitations. The village maximum height of a small
wireless facility shall be no more than ten feet above the utility pole or
wireless support structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
         (b)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a
height in excess of ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the
applicant shall apply for a special use permit in conformance with procedures,
terms and conditions set forth in the village’s zoning ordinance and zoning
code. A special use permit, when granted, shall limit the height of any
proposed wireless facility to the higher of:
            1.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village, provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way
within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for such facility; or
            2.   Forty-five feet above ground level.
      (8)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the village and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the village grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (D)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
      (1)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application
to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
      (2)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The village shall not require an application, approval or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with division (B)(1)(d); or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   (E)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately-owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that is under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   (a)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in § 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of § 16-108.5(i) of the Public Utilities Act.
         (b)   For the purposes of this division, PUBLIC UTILITY has the
meaning given to that term in ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 3-105 of the Public
Utilities Act. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person
from any requirement:
            1.   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service; or
            2.   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain,
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this chapter.
   (F)   Pre-existing agreements. 
      (1)   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility
poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the village's utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the village before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
      (2)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the village
on the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
village makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying
the village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing
agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for
the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the
village's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the village
before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option
under this division.
   (G)   Annual recurring rate.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring
rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located
in a right-of-way that equals:
         (a)   Two hundred dollars per year; or
         (b)   The actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on the village utility pole.
      (2)   If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and
direct costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first
annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (H)   Abandonment. 
      (1)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of
written notice from the village notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village if
it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 18-22, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 124.04 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Eighteenth Judicial Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois shall have
exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for
collocation of small wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the
right-of-way, the village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on
its poles at annual rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility
pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 18-22, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 124.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the village harmless against
any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
village improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify
or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused
by the sole negligence of the village or its employees or agents. A wireless
provider shall further waive any claims that they may have against the village
with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused,
based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 18-22, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 124.06 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the village. A wireless provider
that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to
comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this
section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the
village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure
the insurance coverage limits required by the village.
(Ord. 18-22, passed 8-14-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
135.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
137.   WEAPONS
      
138.   POSSESSION OF CANNABIS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Intent
   
130.03   Knowledge
   
130.04   Recklessness
   
130.05   Negligence
   
130.06   Attempt
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The taking of action or a failure or omission to take action.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-2)
   ANOTHER. A person or persons other than the offender.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-3)
   CONDUCT. An act or a series of acts, and the accompanying mental state.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-4)
   OFFENSE. A violation of a penal statute of the village or state.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-12)
(Prior Code, § 130.01)
§ 130.02 INTENT.
   A person intends, or acts intentionally or with intent, to accomplish a
result or engage in conduct described by the section defining the offense, when
his or her conscious objective or purpose is to accomplish that result or
engage in that conduct.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-4) (Prior Code, § 130.02)
§ 130.03 KNOWLEDGE.
   (A)   A person knows, or acts knowingly or with knowledge of:
      (1)   The nature or attendant circumstances of his or her conduct,
described by the section defining the offense, when he or she is consciously
aware that his or her conduct is of a nature or that the circumstances exist.
Knowledge of a material fact includes awareness of the substantial probability
that the fact exists; and
      (2)   The result of his or her conduct, described by the section defining
the offense, when he or she is consciously aware that the result is practically
certain to be caused by his or her conduct.
   (B)   Conduct performed knowingly or with knowledge is performed willfully,
within the meaning of a statute using the latter term, unless the section
clearly requires another meaning.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-5) (Prior Code, § 130.03)
§ 130.04 RECKLESSNESS.
   A person is reckless or acts recklessly when he or she consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or
that a result will follow, described by the section defining the offense; and
the disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care which a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation. An act performed recklessly
is performed wantonly, within the meaning of a section using the latter term,
unless the statute clearly requires another meaning.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-6) (Prior Code, § 130.04)
§ 130.05 NEGLIGENCE.
   A person is negligent, or acts negligently, when he or she fails to be aware
of a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or a result
will follow, described by the statute defining the offense; and the failure
constitutes a substantial deviation from the standard of care which a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-7) (Prior Code, § 130.05)
§ 130.06 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits an attempt when, with intent
to commit a specific offense, he or she does any act which constitutes a
substantial step toward the commission of that offense.
   (B)   Impossibility. It shall not be a defense to a charge of attempt that
because of a misapprehension of the circumstances it would have been impossible
for the accused to commit the offense attempted.
   (C)   Fine. A person convicted of an attempt may be fined not to exceed the
maximum provided for the offense attempted. If the fine exceeds that set forth
in §
130.99 below, however, the village shall enforce the offense under the
provisions of state law.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 8-4) (Prior Code, § 130.06) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this title for which another penalty is
not specifically provided shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 130.99)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Damage of firefighting apparatus, hydrants or equipment
   
131.02   Trespass to land
   
131.03   Damaging village property
   
131.04   Spray paint and markers
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DAMAGE OF FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with,
destroy or deface any fire hydrant, fire hose, fire engine or other public or
private firefighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining to the equipment,
or intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper authorization.
(Prior Code, § 131.01) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 TRESPASS TO LAND.
   (A)   No person shall enter upon the land or into a building other than a
residence, or any part thereof, of another after receiving, prior to the entry,
notice from the owner or occupant that an entry is forbidden or remain upon the
land or in a building other than a residence, of another after receiving notice
from the owner or occupant to depart.
   (B)   A person is deemed to have received notice from the owner or occupant
within the meaning of division (A) above if he or she has been notified
personally, either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice
forbidding an entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to the land or the forbidden part thereof.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of his or her
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on the land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodation for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on the land at the request of, or by occupancy, leasing or other
agreement or arrangement with the owner or his or her agent, nor to anyone
invited by the migrant worker or other person so living on the land to visit
him or her at the place he or she is so living on the land.
   (D)   (1)   A person shall be exempt from prosecution under this section if
he or she beautifies unoccupied and abandoned residential or industrial
properties located within the village.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (D), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         BEAUTIFIES. To landscape, clean up litter or to repair dilapidated
conditions on or to board up windows and doors.
         UNOCCUPIED AND ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL OR INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY. Any real
estate in which the taxes have not been paid for a period of at least two
years, and which has been left unoccupied and abandoned for a period of at
least one year.
   (E)   No person shall be liable in any civil action for money damages to the
owner of unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial property which
that person beautifies pursuant to division (D) of this section.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3) (Prior Code, § 131.02) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 DAMAGING VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Knowingly damage any village property without the village’s
consent;
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosion, damage village property
without the village’s consent;
      (3)   Knowingly start a fire on village land without the consent of the
village; and/or
      (4)   Knowingly deposit on village land or in a village building any
stink bomb or any offensive-smelling compound which thereby tends to interfere
with the use by the village of its land or buildings.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, PROPERTY means anything of value
including, but not limited to, real estate, money, commercial instruments,
written instruments representing or embodying rights concerning anything of
value, labor or services, things affixed to or found on land or part of or
affixed to any building, electricity, gas or water.
(Prior Code, § 131.03) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 SPRAY PAINT AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Restrictions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell, cause
to be sold, give or otherwise provide any aerosol or pressurized container of
paint, dye, ink or similar substance to any person under the age of 18 years.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell, cause
to be sold, give or otherwise provide to any person under the age of 18 years,
a marker with a marking tip of one-fourth inch or more at its diameter.
      (3)   No person under the age of 18 years shall purchase any pressurized
container which contains paint, dye, ink or a similar substance.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any individual under the age of 18 years, who is
in a public place or upon private property, without the consent of the owner,
lessee or other person entitled to legal possession thereof, and who is not
accompanied by a responsible adult, to possess an aerosol or pressurized
container of paint, dye, ink or similar substance; or to possess a marker with
a marking tip of one-fourth inch or more in diameter.
   (B)   Manner of sale.
      (1)   All persons offering for sale pressurized containers which contain
paint shall place containers in an area where they may be viewed at all times
by an authorized employer, agent or other authorized representative of the
business offering those containers for sale or by placing them behind a locked
counter, cabinet or other storage facility, so that access to them cannot be
gained without their being unlocked by an authorized employee, agent or other
authorized representative of the person.
      (2)   All persons offering for sale markers with a marking tip of one-
fourth inch shall keep the markers in a location where they can be in constant
view of the employee, agent or other authorized representative of the person
selling the marker.
   (C)   Parental responsibility. It shall be unlawful for a parent or legal
guardian to allow an unemancipated minor to engage in acts in violation of this
section. The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor shall be
presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have failed to
exercise proper parental responsibility and the minor shall be deemed to have
committed the acts described below with the knowledge and permission of the
parent or guardian upon the occurrence of the following three events:
      (1)   An unemancipated minor is adjudicated to be in violation of this
section or has incurred non-judicial sanctions from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt in violation of this section;
      (2)   The parent or legal guardian has received a written notice thereof,
either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned from the
Police Department of the village, following the adjudication or non-judicial
sanction; and
      (3)   If, at any time within one year following receipt of the notice
described in division (C)(2) above, the minor is adjudicated to be in violation
of this section or has incurred non-judicial sanctions from another official
agency resulting from an admission or guilt of violation of this section.
   (D)   Parental responsibility for fines. If a minor shall fail to pay a fine
or restitution lawfully imposed on him or her, the parents or legal guardian(s)
of the minor shall be jointly and severally liable for the fine or restitution.
(Prior Code, § 131.04) (Ord. 94-4, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99.
   (B)   (1)   Upon a finding of guilty for violation of §
131.04, there shall be imposed a fine up to $500.
      (2)   In addition to this fine, the court may require that a party guilty
of violating this section shall:
         (a)   Make full and complete restitution to the village and the owner
of any property damaged as a result of the violation, including expenses
incurred in the restoration of the property to its previous condition; and
         (b)   Participate in community service.
(Prior Code, § 131.99) (Ord. 94-4, passed 6-6-1994)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Curfew
   
132.03   Loitering
   
132.04   Smoke bombs
Cruising
   
132.15   Definitions
   
132.16   Cruising prohibited
   
132.17   Exemptions
   
132.18   Vehicle seizure and impoundment
 
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in an unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another
and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in a place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of the transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that the bomb or explosive is
concealed in the place;
   (C)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of the transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed;
   (D)   Enters upon the property of another, and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it; and/or
   (E)   Transmits in any manner to the Police Department or Fire Department or
any privately-owned and operated ambulance service, a false request for an
ambulance, emergency medical technician-ambulance or emergency medical
technician-paramedic knowing at the time there is no reasonable ground for
believing that the assistance is required.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1) (Prior Code, § 132.01) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   School curfew; unlawful activities. It shall be unlawful for any
juvenile, between the age of seven and 16 years, who is subject to compulsory
school attendance pursuant to the Illinois School Code, whether attending a
public, private or parochial school, who has been expelled or suspended from
attending the school, and who is not otherwise subject to the truancy laws
established by the Illinois School Code, to be upon any public road, street,
alley, park or other lands used for public purposes or in any public place of
business or amusement within the village, during the following hours when the
schools are in session:
      (1)   Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday: between 10:30 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m. on the following day;
      (2)   Friday: between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on the following day; and
      (3)   Saturday: between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on the following day.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Those accompanied by a parent or other person over 18 years of age
having legal custody of the juvenile;
      (2)   Those engaged in, going to or coming from a place of employment,
which employment is allowed under the laws of the state;
      (3)   Those seeking medical care or treatment;
      (4)   Those attending religious activities;
      (5)   Those engaged in interstate travel; and/or
      (6)   Those involved in an emergency situation.
   (C)   Enforcement. Upon observing, during daytime school hours, a juvenile
between the age of seven and 16 years upon any public street, road, alley, park
or in a public place of business or amusement, a police officer shall determine
if the juvenile is a truant under the terms of the Illinois School Code. If
not, the police officer shall determine the age of the juvenile and inquire
into the reasons for his or her appearance in the public place. If it appears
that the juvenile does not fall within the enumerated exceptions set forth in
division (B) above, the juvenile shall be in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 132.02) (Ord. 94-2, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 96-14, passed 12-16-
1996; Ord. 03-02, passed 2-11-2003) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose curfew, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-5
§ 132.03 LOITERING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any thoroughfare,
place open to the public or near any public or private place in a manner and
under circumstances manifesting the purpose to engage in drug-related activity
contrary to any of the provisions of this code or ordinances or the Illinois
Criminal Code.
   (B)   Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether
the purpose is “manifested”:
      (1)   The person is a known unlawful drug user, possessor or seller. For
purposes of this provision, a KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER, POSSESSOR OR SELLER is
a person who has within the knowledge of the arresting officer been convicted
in any court within the state of any violation involving the use, possession or
sale of any of the substances referred to in the Illinois Criminal Code, or the
person has been convicted of any violation of any of the provisions of the
Illinois Criminal Code, or substantially similar laws of any political
subdivision of this state or of any other state; or a person who displays
physical characteristics of drug intoxication or usage, such as “needle
tracks”; or a person who possesses drug paraphernalia as defined in the
Illinois Criminal Code;
      (2)   The person is currently subject to an order prohibiting his or her
presence in a high drug activity geographic area;
      (3)   The person behaves in such a manner as to raise a reasonable
suspicion that he or she is about to engage in or is then engaged in an lawful
drug-related activity, including by way of example only, the person acting as a
“lookout”;
      (4)   The person is physically identified by the officer as a member of a
“gang” association which has as its purpose illegal drug activity;
      (5)   The person transfers small objects or packages for currency in a
furtive fashion;
      (6)   The person takes flight upon the appearance of a police officer;
      (7)   The person manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself of
any object which reasonably could be involved in an unlawful drug-related
activity;
      (8)   The area involved is by public repute known to be an area of
unlawful drug use and trafficking; and/or
      (9)   The premises involved are known to have been reported to law
enforcement as a place suspected of drug activity.
(Prior Code, § 132.03) (Ord. 94-5, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 96-16, passed 2-3-
1997) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 SMOKE BOMBS.
   (A)   The sale, delivery, gift or possession of smoke bombs is hereby
declared unlawful within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to sell, deliver, give or
possess smoke bombs within the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 132.04) (Ord. 77-6, passed 5-23-1977) Penalty, see §
132.99
CRUISING
§ 132.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING or TO CRUISE. Operating a motor vehicle, or as a custodian thereof
to permit its operation, past a traffic-control point more than three times in
any direction within the residential cruising area during any three-hour
period.
   CUSTODIAN. Any person who is the owner of a motor vehicle or has custody
thereof and is present at the time of its operation.
   DESIGNATED AREAS. Whenever the public health, welfare and safety of the
community in a specific area is disrupted by the movement of vehicular traffic
on the streets within the village limits.
   ENFORCEMENT PERIOD. The period designated by the Director of Public Safety,
or his or her designee.
   RESTRICTED CRUISING AREA. Streets, or portions thereof, designated by the
Director of Public Safety, or his or her designee, as traffic congestion
thoroughfare.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL POINT. The point or points within the restricted cruising
area established by the Director of Public Safety for the purpose of monitoring
cruising.
(Prior Code, § 132.15) (Ord. 94-3, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 132.16 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cruise in the restricted area
during the enforcement period.
   (B)   Signs indicating that cruising is prohibited shall be posted at
periodic intervals immediately adjacent to the restricted area. The restricted
areas, their locations and times, will be designated on a need be basis, by the
Director of Public Safety.
   (C)   All signs shall read as follows:
      “No cruising from (times to be designated) between (to be designated)
street and (to be designated) street.”
(Prior Code, § 132.16) (Ord. 94-3, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, §
132.99
§ 132.17 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of the subchapter shall not be applicable to the
operator of any municipal, police, fire, emergency vehicle, utility or
governmental vehicle when same is being operated in an official capacity.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be applicable to the
operator of any licensed public transportation vehicle or any vehicle being
utilized for business or commercial purposes.
(Prior Code, § 132.17) (Ord. 94-3, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 132.18 VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Seizure. A motor vehicle, operated with the knowledge of the owner of
record that is used in the violation of this subchapter, shall be subject to
seizure and impoundment.
   (B)   Probable cause. Whenever a police officer has a probable cause to
believe that a vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment, pursuant to this
section, the police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a
facility controlled by the village or its agents. When the vehicle is towed,
the police officer shall notify the person who is found to be in control of the
vehicle at the time of the alleged violation if there is such a person, of the
fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner’s right to request a preliminary
hearing to be conducted under this section. The vehicle shall be impounded,
pending the completion of the hearings provided for below, unless the owner of
the vehicle posts with the village a cash bond in the amount of $250, plus fees
for the towing and storage of the vehicle.
   (C)   Hearings.
      (1)   The owner of the vehicle seized, pursuant to this section, may
request an immediate hearing after receiving a notice of the seizure. In cases
where an immediate hearing is not requested, a Hearing Officer of the village
shall conduct the preliminary hearing within 72 hours after the seizure. All
interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the
preliminary hearing and hearsay evidence shall be admissible. If, after the
hearing, the Hearing Officer determines that there is probable cause to believe
that the vehicle, operated with the knowledge of the owner, was used in
commission of a violation of this section, the Hearing Officer shall order the
continued impoundment of the vehicle as provided in this section, unless the
owner of the vehicle posts with the village a cash bond in the amount of $250,
plus fees for the towing and storage of the vehicle. If the Hearing Officer
determines that there is no probable cause, the vehicle shall be returned
without penalty or other fees.
      (2)   Within ten days after a vehicle is seized and impounded, pursuant
to this section, the village shall notify by certified mail, return receipt
requested, the owner of record of the date, time and location of a hearing that
will be conducted pursuant to this section. The hearing shall be conducted no
later than 45 days after the vehicle was seized. All interested persons shall
be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. If, after the
hearing, the Hearing Officer determines by a preponderance of evidence that the
vehicle, operated with the knowledge of the owner, was used in commission of a
violation of this section, the Hearing Officer shall enter an order requiring
the vehicle to continue to be impounded until the owner pays a penalty of $250,
plus fees for the towing and storage of the vehicle. The penalty and fees shall
be a debt due and owing the village. However, if a cash bond has been posted,
the bond shall be applied to the penalty. If the Hearing Officer determines
that the vehicle was not knowingly used in the violation, the Hearing Officer
shall order the return of the vehicle or cash bond.
   (D)   Unclaimed vehicles.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed within 45 days after the
expiration of the time during which the owner of record may seek administrative
review of the village’s action under this section, or the time at which a final
judgement is rendered in favor of the village, may be disposed of as an
unclaimed vehicle as provided by law.
      (2)   As used in this section, the OWNER OF RECORD of a vehicle means the
record title holder.
(Prior Code, § 132.18) (Ord. 94-3, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any provision of this chapter for which no specific penalty is
prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any juvenile who is found guilty of violating the terms of §
132.02 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500 for each offense.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of a juvenile
found to be in violation of §
132.02 to knowingly permit or allow the juvenile to be upon public lands or in
public places during hours in which school is in session. Any parent or legal
guardian found guilty of violating the terms of §
132.02 shall be fined a sum not to exceed $100 for the first offense; $250 for
the second offense; $500 for the third offense and each and every subsequent
offense.
   (C)   (1)   Upon a finding of guilty for violation of §
132.03, there shall be imposed a fine up to $500. In addition to the fine, the
court may require that a party guilty of violating this section shall
participate in community service. If a minor shall fail to pay a fine lawfully
imposed on him or her, the parents or legal guardian of the minor shall be
jointly and severally liable for the fine.
      (2)   Any person who is found guilty of violating §
132.03 shall be fined a sum not less than $50, nor more than $500, for each
offense.
   (D)   Any person violating §§
132.15 through
132.18 shall be guilty of a traffic infraction and shall be subject to a fine
of up to $500. A separate offense shall be deemed to be committed for each
successive trip past a traffic-control point after a violation has occurred.
(Prior Code, § 132.99) (Ord. 94-2, passed 6-6-1994; Ord 94-3, passed 6-6-1994;
Ord. 94-5, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 96-14, passed 12-16-1996)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer or correctional institution
employee
   
133.02   Refusing to aid an officer
   
133.03   Tampering with public notice
§ 133.01 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER OR CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION
EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct the performance by one
known to the person to be a peace officer or correctional institution employee
of any authorized act within his or her official capacity.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION
EMPLOYEE shall mean any person employed to supervise and control inmates
incarcerated in a penitentiary, state farm, reformatory, prison, jail, house of
correction, police detention area, half-way house or other institution or place
for the incarceration or custody of persons under sentence for offenses or
awaiting trial or sentence for offenses, under arrest for an offense, a
violation of probation, a violation of parole or a violation of mandatory
supervised release, or awaiting a bail setting hearing or preliminary hearing.
(Prior Code, § 133.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1
§ 133.02 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   No person, upon command, shall refuse or knowingly reasonably fail to aid a
person known by him or her to be a police officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-8) (Prior Code, § 133.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   No person shall knowingly and without lawful authority alter, destroy,
deface, remove or conceal any public notice posted according to law, during the
time for which the notice was to remain posted.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 32-9) (Prior Code, § 133.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Public indecency
   
134.02   Obscenity
   
134.03   Harmful material
   
134.04   Registration of sex offenders
§ 134.01 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   A person knowingly or intentionally commits a public indecency in a
public place if he or she:
      (1)   Engages in sexual intercourse;
      (2)   Engages in deviate sexual conduct;
      (3)   Appears in a state of nudity; or
      (4)   Fondles the genitals of himself, herself or another person.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NUDITY. The exposure of male or female genitals, pubic area, female
breasts with less than a full opaque covering the nipples thereof, human male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered,
or that portion of the buttocks which would be covered by a properly worn
“thong” type bikini bottom.
      PUBLIC PLACE.
         (a)   Any location frequented by the public, or where the public is
present or likely to be present, or where a person may reasonably be expected
to be observed by members of the public. Public places include, but are not
limited to, streets, sidewalks, pools, business and commercial establishments
(whether for-profit or not-for-profit and whether open to the public at large
or where entrance is limited by a coverage charge or membership requirement),
hotels, motels, restaurants, nightclubs, country clubs, cabarets and meeting
facilities utilized by social, fraternal or similar organizations. Premises
used solely as a private residence, whether permanent or temporary in routine,
shall not be deemed a PUBLIC PLACE. PUBLIC PLACES shall not include enclosed
single sex public restrooms, enclosed single sex functional showers, locker
and/or dressing room facilities, enclosed motel rooms and hotel rooms designed
and intended for sleeping accommodations, doctors’ offices, churches,
synagogues or similar places when used for circumcisions, baptisms or similar
religious ceremonies, portions of hospitals or similar places in which nudity
or exposure is necessarily and customarily expected outside of the home; nor
shall it include a person appearing in a state of nudity in a modeling class
operated by:
            1.   A proprietary school licensed by the state; a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
            2.   A private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or a university supported entirely or partly by taxation or an
accredited private college.
         (b)   The definition of PUBLIC PLACE set forth above shall be
interpreted to be no more broad than the definition of “public place” set forth
in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-30 (formerly Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 38, § 11-9) as
upheld by the Illinois Supreme Court in People v. Garrison. 82 Ill.2d 444, 412
N.E.2d 483 (1980).
   (C)   This section is patterned after and shall be interpreted in the same
manner as the Indiana Public Indecency Statute held Constitutional by the
United States Supreme Court in Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc. 501 U.S. 560, 111
S.Ct. 2456 (1991).
(Prior Code, § 134.01) (Ord. passed 95-8, passed 10-2-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20
§ 134.02 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver
or provide any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; and/or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   “Obscene” defined. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults; except
that, it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, the evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.
      (3)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of the people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material; and
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
   (D)   Prima facie evidence. The creation, purchase, procurement or
possession of a mold, engraved plate, or other embodiment of obscenity
specially adapted for reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more
than three copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an
intent to disseminate.
   (E)   Affirmative defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      (1)   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age; and/or
      (2)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of the material.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20) (Prior Code, § 134.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. No person, with knowledge that a person is a
child (that is, a person under 18 years of age), or who fails to exercise
reasonable care in ascertaining the true age of a child, shall knowingly
distribute to, send or cause to be sent to, or exhibit to, or offer to
distribute or exhibit any harmful material to a child.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
      HARMFUL. Material is HARMFUL if, to the average person, applying
contemporary standards, its predominant appeal, taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest, that is a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex or
excretion, which goes substantially beyond customary limits of candor in
description or representation of the matters, and is material the redeeming
social importance of which is substantially less than its prurient appeal.
      KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter, or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents thereof.
      MATERIAL. Any writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall
be judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the
child to whom the material was offered, distributed, sent or exhibited, unless
it appears from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its
dissemination, distribution or exhibition that it is designed for specially
susceptible groups, in which case the predominant appeal of the material shall
be judged with reference to its intended or probable recipient group.
      (2)   In prosecutions under this section, where circumstances of
production, presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution or publicity
indicate the material is being commercially exploited for the sake of its
prurient appeal, the evidence is probative with respect to the nature of the
material and can justify the conclusion that the redeeming social importance of
the material is in fact substantially less than its prurient appeal.
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any public library or any
library operated by an accredited institution of higher education from
circulating harmful material to any person under 18 years of age; provided, the
circulation is in aid of a legitimate scientific or educational purpose; and it
shall be an affirmative defense in any prosecution for a violation of this
section that the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific or
educational purposes.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any parent from distributing
to his or her child any harmful material.
      (3)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown and acted in reliance
upon any of the following documents as proof of the age of a child shall be a
defense to any criminal prosecution under this section: a document issued by
the federal government or any state, county or village government or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator’s license, a registration certificate issued under the Federal
Selective Service Act or an identification card issued to a member of the Armed
Forces.
      (4)   In the event an advertisement of harmful material, as defined in
this section, culminates in the sale or distribution of harmful material to a
child, under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his or her employees, or agents, as where the order or
request for harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone or similar
means of communication, and delivery of the harmful material to the child was
by mail, freight or similar means of transport, it shall be a defense in any
prosecution for a violation of this section that the advertisement contained
the following statement, or a statement substantially similar thereto, and that
the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he was not under 18 years
of age and that the purchaser falsely stated that he or she was not under 18
years of age:
   “NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to purchase the
matter herein advertised. Any person under 18 years of age who falsely states
that he is not under 18 years of age for the purpose of obtaining the material
advertised herein, is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor under the laws of the
state of Illinois and a violation of § 134.03 of the Village Code of
Ordinances.”
   (E)   Child falsifying age. No person under 18 years of age shall falsely
state, either orally or in writing, that he or she is not under the age of 18
years, or present or offer to any person any evidence of age and identity which
is false or not actually his or her own for the purpose of ordering, obtaining,
viewing or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure or view any harmful
material.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-21) (Prior Code, § 134.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.04 REGISTRATION OF SEX OFFENDERS.
   All convicted sex offenders residing within the corporate limits of the
village shall be required to register with the village Police Department and
pay a registration fee in the amount of $150 for initial registration and $100
for annual renewal.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 5-14-2019)
CHAPTER 135: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Gambling
   
135.03   Keeping a gambling place
   
135.04   Seizure of gambling devices and gambling funds
Simulated Video Gaming Devices
   
135.15   Definitions
   
135.16   Unlawful use
 
   
135.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill,
or upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A GAMBLING DEVICE does
not include video gaming terminals, nor does it include the following, as more
specifically defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 28-2(a)(1) through (a)(4):
      (1)   Coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical devices;
      (2)   Vending machines;
      (3)   Crane games; and/or
      (4)   Redemption machines.
   LOTTERY. Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win prizes, whether the scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle, gift,
sale or some other name.
   POLICY GAME. Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall, in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery, entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. Any licensed electronic video gaming machine offered
for play by licensed establishments operated in accordance with the Video
Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq., and the provisions of this
code.
(Prior Code, § 135.01) (Ord. 13-01, passed 1-22-2013; Ord. 19-14, passed 9-24-
2019)
Statutory reference:
   Gambling definitions, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2
§ 135.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   A person commits gambling when, within the corporate limits of the
village, he or she:
      (1)   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of value,
unless excepted in division (B) below;
      (2)   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any political
nomination, appointment or election;
      (3)   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures or distributes any gambling
device;
      (4)   Contracts to have or give himself, herself or another the option to
buy or sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or other
commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, as described in
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1(a)(4);
      (5)   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he or she has received in the courses of a
bet or wager;
      (6)   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment or election;
      (7)   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell or
transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      (8)   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record, document or
other similar device;
      (9)   Knowingly drafts, prints or publishes any lottery ticket or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of the state or any other state or
foreign government;
      (10)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of the state or any other state; or
      (11)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of the information; except that, nothing in this division (A)(11)
prohibits transmission or receipt of the information for use in news reporting
of sporting events or contests.
   (B)   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted
of gambling:
      (1)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including, without limitation, contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance;
      (2)   Offers of prizes, awards or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in the contest;
      (3)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of the state;
      (4)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside the state when the
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law;
      (5)   The game commonly known as “bingo”, when conducted in accordance
with ILCS Ch. 230, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (6)   Lotteries when conducted by the state in accordance with ILCS Ch.
20, Act 1605, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (7)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this division (B)(7), an ANTIQUE
SLOT MACHINE is one manufactured 25 years ago or earlier;
      (8)   Raffles and poker runs when conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch.
230, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (9)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 230,
Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (10)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under ILCS Ch. 230, Act 20,
§§ 1 et seq.; and
      (11)   Gambling games conducted on riverboats when authorized under ILCS
Ch. 230, Act 10, §§ 1 et seq.
      (12)   Video gaming offered for play by licensed establishments operated
in accordance with Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq., and
the provisions of this code.
   (C)   In prosecutions under division (A) of this section, circumstantial
evidence shall have the same validity and weight as in any criminal
prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 135.02) (Ord. 13-01, passed 1-22-2013; Ord. 19-14, passed 9-24-
2019) Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Gambling, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1 et seq.
§ 135.03 KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a GAMBLING PLACE is any real estate,
vehicle, boat or any other property whatsoever used for the purposes of
gambling, other than gambling conducted in the manner authorized by the Video
Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq., and the provisions of this
code. No person shall knowingly permit any premises or property owned or
occupied by him or her or under his or her control to be used as a gambling
place.
   (B)   When any premises is determined by the Circuit Court to be a gambling
place:
      (1)   The premises is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be
proceeded against as such; and
      (2)   The premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a
violation of any section of this chapter shall be held liable for and may be
sold to pay any unsatisfied judgement that may be recovered and any unsatisfied
fine that may be levied under any section of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 135.03) (Ord. 13-01, passed 1-22-2013; Ord. 19-14, passed 9-24-
2019) Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Keeping a gambling place, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-3
§ 135.04 SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   (A)   Every device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use or
every device used unlawfully for gambling shall be considered a gambling device
and shall be subject to seizure, confiscation and destruction by village
authorities. As used in this section, a GAMBLING DEVICE includes any slot
machine and includes any machine or device constructed for the reception of
money or other thing of value and so constructed as to return or cause someone
to return on chance to the player thereof money, property or a right to receive
money or property, other than a video gaming terminal conducted in the manner
authorized by the Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq., and the
provisions of this code. With the exception of any device designed for gambling
which is incapable of lawful use, no gambling device shall be forfeited or
destroyed unless an individual with a property interest in the device knows of
the unlawful use thereof.
   (B)   Every gambling device shall be seized and forfeited as contraband to
the county wherein the seizure occurs. Any money or other thing of value
integrally related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited as
contraband to the county wherein the seizure occurs.
(Prior Code, § 135.04) (Ord. 13-01, passed 1-22-2013; Ord. 19-14, passed 9-24-
2019)
Statutory reference:
   Seizure of gambling devices and gambling funds, see ILCS Ch.720, Act 5, §
28-5
SIMULATED VIDEO GAMING DEVICES
§ 135.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or association who sets
up for operation by another, or leases or distributes for the purpose of
operation by another, any device, as herein defined, whether the setting up for
operation, leasing or distribution be for a fixed charge or rental, on the
basis of a division of the income derived from the device or otherwise.
   PROPRIETOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or club
who, as the owner/lessee or proprietor, has under his, her or its control any
establishment, place or premises in or at which the device is placed or kept
for use or play, or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play.
   SIMULATED VIDEO GAMING DEVICE. Video poker machine, video slot machine,
video bingo machine, any other device which involves any game or amusement
based upon poker, blackjack, horseracing, craps, any card or dice game or any
similar amusement machine or device operated by means of the insertion of a
coin, token, currency or similar object, for the purpose of amusement only for
which a fee is charged.
(Ord. 00-01, passed 5-15-2000; Ord. 19-14, passed 9-24-2019)
§ 135.16 UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership,
association, non-for-profit organization to possess, own, lease or operate on
licensed premises any simulated video gaming devices within the village as the
terms are herein defined, as set forth herein, other than in a manner
authorized by the Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq., and the
provisions of this code.
(Ord. 00-01, passed 5-15-2000; Ord. 13-01, passed 1-22-2013; Ord. 19-14, passed
9-24-2019) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
135.15 and
135.16 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $1,000, for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues. Any firm, corporation, partnership,
association, non-for-profit organization licensed to operate a business within
the village that possesses, owns, leases or operates a simulated video gaming
devices on its premises may be subject to revocation of its business license
for a violation described herein.
(Ord. 00-01, passed 5-15-2000)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Littering
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Dumping or depositing of litter prohibited; exemptions
   
136.03   Dumping or depositing litter from motor vehicle prohibited
   
136.04   Accumulation of litter prohibited
   
136.05   Presumption of violation by operator throwing litter from motor
vehicle
   
136.06   Receptacles required in public areas
   
136.07   Power of court to order removal of litter
 
   
136.99   Penalty
LITTERING
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. Any discarded, used or unconsumed substance or waste. LITTER may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish,
grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste; newspaper, magazines, glass,
metal, plastic or paper containers or other packaging construction material,
abandoned vehicle, as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-201 et seq., motor
vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous or
offensive matter of any kind; any object likely to injure any person or create
a traffic hazard; or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, which
has been discarded, abandoned or otherwise disposed of improperly.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in Ch. 70 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 136.01)
§ 136.02 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING OF LITTER PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS.
   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause or permit
the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of litter
upon any public or private property in the village, or upon or into any river,
lake, pond or other stream or body of water in the village unless:
   (A)   The property has been designated by the village or any of its agencies
for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the State Pollution
Control Board;
   (B)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended by
the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
   (C)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the property
or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession,
or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant
and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public nuisance or a
fire hazard;
   (D)   The person is acting pursuant to special cleanup days established by
the Board of Trustees; and/or
   (E)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency situation
where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly disposes of any
litter when the emergency situation no longer exists.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 4 and 8) (Prior Code, § 136.02) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.03 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard or otherwise dispose of
litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any public or
private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream or body of water
in the village, except as permitted under §
136.02. Nor shall any person transport, by any means, garbage or refuse from
any dwelling, residence, place of business, farm or other site to and deposit
the material in, around or on top of trash barrels or other receptacles placed
along public highways or at roadside rest areas.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 5 and 8) (Prior Code, § 136.03) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.04 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of which the
person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in a manner as to constitute
a public nuisance or in a manner that the litter may be blown or otherwise
carried by the natural elements on to the real property of another person.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 6 and 8) (Prior Code, § 136.04) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.05 PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATION BY OPERATOR THROWING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that the
operator of that motor vehicle has violated §
136.03, but that presumption may be rebutted.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 9) (Prior Code, § 136.05)
§ 136.06 RECEPTACLES REQUIRED IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   In order to assist the public in complying with this subchapter, the
owner or person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a
place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation or as a public
way shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the deposit of
litter of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the
numbers of people customarily coming on or using the property.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE
TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS includes, but is not limited to, commercially operated
parks, campgrounds, drive-in restaurants, automobile service stations, business
parking lots, car washes, shopping centers, marinas, boat launching areas,
industrial parking lots, boat moorage and fueling stations, piers, beaches and
bathing areas, airports, roadside rest stops, drive-in movies and shopping
malls; and PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR ASSEMBLAGE, RECREATION, OR AS A
PUBLIC WAY includes, but is not limited to, any property that is publicly owned
or operated for any of the purposes stated in the definition in this division
(B) for PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS, but
excludes state highway rights-of-way and rest areas located thereon.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 10) (Prior Code, § 136.06)
§ 136.07 POWER OF COURT TO ORDER REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   The penalties prescribed in this subchapter are in addition to, and not in
lieu of, any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or liabilities which may be
otherwise imposed or conferred by a court.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8) (Prior Code, § 136.07)
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
136.02 shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 136.02)
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
136.03 shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 136.03)
   (D)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
136.04 shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 136.04)
   (E)   If no litter receptacles are placed on property described in §
136.06, the owner or person in control of the property shall be fined $100 for
violating §
136.06. If the owner or person in control of the property has placed litter
receptacles on his or her property, but the number or size of the receptacles
has proved inadequate to meet the needs of the numbers of people coming on or
using his or her property as indicated by the condition and appearance of that
property, and the owner or person in control has failed to provide sufficient
or adequate receptacles within ten days after being made aware of that fact by
written notice from the police, he or she shall be fined $25 for each
receptacle not so provided and maintained.
(Prior Code, § 136.06)
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 4, 5, 6, 8, 10)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS
Section
Deadly Weapons
   
137.01   Unlawful use of weapons
   
137.02   Exemptions
   
137.03   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
   
137.04   Defacing identification marks of firearms
   
137.05   Confiscation and disposition of weapons
 
   
137.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Firearms and ammunition registration, see ILCS Ch. 430, Act 65, §§ 0.01
through 16.3
DEADLY WEAPONS
§ 137.01 UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly:
      (1)   Sell, manufacture, purchase, possesses or carry any bludgeon,
black-jack, slung-shot, sand-club, sand-bag, metal knuckles or other knuckle
weapon regardless of its composition, throwing star, or any knife, commonly
referred to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically
by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of
the knife, or a ballistic knife, which is a device that propels a knifelike
blade as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic material or compressed
gas;
      (2)   Carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument of like character;
      (2.5)   Carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, any firearm in a church, synagogue, mosque, or other building,
structure, or place used for religious worship;
      (3)   Carry on or about his or her person or in any vehicle, a tear gas
gun projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a non-lethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person 18 years of age or
older;
      (4)   Carry or possess in any vehicle or concealed on or about his or her
person except when on his or her land or in his or her own abode, legal
dwelling, or fixed place of business, or on the land or in the legal dwelling
of another person as an invitee with that person's permission, any pistol,
revolver, stun gun or taser or other firearm, except that this division (A)(4)
does not apply to or affect transportation of weapons that meet one of the
following conditions:
         (a)   Are broken down in a non-functioning state; or
         (b)   Are not immediately accessible; or
         (c)   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box, or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid Firearm Owner's Identification Card; or
         (d)   Are carried or possessed in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act by a person who has been issued a currently valid license
under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act;
      (5)   Set a spring gun;
      (6)   Carry or possess on or about his or her person, upon any public
street, alley, or other public lands within the corporate limits of the
village, except when an invitee thereon or therein, for the purpose of the
display of such weapon or the lawful commerce in weapons, or except when on his
or her land or in his or her own abode, legal dwelling, or fixed place of
business, or on the land or in the legal dwelling of another person as an
invitee with that person's permission, any pistol, revolver, stun gun, or taser
or other firearm, except that this division (A)(6) does not apply to or affect
transportation of weapons that meet one of the following conditions:
         (a)   Are broken down in a non-functioning state;
         (b)   Are not immediately accessible;
         (c)   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box, or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid Firearm Owner's Identification Card; or
         (d)   Are carried or possessed in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act by a person who has been issued a currently valid license
under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act;
      (7)   Sell, manufacture, deliver, import, possess, or purchase any
assault weapon attachment or .50 caliber cartridge in violation of ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 24-1.9 or any explosive bullet. For purposes of this division
(A), EXPLOSIVE BULLET means the projectile portion of an ammunition cartridge
which contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon contact
with the flesh of a human or an animal. CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal case
having a projectile affixed at the front thereof and a cap or primer at the
rear end thereof, with the propellant contained in such tube between the
projectile and the cap;
      (8)   Carry or possess on or about his or her person while in a building
occupied by a unit of government, a billy club, other weapon of like character,
or other instrument of like character intended for use as a weapon. For the
purposes of this section, BILLY CLUB means a short stick or club commonly
carried by police officers which is either telescopic or constructed of a solid
piece of wood or other man-made material; or
      (9)   Carry or possess any assault weapon or .50 caliber rifle in
violation of ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1.9.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Crossbows, common or compound bows and underwater spearguns are
exempted from the definition of ballistic knife as defined in division (A)(1)
of this section.
      (2)   The provision of division (A)(1) of this section prohibiting the
sale, manufacture, purchase, possession, or carrying of any knife, commonly
referred to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically
by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of
the knife, does not apply to a person who possesses a currently valid Firearm
Owner's Identification Card previously issued in his or her name by the
Illinois State Police or to a person or an entity engaged in the business of
selling or manufacturing switchblade knives.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1) (Prior Code, § 137.01) Penalty, see §
137.99
Statutory reference:
   Sentencing for felony violations, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(b)
   Violations for specific places, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(c)
§ 137.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Section
137.01(A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(6) and (A)(8) does not apply to or affect any of the
following:
      (1)   Peace officers or any person summoned by a peace officer to assist
in making arrests or preserving the peace while actually engaged in assisting
the officer;
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty or while
commuting between their homes and place of employment;
      (3)   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard or the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
while in the performance of their official duty;
      (4)   Special agents employed by a railroad or a public utility to
perform police functions or guards of armored car companies while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or commuting
between their homes and places of employment; watchpersons while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment;
      (5)   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private
detectives, or private alarm contractors, or employed by a private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor agency licensed by
the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, if their duties
include the carrying of a weapon under the provisions of the Private Detective,
Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004,
while actually engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or
commuting between their homes and places of employment. A person shall be
considered eligible for this exemption if he or she has completed the required
20 hours of training for a private security contractor, private detective, or
private alarm contractor, or employee of a licensed private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor agency and 28 hours
of required firearm training, and has been issued a firearm control card by the
Department of Financial and Professional Regulation. Conditions for the renewal
of firearm control cards issued under the provisions of this section shall be
the same as for those cards issued under the provisions of the Private
Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith
Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall be carried by the private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor, or employee of the
licensed private security contractor, private detective, or private alarm
contractor agency at all times when he or she is in possession of a concealable
weapon permitted by his or her firearm control card.
      (6)   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial
operation as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to the commercial or industrial operation, while
actually engaged in the performance of his or her duty or traveling between
sites or properties belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is
a member of a security force registered with the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation; provided that the security guard has successfully
completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 48 hours of
training that includes the theory of law enforcement, liability for acts, and
the handling of weapons. A person shall be considered eligible for this
exemption if he or she has completed the required 20 hours of training for a
security officer and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued
a firearm control card by the Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation. Conditions for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under
the provisions of this section shall be the same as for those cards issued
under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security,
Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall
be carried by the security guard at all times when he or she is in possession
of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her firearm control card.
      (7)   Agents and investigators of the Illinois Legislative Investigating
Commission authorized by the Commission to carry the weapons specified in §
137.01(A)(3) and (A)(4) while on duty in the course of any investigation for
the Commission;
      (8)   Persons employed by a financial institution as a security guard for
the protection of other employees and property related to the financial
institution, while actually engaged in the performance of their duties,
commuting between their homes and places of employment, or traveling between
sites or properties owned or operated by such financial institution, and who,
as a security guard, is a member of a security force registered with the
Department; provided that any person so employed has successfully completed a
course of study, approved by and supervised by the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 48 hours of training which
includes theory of law enforcement, liability for acts, and the handling of
weapons. A person shall be considered to be eligible for this exemption if he
or she has completed the required 20 hours of training for a security officer
and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued a firearm
control card by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation.
Conditions for renewal of firearm control cards issued under the provisions of
this section shall be the same as for those issued under the provisions of the
Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and
Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall be carried by the
security guard at all times when he or she is in possession of a concealable
weapon permitted by his or her firearm control card. For purposes of this
division, FINANCIAL INSTITUTION means a bank, savings and loan association,
credit union or company providing armored car services.
      (9)   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored
car while actually engaged in the performance of his or her duties;
      (10)   Persons who have been classified as peace officers pursuant to the
Peace Officer Fire Investigation Act;
      (11)   Investigators of the Office of the State’s Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor authorized by the Board of Governors of the Office of the State’s
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor to carry weapons pursuant to Section 7.06 of the
State’s Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor’s Act;
      (12)   Special investigators appointed by a State’s Attorney under
Section 3-9005 of the Counties Code;
      (12.5)   Probation officers while in the performance of their duties, or
while commuting between their homes, places of employment or specific locations
that are part of their assigned duties, with the consent of the chief judge of
the circuit for which they are employed, if they have received weapons training
according to requirements of the Peace Officer and Probation Officer Firearm
Training Act;
      (13)   Court Security Officers while in the performance of their official
duties, or while commuting between their homes and places of employment, with
the consent of the Sheriff.
      (13.5)   A person employed as an armed security guard at a nuclear
energy, storage, weapons or development site or facility regulated by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission who has completed the background screening and
training mandated by the rules and regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission.
      (14)   Manufacture, transportation, or sale of weapons to persons
authorized under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(13.5) of this section to possess
those weapons.
   (A-5)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(6) of this section do not apply to or
affect any person carrying a concealed pistol, revolver, or handgun and the
person has been issued a currently valid license under the Firearm Concealed
Carry Act at the time of the commission of the offense.
   (A-6)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(10) of this section do not apply to or
affect a qualified current or retired law enforcement officer or a current or
retired deputy, county correctional officer, or correctional officer of the
Department of Corrections qualified under the laws of this state or under the
federal Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act.
   (B)   Section
137.01(A)(4) and (A)(6) does not apply to or affect any of the following:
      (1)   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, or patrons of the ranges while the members or patrons are using
their firearms on those target ranges;
      (2)   Duly authorized military or civil organizations while parading with
the special permission of the Governor;
      (3)   Hunters, trappers, or fishermen while engaged in lawful hunting,
trapping, or fishing under the provisions of the Wildlife Code or the Fish and
Aquatic Life Code;
      (4)   Transportation of weapons broken down in a non-functioning state or
not immediately accessible; and/or
      (5)   Carrying or possessing any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or
other firearm on the land or in the legal dwelling of another person as an
invitee with that person's permission.
   (C)   Section
137.01(A)(1) does not apply to the purchase, possession or carrying of a black-
jack or slung-shot by a police officer.
   (D)   Section
137.01(A)(4) and (A)(6) does not apply to members of any club or organization
organized for the purpose of practicing shooting at targets upon established
target ranges, whether public or private, while using their firearms on those
target ranges.
   (E)   Section
137.01(A)(13) does not apply to:
      (1)   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard, while in the performance of their
official duty;
      (2)   Bona fide collectors of antique or surplus military ordnance;
      (3)   Laboratories having a department of forensic ballistics, or
specializing in the development of ammunition or explosive ordnance; or
      (4)   Commerce, preparation, assembly or possession of explosive bullets
by manufacturers of ammunition licensed by the federal government, in
connection with the supply of those organizations and persons exempted by
division (E)(1) above, or like organizations and persons outside the state, or
the transportation of explosive bullets to any organization or person exempted
in this section by a common carrier or by a vehicle owned or leased by an
exempted manufacturer.
   (F)   Section
137.01(A)(4) and (A)(6) do not apply to or affect any parole agent or parole
supervisor who meets the qualifications and conditions prescribed in Section 3-
14-1.5 of the Unified Code of Corrections.
   (G)   An information or indictment based upon a violation of any provision
of this subchapter need not negative any exemptions contained in this
subchapter. The defendant shall have the burden of proving such an exemption.
   (H)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to or affect the
transportation, carrying or possession of any pistol or revolver, stun gun,
taser or other firearm consigned to a common carrier operating under license of
the state or the federal government where the transportation, carrying or
possession is incident to the lawful transportation in which the common carrier
is engaged. Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to or affect the
transportation, carrying or possession of any pistol, revolver, stun gun, taser
or other firearm not the subject of and regulated by ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-
1(a)(7), or division (C) of this section above, which is unloaded and enclosed
in a case, firearm carrying box, shipping box or other container by the
possessor of a valid Firearm Owners Identification Card.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-2) (Prior Code, § 137.02)
§ 137.03 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND FIREARM AMMUNITION.
   A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of firearms or firearm
ammunition when:
   (A)   He or she is under 18 years of age and has in his or her possession
any firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person;
   (B)   He or she is under 21 years of age, has been convicted of a
misdemeanor other than a traffic offense or adjudged delinquent and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession;
   (C)   He or she has been convicted of a felony under the laws of this or any
other jurisdiction and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her
possession;
   (D)   He or she is a narcotic addict and has any firearms or firearm
ammunition in his or her possession;
   (E)   He or she has been a patient in a mental hospital within the past five
years and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession;
   (F)   He or she is a person with an intellectual disability and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession; and/or
   (G)   (1)   He or she has in his or her possession any explosive bullet.
      (2)   For the purpose of division (G)(1) above, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         CARTRIDGE. A tubular metal case having a projectile fixed at the front
thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end thereof with the propellent
contained in the tube between the projectile and the cap.
         EXPLOSIVE BULLET. The projectile portion of an ammunition cartridge
which contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon contact
with the flesh of a human or an animal.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1) (Prior Code, § 137.03) Penalty, see §
137.99
§ 137.04 DEFACING IDENTIFICATION MARKS OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall change, alter, remove or obliterate the name of the
maker, model, manufacturer’s number or other mark of identification of any
firearm.
   (B)   Possession of any firearm upon which any such mark shall have been
changed, altered, removed or obliterated shall be prima facie evidence that the
possessor has changed, altered, removed or obliterated the same.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-5) (Prior Code, § 137.04) Penalty, see §
137.99
§ 137.05 CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS.
   Upon conviction of an offense in which a weapon was used or possessed by the
offender, any weapon seized shall be confiscated by the trial court for further
disposition consistent with state law.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-6) (Prior Code, § 137.05)
§ 137.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99.
CHAPTER 138: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Unlawful possession of cannabis
   
   
138.99   Penalty
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNABIS. This term shall have the meaning ascribed to it in ILCS Ch. 720,
Act 550, § 3, as if that definition were incorporated herein.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. This term shall have the meaning ascribed to it in
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 102 as if that definition were incorporated herein.
(Ord. 17-24, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 138.02 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF CANNABIS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess less than 100
grams of any substance containing cannabis.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any person who has been authorized by the Illinois Department of
Public Health, Department of Mental Health and Development Disabilities with
the approval of the Department of Law Enforcement to possess and/or deliver
substances containing cannabis; and
      (2)   Persons registered under federal law to conduct research with
cannabis.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, CANNABIS shall mean marijuana, hasish
and other substances which are identified as including any part of the plant
“Cannabis Sativa,” whether growing or not; the seed thereof, the resin
extracted from any part of such plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds or resin, including
tetrahydrocannbinol (THC) and all other cannabinol derivitatives, including its
naturally occurring or synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced
directly or indirectly by extraction, or independently by means of  chemical
synthesis, but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber
produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant, and
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom) fiber, oil or cake or
sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
(Ord. 17-24, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 19-02, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violation of this section shall be a fine in an amount not
less than $100 but no more than $500.
(Ord. 17-24, passed 11-14-2017)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING STANDARDS
      
151.   FAIR HOUSING STANDARDS
      
152.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
      
155.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
156.   FLOODPLAINS
      
157.   BLIGHT ELIMINATION PROGRAM
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Purpose
   
150.002   Compliance
   
150.003   Occupancy requirements; certificate of occupancy
   
150.004   Village approval required to build, alter, move or demolish
structures
   
150.005   Quality of materials and workmanship
   
150.006   Certificate of compliance; inspections
   
150.007   Right of entry
   
150.008   Expansion of single-family dwellings
   
150.009   Codes adopted
Permits; Fees
   
150.020   Applications to be filed with Building Inspector
   
150.021   Plans and specifications to be filed in duplicate with application
   
150.022   Recommendation of Building Inspector; issuance of permit
   
150.023   Essentials of plans
   
150.024   Architect or engineer to certify plans
   
150.025   Alterations to and deviations from plans
   
150.026   Changes prohibited
   
150.027   Small or unimportant work
   
150.028   Fees
   
150.029   Permit fees
   
150.030   Exemptions to fees
   
150.031   Limitation
   
150.032   Waiver
   
150.033   Metropolitan Sanitary District permits
   
150.034   Restoration fee of public property
Minimum Standards
   
150.045   Residence buildings
   
150.046   Garages
   
150.047   Business buildings
   
150.048   Screening for waste receptacles
Plumbing Code
   
150.060   Chicago Code adopted by reference
   
150.061   Inspection fees adopted by reference
   
150.062   Plastic pipe
   
150.063   Notice of works to be hidden
   
150.064   Overhead plumbing and footing drains
Electrical Code
   
150.075   Chicago Code adopted by reference
   
150.076   Inspection fees
   
150.077   Notice of works to be hidden
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.090   Definition
   
150.091   Nuisance
   
150.092   Prohibited
   
150.093   Abatement
   
150.094   Damage by fire; decay and the like
Fences
   
150.105   Definitions
   
150.106   Requirements
   
150.107   Permit
   
150.108   Construction
Moving Buildings
   
150.120   Permit
   
150.121   Fee
   
150.122   Bond
Automatic Sprinkler Systems
   
150.135   Required; exceptions
   
150.136   Installation
   
150.137   Fire doors
   
150.138   Fire walls; firestops
   
150.139   Automatic sprinkler systems; automatic fire alarms
Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning
   
150.150   Codes adopted by reference
   
150.151   Licensing required
   
150.152   Permits
   
150.153   Inspections
   
150.154   Records
   
150.155   Temporary certificate of inspection
   
150.156   Procedure upon finding defects
   
150.157   Permit fees
   
150.158   Inspection fees
   
150.159   Notice of works to be hidden
   
150.160   Prohibited locations for heat-producing equipment
   
150.161   Noise abatement; air conditioning
   
150.162   Heating requirements
Inspection of Multi-Family Dwellings
   
150.175   Generally
   
150.176   Frequency of inspections
   
150.177   Inspection certificate required
   
150.178   Inspection procedure
   
150.179   Certificate expiration
   
150.180   Fee schedule
   
150.181   Certificate availability
   
150.182   Suspension or revocation of certification
   
150.183   Effective date
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide certain minimum standards,
provisions and requirements for safe and stable design, methods of construction
and uses of materials in buildings and/or structures hereafter erected,
constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, moved, converted to other uses or
demolished, and to regulate the equipment, maintenance, use and occupancy of
all buildings and/or structures.
(Prior Code, § 150.001)
§ 150.002 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All new buildings and structures hereafter erected in the village
shall conform to all requirements of this chapter. All requirements of this
chapter shall apply to new and old buildings.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, move, demolish, convert, equip, use, occupy or maintain any
building or structure or any portion of any building or structure in the
village contrary to or in violation of any provision of this code or cause,
permit or suffer the same to be done.
(Prior Code, § 150.002) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.003 OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS; CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to occupy for residence purposes in the village
any structure not built in full compliance with this code applicable to the
construction of residence buildings.
   (B)   No building shall be occupied until the exterior wall, roof, floors,
heating plant, plumbing, landscaping and sewage disposal facilities are
completed.
   (C)   No building hereafter erected shall be occupied in any part until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building Inspector. The
Inspector shall, after an application therefor has been filed by the owner or
the owner’s agent, issue a certificate for the building if, after an inspection
thereof, it is found the structure, as erected, complies with the provisions of
this chapter and other statutory and ordinance requirements applicable thereto.
The certificate shall show the use to which the structure may be put and the
maximum allowable floor loads for each floor thereof. The fee for the
inspection, before issuance of the certificate, shall be $25.
(Prior Code, § 150.003) (Ord. 88-8, passed 2-27-1989; Ord. 06-16, passed 10-24-
2006) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.004 VILLAGE APPROVAL REQUIRED TO BUILD, ALTER, MOVE OR DEMOLISH
STRUCTURES.
   No person shall erect or construct any building or structure, addition
thereto, fire escape or stairway connected therewith or enlarge, move, alter,
convert, extend or demolish any building or structure or cause the same to be
done without first obtaining approval therefor from the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 150.004) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.005 QUALITY OF MATERIALS AND WORKMANSHIP.
   (A)   All materials used in building, enlarging, altering, repairing,
moving, converting and the like, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, shall be good, sound materials.
   (B)   All construction shall be done in a good, workmanship manner.
(Prior Code, § 150.005) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.006 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Prior to issuing real estate tax stamps upon for the sale of any
vacant land, single-family residence, multiple-family residence, business,
commercial or industrial building within the village, the owner thereof shall
be required to obtain a certificate of compliance from the village.
   (B)   A certificate of compliance shall be issued by the village after an
inspection by the Building Commissioner or by a lawfully appointed deputy of
the Building Commissioner. The certificate shall set forth the finding of the
Commissioner, or his or her deputy, that the property inspected either complies
with all of the building, zoning, health and safety regulations of the village
or, in the alternative, list the violations thereof.
   (C)   Upon receiving a copy of an inspection report from the village, in the
event there are violations on the premises, the property’s owner-seller shall
represent to the village, in writing, the seller’s intention to correct the
violations and the time period necessitated for the correction thereof. In the
alternative, the purchasers of the property may represent to the village the
purchasers’ intention to correct the violation and the time period necessitated
to do so. In either event, the time period for the correction of any violations
set forth shall be reasonable with regard to those items detailed to be
violations. As a condition before issuing transfer stamps for the sale of
property, the village can require the seller to place funds in an escrow
account to ensure that the violations are corrected. The funds shall be equal
to one and one-half times the estimated cost of the corrections, unless the
Building Inspector determines that a lesser amount will be sufficient. The
funds shall be held by the village until the violations are corrected.
   (D)   Any inspection made by the Commissioner or a deputy shall bear
inspection fees as follows:
      (1)   Vacant land: $25;
      (2)   Single-family residence: $75;
      (3)   Multi-unit residential structure (apartment, hotel or motel): $50
for first unit, plus $50 for each additional unit;
      (4)   Commercial and industrial structures: $200 for buildings or units
up to 2,000 square feet, plus $75 for each additional 1,000 square feet; and
      (5)   Parking lot: $25.
   (E)   Where this section pertains to the sale of property, it shall apply to
any person either participating in the sale as owner, agent or representative
of the owner receiving a sales commission in connection with the sale.
   (F)   The inspection of any building pursuant to the terms of this section
by the Building Commissioner or deputy is for the purposes of the village only;
the results of the inspection are not to be construed as a representation of
any person of the condition of the same, nor relied upon by any persons for any
purpose other than those of the village.
(Prior Code, § 150.006) (Ord. 87-3, passed 6-22-1987; Ord. 87-8, passed 7-27-
1987; Ord. 87-11, passed 11-9-1987; Ord. 96-9, passed 9-16-1996; Ord. 97-2,
passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 04-11, passed 5-11-2004; Ord. 22-04, passed 2-8-2022;
Ord. 22-20, passed 9-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.007 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Building Inspector, and his or her authorized representatives, and
the Director of Public Safety, and his or her duly authorized representatives,
are hereby authorized to make inspections of all buildings, structures and
premises located within the village to determine their compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   For the purpose of making the inspection, the Building Inspector, and
his or her authorized representatives, and the Director of Public Safety, and
his or her authorized representatives, are hereby authorized to examine and
survey all buildings, structures and premises within the village.
   (C)   The inspections shall be made between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00
p.m. on any days, except Sunday, subject to the following standards and
conditions.
      (1)   The inspections may take place only if a complaint respecting the
premises has been received by the Director of Public Safety or Building
Inspector and the complaint, in the opinion of the Director of Public Safety or
Building Inspector, provides reasonable grounds for belief that a violation
exists or the inspection is undertaken as part of a regular inspection program.
      (2)   The inspections shall be made by the Building Inspector or division
or by any duly authorized representative upon direction of either the Director
of Public Safety or the Building Inspector.
      (3)   (a)   Any person making the inspection shall furnish to the owner
or occupant of the structure sought to be inspected, sufficient identification
and information to enable the owner or occupant to determine that he or she is
a representative of the village, and to determine the purpose of the
inspection.
         (b)   The Building Inspector or the Director of Public Safety or any
duly authorized representative upon the direction of either of the officers may
apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for a search warrant or other
legal process for the purpose of securing entry to any premises if the owner
shall refuse to grant entry.
(Prior Code, § 150.008)
§ 150.008 EXPANSION OF SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   No single-family dwelling may be expanded by construction of an additional
floor, floors or additions to existing floors to the existing dwelling unless
the construction is made in conformity with the following conditions.
   (A)   The additional floor or floors shall not contain any temporary or
permanent kitchen facilities.
   (B)   All access to the additional floor or floors shall be made by the use
of internal staircases or elevators, and all outside entrances and staircases
are specifically prohibited.
   (C)   The owner shall execute a restrictive covenant, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Village Attorney for recording in the official records of
the county, which covenant shall provide for maintenance of the structure as a
single-family residence without conversion, expansion, use or occupancy in a
multiple dwelling unit, and shall further provide that in default of the
conversion, the village may terminate occupancy of the structure and require
deconversion at the above owner’s sole cost and expense.
   (D)   The provisions hereof are not applicable if the addition is made for
the purpose of converting an existing single-family dwelling to a conforming
multiple-family dwelling in a residence district permitting same.
   (E)   In all respects, the construction shall fully comply with all other
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance, Building Code and village code as they now
exist or may hereafter be amended.
(Prior Code, § 150.009) (Ord. 92-1, passed 5-4-1992) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.009 CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts the following codes:
      (1)   International Building Code (2012 Edition).
      (2)   International Property Maintenance Code (2012 Edition).
      (3)   International Mechanical Code (2012 Edition).
      (4)   Chicago Electrical Code (2012 Edition).
      (5)   Illinois Plumbing Code (2004 Edition with amendments).
      (6)   National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Life Safety Code (2012
Edition.
      (7)   National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)ire Code (2012 Edition).
   (B)   This section shall become effective on 5-21-2013).
(Ord. 13-03, passed 4-23-2013)
PERMITS; FEES
§ 150.020 APPLICATIONS TO BE FILED WITH BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Any person desiring a building permit as required by this chapter
shall file with the Building Inspector an application therefor in writing on a
blank form to be furnished for that purpose.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall describe the land upon which the
proposed building or work is to be done, either by lot, block and/or tract or
similar general description that will readily locate the proposed building or
work.
(Prior Code, § 150.015) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.021 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS TO BE FILED IN DUPLICATE WITH APPLICATION.
   Copies of plans and specifications and a lot plan showing the location of
the proposed building and of every existing building thereon shall accompany
every application for a permit and shall be filed in duplicate with the
Inspector; provided, the Inspector may approve the issuance of a permit without
plans or specifications for garages or small or unimportant work.
(Prior Code, § 150.016) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.022 RECOMMENDATION OF BUILDING INSPECTOR; ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The application, plans and specifications filed by an applicant for a
permit shall be checked by the Building Inspector and, if found to conform with
the requirements of this code and all other laws and ordinances, the Inspector
shall submit the same with recommendations to the Board of Trustees and, upon
its approval by the Village Clerk, shall, upon receipt of the required fee,
issue a permit therefor.
   (B)   The Clerk, when issuing the permit, shall endorse in writing or stamp
both sets of plans and specifications “approved”.
      (1)   One set of plans and specifications shall be retained by the Clerk
as a public record and the other set shall be returned to the applicant.
      (2)   The set returned to the applicant shall be kept on the building or
work site at all times during which the work authorized thereby is in progress
and shall be open to inspection by public authorities.
(Prior Code, § 150.017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.023 ESSENTIALS OF PLANS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall not issue any building permit unless the
plans submitted clearly show that the building or structure, with all its
appurtenances, foundations and attachments, can be erected entirely within the
limits of the lot or tract of land upon which it is proposed to erect the
building or structure, and no permit shall authorize the use of any part of any
public highway or other public ground for the construction or maintenance of
the building or structure, except as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   In all cases, the approved plan, together with the building permits,
must be kept on the job while work is in progress.
   (C)   All plans and drawings shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one-
eighth of an inch to the foot, on paper or cloth, in ink or by some process
that will not fade or obliterate. All distances and dimensions shall be
accurately figured, and drawings made explicit and complete, showing lot lines
and the location of the exterior lines of the building in relation thereto, and
the entire ventilating, sewerage and drain pipes and the location of all
plumbing fixtures within the building.
   (D)   Each set of plans presented shall be approved by the Building
Inspector before a permit is granted. No permit shall be granted or plans
approved unless the plans are made and signed by the persons as are permitted,
under the laws of the state, to make plans for buildings, as provided for in An
Act to Provide for the Licensing of Architects and Regulating the Practice of
Architecture as a Profession in the State of Illinois, approved 6-24-1919, and
amendments thereto, or in An Act to Provide for the Licensing of Structural
Engineers, approved 6-24-1919, and any amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 150.018) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.024 ARCHITECT OR ENGINEER TO CERTIFY PLANS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any architect or structural engineer or other
persons permitted under the laws of the state to make drawings and plans, to
prepare or submit to the Building Inspector for his or her approval, any final
drawings or plans for any building or structure which does not comply with the
requirements contained in this code.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall require that all drawings and plans
submitted for approval, be accompanied by a certificate of the architect or
structural engineer preparing the drawings and plans, and that the drawings and
plans have the architect’s or structural engineer’s licensed seal stamped on
the drawings submitted.
(Prior Code, § 150.019) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.025 ALTERATIONS TO AND DEVIATIONS FROM PLANS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to erase, alter or modify any lines, figures or
coloring contained upon drawings so stamped by the Building Inspector or filed
with him or her for reference.
   (B)   If, during the progress of the execution of the work, it is desired to
deviate in any manner affecting the construction or other essentials of the
building from the terms of the application or drawing, notice of the intention
to alter or deviate shall be given to the Building Inspector, and his or her
written assent shall first be obtained before the alteration or deviation may
be made.
   (C)    Alterations in buildings which do not involve any change in their
structural parts or of their stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other means
of communication or ingress or egress or in lighting or ventilation and that
are not in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter may be made
without the permission of the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 150.020) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.026 CHANGES PROHIBITED.
   Approved plans and specifications shall not be changed, modified or altered
without permission from the Village Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 150.021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.027 SMALL OR UNIMPORTANT WORK.
   The Building Inspector may approve the issuance of a permit for the erection
and construction of a garage or small or unimportant work without Board of
Trustees approval and upon Inspector’s approval of the work, the Village Clerk
shall, upon receipt of the required fee, issue a permit therefor.
(Prior Code, § 150.022) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.028 FEES.
   The fee charged for building permits for new construction shall be
calculated at the rate of $4 per square foot of each floor of the building
(including basement) as measured by the exterior dimensions thereof. This fee
applies to both residential and commercial buildings.
(Prior Code, § 150.023) (Ord. 88-8, passed 2-13-1989; Ord. 02-23, passed 7-23-
2002; Ord. 04-17, passed 6-1-2004; Ord. 06-05, passed 2-28-2006; Ord. 11-01,
passed 1-25-2011) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.029 PERMIT FEES.
      (A)   The fees for permits shall be set forth in the following schedule.
Copies of this schedule shall be on file in the Village Clerk’s office and in
the office of the Building Inspector:
Type of Work     Permit Fees
Minimum base fee $50
Type of Work                                   Permit Fees
Minimum base fee                               $50
Air conditioning (roof mounts) 5 tons and over $150
Auctioneers                                    $175
Awnings (business)                             $50
Awnings (house)                                $25
Building and construction (general) over $250
   First $1,000 in value                    $150
   Each $1,000 or part thereafter           $25
Building site inspection                       $50
Canopies over 50 feet in width                 $150
Carport                                        $25
Catch basin (each)                             $50
Central air conditioning (residential)         $50
electrical inspection fee
Concrete work
   Under $2,000                             $75
   Work over $2,000 (per $1,000 or part     $25
thereof)
Cross-connection valve (dual check valve or    $25
RP2)
Curb (to break curb)                           $30
Deck                                           $75
Fences
   Commercial and industrial (for first 50  $75
feet)
      (for each 50 feet thereafter)      $50
   Residential (six feet maximum)           $25
Fire alarm
   First $1,000 in value                    $150
   Each additional $1,000 in value or part  $25
thereafter
Fireplaces - woodburning or gas                $100
Floor drains (each)                            $25
Footing and foundation inspection              $100
Framing inspection                             $100
Furnace installation electrical inspection fee $75
Garages (construction)                         $150
Garages (wrecking)                             $125
Heating plants (hot water/steam)               $75
Hot water heater (replacement)                 $50
Manholes (each)                                $100
Patios (10-foot x 10-foot)                     $50
Paving (asphalt)
   First $1,000 in value                    $50
   Each $1,000 or part thereafter           $25
   Over $3,500, additional inspection fee   $50
Plan review                                    $50
Plumbing in bathrooms (per fixture)            $25
Pre-fab shed                                   $25
Re-roofing or new roof
   Factory/plant
      To 7,000 square feet               $200
      7,500 square feet                  $225
      12,500 square feet and up          $300
   Residential                              $200
Sanitary storm sewer connections (per          $200
connection)
Satellite dish
   Cost of up to $3,000                     $150
   Exceeding $3,000 (per $1,000 or part     $75
thereof)
Services (electrical)
   100 ampere service                       $150
   200 ampere service                       $160
   400 ampere service                       $165
   600 ampere service                       $175
   800 ampere service                       $185
   1,000 ampere service                     $185
   1,200 ampere service                     $225
   1,600 ampere service                     $235
   2,000 ampere service                     $245
   3,000 ampere service                     $305
   4,000 ampere service                     $365
   15 and 20 ampere branch circuits
      0-50 circuits (each)               $20
      51 or more circuits (each)         $20
   Branch circuits exceeding 20 amperes all $20
circuits
   Motor or device
   Each motor or device                     $40
   Minimum electrical fee                   $55
   Reinspection electrical fee              $50
   Temporary wiring                         $60
   Extra inspection fee (per hour)          $60
   Carnivals (per hour)                     $60
   Vaults (except utility owned)            $60
   Burglar alarms (per hour)                $60
   Aural and/or visual communications (per  $60
hour)
   Antenna systems (per hour)               $60
Siding
   First $2,000 in value                       $100
   Each $1,000 or part thereafter              $25
Signs
   Billboard signs (annual inspection)      $150
   Electrical inspection for illuminated sig$60
   Erecting new sign (per square foot)      $1.50
Street openings                                $675
Swimming pools
   2,500 gallons or less                    $75
   Over 2,500 gallons                       $125
Tree trimming                                  $75
Tuckpointing                                   (See: General Building and
                                               Construction)
Underground tanks                              (See: General Building and
                                               Construction)
   Removal (per tank)                       (See: General Building and
                                               Construction)
   Digging up and re-lining (per tank)      (See: General Building and
                                               Construction)
Ventilators/dust collectors (H.V.A.C.)         $100
industrial
Windows                                        (See: General Building and
                                               Construction)
Wrecking of building
   First $1,000                             $150
   Each $1,000 thereafter                   $50
   Commercial                               $500
Final inspection fee for each trade            $25
(electrical, plumbing, roofing and carpentry)
 
   (B)   Water transmission and sanitary sewer connection fees.
      (1)   All new users, commercial and/or residential, shall be required to
pay a permit fee to access the village’s water distribution system and the
village’s sanitary system. This includes all new construction.
      (2)   The permit fee shall be $1,000 which shall include the connection
to both systems, the location of the respective pipes and the supervision of
the connection process; if the respective point of connection crosses any
right-of-way of the village and/or third-party property line said connection
shall be in the amount of $1,500.
      (3)   Connection to the village’s water transmission system and sanitary
sewer system shall be permitted from April 1 thru November 15 of the calendar
year, access to said systems is otherwise prohibited unless prior written
permission is obtained from the village.
      (4)   Any violation of this section shall be subject to a fine of $750
for each and every day that the violation occurs.
(Prior Code, § 150.024) (Ord. 97-16, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 14-01, passed 2-11-
2014; Ord. 18-02, passed 1-23-2018; Ord. 18-26, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 21-16,
passed 7-27-2021; Ord. 23-08, passed 6-27-2023)
§ 150.030 EXEMPTIONS TO FEES.
   The village, county, state, United States, school buildings, churches and
parsonages shall be exempt from the payment of any fee for any building permit.
(Prior Code, § 150.025)
§ 150.031 LIMITATION.
   (A)   Construction of all buildings must commence within 60 days after
obtaining a permit and the building must be completed within six months from
the time construction commenced. In the event construction is not commenced
upon any building or structure for which a permit has been issued by the
Village Clerk within 60 days of the issuance of the permit, or if the
construction of the building or structure is suspended or abandoned at any time
after the work has commenced for a period of 90 days, the permit shall expire
by limitation and become null and void. After construction may be commenced, in
the event no work has yet been done or recommended but suspended or abandoned
for the period of 90 days, a new permit shall be obtained first upon payment of
half the amount required for a new permit.
   (B)   If construction has not been completed within the first six months,
the applicant may extend the permit for an additional 90-day period upon
payment of a permit fee in the amount of 50% of the original permit fee.
   (C)   If construction has not been completed within nine months of issuance
of the permit, the applicant must obtain a one-time permit at a flat rate of
$1,000 until a certificate of occupancy is issued.
(Prior Code, § 150.026) (Ord. 22-10, passed 4-12-2022) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.032 WAIVER.
   The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans or specifications
shall not be deemed or construed to be a waiver of any violation of any of the
provisions of this code. No permit presumed to give authority to violate or
cancel any of the provisions of this code shall be valid, except insofar as the
work or use which the permit authorizes is lawful. The issuance of a permit or
approval upon plans or specifications shall not prevent the Building Inspector
thereafter from requiring the correction of errors in the plans or
specifications or from preventing building operations from being carried out
thereunder when any errors constitute a violation of this code.
(Prior Code, § 150.027) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.033 METROPOLITAN SANITARY DISTRICT PERMITS.
   If any construction within the village requires a permit from the
Metropolitan Sanitary District, or its successor, the owner/developer/
contractor shall obtain the same. Any cost incurred by the village in obtaining
the permit shall be borne by the owner/developer/contractor.
(Prior Code, § 150.028) (Ord. 88-8, passed 2-27-1989)
§ 150.034 RESTORATION FEE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Whenever a contractor makes an opening in a public sidewalk, parkway, curb,
street or alley, the contractor shall backfill the opening according to this
code. The village shall install the appropriate finishing material (i.e.,
asphalt, concrete, topsoil, seed or sod). The contractor shall pay a fee in the
amount of $500 to the village before making any opening.
(Prior Code, § 150.029) (Ord. 88-8, passed 2-27-1989)
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 150.045 RESIDENCE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Building lines. No plans shall be approved unless the proposed
building will be set at least three feet from the side lot line and set on a
line 25 feet from the front lot line. No porch, stoop or steps leading into the
building shall be closer than three feet from the side lot line. No porch shall
be attached to or made an integral part of any building unless the porch is set
on a line 25 feet from the front lot line. No building shall be built on any
lot less than 30 feet frontage; provided, lots zoned for business purposes may
have 25 feet of frontage. No building for residential purposes may be built
upon the rear portion of a business lot. No variation of the foregoing
requirements shall be permitted, except on a concurrence of the Village Board
of Trustees.
   (B)   Floor area.
      (1)   No building shall be built for residential purposes on a lot which
has a width of 22 feet or less.
      (2)   A one-story building for residential purposes shall have a minimum
floor space of 600 square feet.
      (3)   A one and one-half-story residential building must have a minimum
floor space of 600 square feet on the first floor.
      (4)   A two-story residence building must have a minimum floor space of
600 square feet on the first floor.
      (5)   There shall be no construction approved on any lot that has less
than 30 feet of frontage and at least 3,200 square feet.
      (6)   There shall be no construction approved for any structure that
provides for more than one family unit, unless that lot has at least 45 feet of
frontage and at least 5,000 square feet; however, there shall be no
construction allowed for any structure which may house more than two family
units regardless of lot size.
      (7)   There shall be no construction approved for any residential
structure to house more than two family units in any area.
   (C)   Foundations. All frame buildings shall have a foundation not less than
eight inches thick and three and one-half feet below the present ground level
and, except where the lot has been filled, the foundation shall be constructed
on solid clay. The foundation shall have a footing of poured concrete not less
than 16 inches in width and eight inches in depth. All such foundations shall
be erected on footings not less than 18 inches wide. All footings shall be
inspected by the Building Inspector prior to the placement of the foundation
thereon. The fee to be charged for the inspection shall be $25.
   (D)   Sills. Wood plates on foundation walls used for joist bearing shall be
not less than two inches thick.
   (E)   Girders. Wood girders shall be not less than six inches by six inches.
Steel girders equivalent in strength may be used. All girders shall have
adequate bearing on posts with piers and wall or pilasters sufficient in
strength to carry the load of bearing joists and partitions.
   (F)   Joists. 
      (1)   Floor joists in one-story buildings shall not be less than two
inches by ten inches at 16-inch centers.
      (2)   Ceiling joists or second-floor sleeping room floor joist must not
be less than two inches by eight inches at 16-inch centers.
      (3)   First floor joists in two-story (two-flat) buildings shall be not
less than two inches by ten inches at 16-inch centers. Ceiling joists of the
first- or second-floor joists shall be not less than two inches by eight inches
at 16-inch centers. Ceiling joists of second floors shall not be less than two
inches by six inches at 16-inch centers.
   (G)   Studs. All studs must be not less than two inches by four inches at
16-inch centers.
   (H)   Top plates. All top plates shall be two inches by four inches, one on
top of each.
   (I)   Rafters. Rafters must be not less than two inches by six inches at 16-
inch centers.
   (J)   Ceilings on first floor must be at least eight feet. Second-floor
sleeping rooms must be not less than seven feet. Second floor or more for
living rooms must be not less than eight feet.
   (K)   Chimneys. All chimneys shall have a flue lining and rest on a footing
which shall be not less than three and one-half feet below ground level and
where the lot has been filled, the footing shall be 18 inches thick and shall
extend 12 inches beyond the proposed wall of the chimney. Chimneys shall be
made of approved masonry or reinforced concrete and shall extend at least three
feet above the highest point to which they come in contact with a roof of the
building and at least two feet higher than any ridge within ten feet of the
chimneys. Every chimney shall be properly capped with an incombustible,
weather-proofed material.
      (1)   Provisions relating to chimneys of residence buildings shall apply
to all garages, out-buildings and other structures within which a heating
appliance or heat-producing appliance is used or operated.
      (2)   Special low-temperature chimneys constructed of double shells of
approved corrosion-resistive metals or alloys with an intermediate air space or
of metal, cement-asbestos pipe or other approved corrosion-resistive materials
insulated with approved non-combustible materials may be used under the
following conditions.
         (a)   Chimneys shall be so designed and protected to prevent a
temperature rise under the conditions of their use of more than 160°F above
room temperature on the exterior surface. Chimneys shall be approved only when
the fire resistance, insulation, durability and other necessary qualities of
the assembly have been determined by tests satisfactory to the Building
Commissioner.
         (b)   Chimneys may be supported on combustible construction when
installed in one-story buildings and passing only through the roof construction
or through ceiling and roof construction separated by an unoccupied attic
space.
         (c)   Chimneys and flues approved for specific conditions of use in
the “List of Inspected Fire Protection Equipment and Materials”, Underwriters
Laboratories, 1948, shall be acceptable as meeting the requirements of this
division (K). The use of other special chimneys meeting the required test
standards shall not be precluded.
   (L)   Exterior walls. 
      (1)   New construction. The full front exterior wall must be constructed
of brick and the remaining walls must be made of fiber cement or fire-resistant
siding, i.e.: Hardie Board or LP SmartSide
      (2)   Replacement of existing siding. Must use fiber cement siding or
fire-resistant siding, i.e.: Hardie Board or LP SmartSide, with exception of
brick. Existing brick walls must be replaced with brick.
      (3)   Fire and storm damage. Any and all exterior walls of residence or
detached structure damaged beyond 50% must be replaced with fiber cement siding
or fire-resistant siding, i.e.: Hardie Board or LP SmartSide, with exception of
brick. Existing brick walls must be replaced with brick.
      (4)   Fiber cement and fire-resistant siding, new or replacements must
get color approval.
   (M)   Brick buildings. Any and all brick buildings, whether or not the
structure is all brick or a portion thereof brick, shall have a foundation of
not less than eight inches thick and four feet below ground level with a
footing of poured concrete not less than 16 inches in width and eight inches in
depth.
   (N)   Exits. There shall be two exits provided in every building designed
for residence purposes and if more than one story, must be provided with two
exits.
   (O)   Roofing.
      (1)   All roofing on buildings constructed for residential purposes shall
have a felt base of 15 or 30 pounds applied before the outer roofing is
installed.
      (2)   Any repairs made to a roof which exceed 20% of the square footage
of the roof will require replacement of the entire roof.
      (3)   Any repairs to a roof shall be made to match the existing shingles
of the roof. If such repair cannot be made to match the existing shingles, the
entire roof shall be replaced unless the requirement to repair the roof to
match the existing shingles is waived by the village.
      (4)   Any repairs made to a roof aged over ten years is prohibited and
requires a full roof replacement. Documented proof required.
   (P)   Flues required.
      (1)   Except electric heating appliances and gas appliances used for
cooking purposes, every heat appliance or heat-producing appliance shall be
connected with a flue.
      (2)   No flue shall have smoke pipe connections in more than one story of
a building, unless provision is made of incombustible material whenever their
use is discontinued temporarily, and completely closing them with masonry when
discontinued permanently.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (P) shall prohibit the joining of two or
more smoke pipes for a single flue connection, nor the venting of an automatic
gas appliance connection into the flue is made at a point not less than 12
inches above the connection from another appliance; provided, in every case the
smoke pipes and flues are of sufficient size to serve all the appliances thus
connected.
      (4)   Flues serving non-fuel fired incinerators in residence buildings,
institutional buildings, churches, schools and restaurants shall not have smoke
pipe connections with any other appliances.
   (Q)   Driveways. All paved driveways shall be constructed on a four-inch
base of compacted stone. Minimum thickness of concrete driveways shall be not
less than five inches reinforced with wire mesh. Concrete used in driveways
shall be not less than a five-bag mix. Asphalt driveways shall be a minimum
thickness of two inches over a four-inch base of compacted stones.
   (R)   Sidewalks. All sidewalks and patios shall be placed on a base of not
less than four inches of compacted stone. Concrete for sidewalks and patios
shall be not less than four inches in thickness and not less than a five-bag
mix.
   (S)   Screen doors and storm doors. All residence buildings shall have a
screen door or storm door on all exterior doorways.
(Prior Code, § 150.035) (Ord. 88-8, passed 2-27-1989; Ord. 95-15, passed 3-18-
1996; Ord. 96-6, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 05-03, passed 2-8-2005; Ord. 12-03,
passed 2-15-2012; Ord. 18-01, passed 1-23-2018; Ord. 19-10, passed 8-13-2019;
Ord. 21-23, passed 10-26-2021; Ord. 22-25, passed 11-8-2022; Ord. 23-01, passed
2-14-2023; Ord. 23-10, passed 6-27-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.046 GARAGES.
   (A)   Permit; fee. Any person desiring to erect a garage may do so after
obtaining a permit therefor from the Village Clerk upon payment of a fee of
$50.
   (B)   Building lines. All garages to be erected must be at least three feet
from the side lot line and three feet from the alley lot line.
   (C)   Maximum size. No person shall erect a garage more than 22 feet by 24
feet in area on any lot having less than 30 feet frontage.
   (D)   Construction. All garages shall be set upon a concrete slab not less
than five inches thick, reinforced with a rat wall not less than 18 inches deep
around the slab. No less than four inches of aggregate fill under the slab is
permitted.
   (E)   Top plates. Top plates must be two two inches by four inches, one on
top of each.
   (F)   Studs. All studs must be not less than two inches by four inches, set
at not more than 16-inch centers.
   (G)   Rafters. All rafters must be not less than two inches by four inches,
set at not more than 16-inch centers.
(Prior Code, § 150.036) (Ord. 75-5, passed 8-18-1975; Ord. 88-8, passed 2-27-
1989; Ord. 97-17, passed 3-2-1998) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.047 BUSINESS BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Permits and fees. Any person desiring to construct a business building
may do so after obtaining a building permit as provided in §§
150.020 through
150.026 and pay a fee therefor to the Village Clerk as provided in this
section. The fee charged for commercial, industrial or manufacturing building
permits shall be calculated at the rate of $0.15 per square foot of each floor
of the building (including basement) as measured by the exterior dimensions
thereof.
   (B)   Minimum area. No permit shall be granted for the erection of a
business building unless the building has at least 600 square feet of first
floor space and is at least 20 feet in width or frontage.
   (C)   Building lines. Business buildings may be built up to front and side
property lines, but not less than three feet from the alley line.
   (D)   Fire limits. The portion of the village in an area bounded by North
Avenue south to the alley, Mannheim Road east and west to the alleys and Lake
Street north to the alley shall is hereby designated the fire limits of the
village.
   (E)   Fire escapes and exits. All business buildings shall be provided with
at least two exits and all business buildings more than three stories shall, in
addition thereto, have approved fire escapes.
   (F)   Exterior walls. It shall be unlawful to construct or erect any
building or structure in the fire limits of the village unless the exterior
walls and roof of the building or structure are covered or constructed of non-
flammable material; provided, this shall not prohibit the construction of wood
porches, balconies or ornamental work no higher than the second story within
the fire limits.
   (G)   Repairs. It shall be unlawful to repair any existing frame building
within the fire limits after it has been damaged by any cause to more than 50%
of its value.
   (H)   Construction; foundations. All business buildings shall have a
foundation of not less than eight inches thick and four feet below ground
level, with a poured concrete footing not less than 16 inches in width and
eight inches in depth.
   (I)   Sills. Sills and wood plates on foundation walls which are used for
joist bearing shall be not less than two inches thick.
   (J)   Girders. Wood girders shall be not less than six inches by six inches.
Steel girders equivalent in strength may be used. In any case, all girders
shall have adequate bearing on posts with piers and walls or pilasters
sufficient to bear joists and partitions.
   (K)   Joists. Floor joists in one-story business buildings shall not be less
than two inches by 12 inches at 16-inch centers, well bridged. First- and
second-floor joists in two-story business buildings shall be not less than two
inches by 12 inches at 16-inch centers, well bridged. Ceiling joists in one-
story and second-story business buildings shall be not less than two inches by
eight inches at 16-inch centers.
   (L)   Studs. All studs must be not less than two inches by four inches at
16-inch centers.
   (M)   Top plates. All top plates shall be two two inches by four inches, one
at top of each.
   (N)   Rafters. Rafters must be not less than two inches by six inches at 16-
inch centers on pitched roofs. On flat roofs, rafters shall be not less than
two inches by eight inches at 16-inch centers.
   (O)   Ceilings. All ceilings in business buildings shall be not less than
eight feet.
   (P)   Chimneys. All chimneys on business buildings shall be constructed in
accordance with the requirements set forth in §
150.045(K).
   (Q)   Sanitary facilities.
      (1)   All premises used for restaurant, tavern, dance hall, skating rink,
theater or other purposes to which the public is admitted for the purposes of
eating, drinking, recreation or entertainment shall be equipped with at least
two wash rooms with toilet facilities and wash stands, one for male and one for
female use.
      (2)   Each such room shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and
shall be adequate in accommodations for the capacity of the establishment.
   (R)   Fronts. The fronts of all buildings built for commercial or industrial
use within the village, when the buildings are constructed on lots next
adjacent to or abut upon North Avenue, Lake Street or Mannheim (La Grange)
Road, shall be constructed of or faced with glass block, pressed brick, lannon
stone or other similar material subject to the approval of the Village Board of
Trustees.
   (S)   Roofing.
      (1)   Any repairs made to a roof which exceed 40% of the square footage
of the roof will require replacement of the entire roof.
      (2)   Any repairs to a roof shall be made to match the existing shingles
of the roof. If such repair cannot be made to match the existing shingles, the
entire roof shall be replaced unless the requirement to repair the roof to
match the existing shingles is waived by the village.
(Prior Code, § 150.037) (Ord. 88-8, passed 2-27-1989; Ord. 23-01, passed 2-14-
2023; Ord. 23-10, passed 6-27-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.048 SCREENING FOR WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   All multi-family, commercial and industrial buildings shall provide
screening for garbage cans, dumpsters and other receptacles for waste and
trash.
   (B)   The screening shall enclose all waste receptacles on three sides, so
as to effectively prevent them from being seen from the street(s) or front
property line.
   (C)   The screening shall be of a permanent nature and shall be built in a
workmanlike manner of wood or other material approved by the Village’s Chief
Building Inspector.
(Ord. 01-18, passed 10-23-2001)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.060 CHICAGO CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Illinois Plumbing Code, 2004 Edition with amendments, is adopted and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(Prior Code, § 150.045)
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of codes, see §
150.009
§ 150.061 INSPECTION FEES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The fee schedule for inspection of installation of plumbing fixtures, as set
forth in the Illinois Plumbing Code, 2004 Edition with amendments, is adopted
and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(Prior Code, § 150.046) (Ord. 88-8, passed 2-27-1989)
§ 150.062 PLASTIC PIPE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use plastic pipe of any kind for the
transmission of potable (drinking) water, either hot or cold.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to use plastic pipe of any type, except polyvinyl
chlorinate (PVC) schedule #40.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to use mastics for plastic pipe that are not
approved by the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF).
   (D)   It shall be lawful to use plastic pipes for outside sewer drains, not
less than six inches in diameter, as approved by the National Sanitation
Foundation.
(Prior Code, § 150.047) (Ord. 77-10, passed 8-12-1977; Ord. 88-2, passed 6-27-
1988) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.063 NOTICE OF WORKS TO BE HIDDEN.
   (A)   Any person installing electric wires, plumbing or other equipment in
any building in the village, which is to be hidden from view, shall notify the
Plumbing Inspector, in writing, of the intended installation, at least 48 hours
before the work is to be covered, and no work shall be covered until inspected,
as provided for in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Plumbing Inspector is authorized to take down or remove the
portions of the building or structure as shall be necessary for the inspection
of the electric wires, plumbing or other equipment, as herein required, and the
cost of the taking down and replacing the work so removed by the Plumbing
Inspector shall be borne by the person who has failed to give notice of the
installation, or by the person who has covered the work after the notice and
before inspection thereof, as herein provided, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 150.048) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.064 OVERHEAD PLUMBING AND FOOTING DRAINS.
   (A)   (1)   All new buildings with basements, rooms or occupancy areas below
ground level at the building site and served by the public or private sewer
system shall have overhead plumbing.
      (2)   No building or plumbing permit application will be accepted, nor
any building or plumbing permit issued, for construction of any structure
unless plans and specifications therefor provide for overhead plumbing.
   (B)   (1)   Footing drains shall be connected to sump pumps, and discharge
shall be made into storm sewers, combined sewers or drainage ditches.
      (2)   No footing drains or drainage tile shall be connected to the
sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 150.049) (Ord. 71-7, passed 10-25-1971) Penalty, see §
150.999
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.075 CHICAGO CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Chicago Electrical Code, 2012 Edition, is adopted and incorporated as
part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 150.055)
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of codes, see §
150.009
§ 150.076 INSPECTION FEES.
   The fees schedule for inspection of electrical work shall be according to
the Chicago Electrical Code, 2012 Edition,.
(Prior Code, § 150.056) (Ord. 88-8, passed 2-27-1989; Ord. 89-15, passed 1-8-
1990)
§ 150.077 NOTICE OF WORKS TO BE HIDDEN.
   (A)   Any person installing electric wires or equipment in any building in
the village which is to be hidden from view, shall notify the Building
Inspector, or his or her assistant, in writing, of the intended installation,
at least 48 hours before the work is to be covered, and no such work shall be
covered until inspected, as provided for in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Building Inspector, or assistant, is authorized to take down or
remove the portions of the building or structure as shall be necessary for the
inspection of the electric wires or equipment, as herein required, and the cost
of the taking down and replacing the work so removed by the Building Inspector
shall be borne by the person who has failed to give notice of the installation,
or by the person who has covered the work after the notice and before
inspection thereof, as herein provided, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 150.057) Penalty, see §
150.999
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.090 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition and which may cause or
aid in the spread of injury or disease of the health of the occupants of it or
neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause
is especially liable to catch fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any
part of the structure; and
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of its condition or lack of doors or windows is available to and
frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful occupants of
the structure.
(Prior Code, § 150.065)
§ 150.091 NUISANCE.
   Any dangerous building, as defined in §
150.090, found in the village is hereby declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 150.066) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.092 PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the village and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while
it is or remains in a dangerous condition.
(Prior Code, § 150.067) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.093 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector, Fire Chief or Health Officer is of
the opinion any building or structure in the village is a dangerous building,
he or she shall file a written statement to this effect with the Village Clerk.
The Clerk shall cause written notice to be served upon the owner thereof and
the occupants thereof, if any, by registered mail or personal service.
      (1)   The notice shall state the building has been declared to be in a
dangerous condition and that the condition must be removed or remedied at once
by repairing, altering or demolishing it.
      (2)   The notice may be in the following form:
         To                  (owner, occupant of the premises) of the premises
known and described as                :
         You are hereby notified that                       (describe building)
on the premises above described has been condemned as a nuisance and a
dangerous building after inspection by                     .
         The causes for this decision are:
         You must remedy this condition or demolish the building at once or the
village will proceed to do so.
   (B)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied with it within ten
days from the time it was served by personal service or registered mail or
posted on the premises, the Building Inspector may, upon orders of the Village
President and Board of Trustees, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish
the dangerous building.
   (C)   The notice may be posted in a prominent place on the premises if the
owner cannot be located in the village.
(Prior Code, § 150.068)
§ 150.094 DAMAGE BY FIRE; DECAY AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Any building or structure within the fire limits of the village, which
has been or may be damaged by fire, decay or other cause to the extent of 50%
of its value, shall be torn down and removed.
   (B)   Upon written notice by the Building Inspector, the Health Officer or
the Fire Chief, the Village President and Board of Trustees may appoint five
persons to determine whether or not the building or structure has been damaged
to the extent of 50% of its value. A copy of the notice filed by the village
officer, together with a notice of the appointment of a board of five persons
to determine the damage, shall be served upon the owner of the premises by
personal service or by registered mail to his or her last known address. The
notice may be substantially in the following form:
      To                             
      You are hereby notified that                                         has
determined the building owned by you at
                                                   , located within the fire
limits of the village, has been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise to the
extent of 50% of its value and that a board of three persons has been appointed
to verify this finding. The board shall hold its first meeting in the Village
Hall on the           day of             at the hour of             o’clock, at
which time it will determine whether this finding is correct.
      If this finding is verified by the board, you must tear down and remove
the building.
   (C)   If the five-member board determines the building has been damaged to
the extent of 50% of its value, it shall be the duty of the owner to tear down
or remove the building within 20 days after the finding of the board. It shall
be unlawful to occupy or permit the building to be occupied after the finding.
(Prior Code, § 150.069) (Ord. 97-14, passed 2-2-1998) Penalty, see §
150.999
FENCES
§ 150.105 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FENCE. A structure, including gates, which is a barrier and used as a
boundary or means of protection or confinement.
   OPEN FENCE. A fence which has, over its entirety, at least 80% of the
surface area in open space, as viewed at right angles from the fence; except
that, the required open space in louver-type fences may be viewed from any
angle.
   SEMI-OPEN FENCE. A fence which has over its entirety at least 50% of the
surface area in open space as viewed from an angle ranging from 45 degrees to
90 degrees from the fence or at least 50% of the surface area is open to permit
air circulation even if the vision through the fence is blocked more than 50%.
Fences constructed as board-on-board, picket or louver type fences and chain
link fences with Venetian blinks are considered SEMI-OPEN FENCES.
(Prior Code, § 150.080) (Ord. 90-11, passed 9-24-1990)
§ 150.106 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall, within the village, erect, construct or maintain any
fence or any section or portion thereof unless it conforms to the following
requirements and specifications.
      (1)   No new fence shall be constructed after 1-8-2002 on that portion of
any lot within 25 feet of the front property line of the lot. Existing fences
may be repaired or replaced.
      (2)   On that portion of any lot which is more than 25 feet from the
front property line, the maximum height of a fence shall be six feet.
      (3)   On that portion of the premises which constitutes the rear, abuts a
public alley and is not more than five feet from the property line abutting the
public alley, no fence may exceed a height of seven feet, but may be
constructed of any material, except barbed wire, as desired by the owner or
occupant of the premises.
      (4)   No person being the owner, lessee or agent of any real estate in
the village shall erect, maintain or permit to be erected or maintained on or
about the exterior building line of the real estate or upon any portion of the
sidewalk adjacent to the real estate any fence which is not in compliance with
the terms of divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) above.
   (B)   No fence shall be erected within three feet of any street line or the
line of any public grounds. Any such fence, when so constructed, is hereby
declared a public nuisance.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons or corporation to
construct within the limits of the village any fence or fences without the
proper permit. No fence composed wholly or in part of barbed wire shall be
erected. No fence or fences shall be erected within 25 feet of front of
property. All new fences must be installed with metal posts.
(Prior Code, § 150.081) (Ord. 90-11, passed 9-24-1990; Ord. 91-7, passed - -
1991; Ord. 02-01, passed 1-8-2002; Ord. 22-17, passed 8-23-2022) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.107 PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person wishing to construct a fence first shall obtain a permit
from the Village Clerk and pay the permit fee applicable.
   (B)   No person shall construct any fence or fences within the limits of the
village without obtaining a permit as required by ordinance of the village. All
such fence permit applications shall include a plat of survey of the subject
property.
(Prior Code, § 150.082) (Ord. 90-11, passed 9-24-1990; Ord. 91-7, passed - -
1991; Ord. 22-17, passed 8-23-2022) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.108 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any fence built within residential zoned limits shall be constructed
of lumber, chain link, vinyl or other materials which has to be approved by the
Building Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have double fence between two properties. All
fences must not exceed six feet in height in the residential area.
(Prior Code, § 150.083) (Ord. 91-7, passed - -1991; Ord. 22-17, passed 8-23-
2022) Penalty, see §
150.999
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.120 PERMIT.
   No person, firm or corporation shall move any building from one lot to
another on, through or over any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place
in the village without having obtained a permit therefor from the Board of
Trustees. Applications for those permits shall be made in writing to the
Village Clerk and shall state thereon the proposed route and the number of days
it is intended the building should occupy any portion of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 150.090) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.121 FEE.
   Upon the approval of the intended route by the Board of Trustees, a fee of
$5, plus $10, for each day or portion thereof that is intended that the
building shall occupy any such portion of any public place, shall be paid to
the Village Clerk and a permit issued, an additional payment of $10 for each
day or portion thereof over and above the time stated on the permit during
which any building shall occupy any public place shall be paid.
(Prior Code, § 150.091) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.122 BOND.
   Every person, firm or corporation applying for a permit to move a building
shall submit with his or her application at least two sureties to be approved
by the Board of Trustees, conditioned on compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter and agreeing to pay all claims and hold harmless the village from
claims which may be made against it by reason of the occupation of any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place by the building or structure moved.
(Prior Code, § 150.092) Penalty, see §
150.999
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
§ 150.135 REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in all new assembly,
educational, industrial, mercantile, storage and office dwellings in excess of
5,000 square feet, except as provided for in divisions (C) and (D) below. Any
existing building which makes additions, either through new construction or
acquiring adjacent property to increase its total square footage to make a
total area in excess of 10,000 square feet is to be totally protected by a
sprinkler system.
   (B)   Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in all newly
constructed multi-family dwellings. Any existing multi-family dwelling,
building or structure which is destroyed, damaged or decayed to the extent that
its value is reduced by 50% shall be required to install an automatic sprinkler
system.
   (C)   An office occupancy shall not require a complete automatic sprinkler
system, provided an adequate automatic fire detection system is installed.
However, all basement areas, vertical chutes, corridors, below-grade areas and
parking garages of office occupancies shall require automatic sprinkler
systems.
   (D)   A dwelling, when of ordinary or wood construction not exceeding two
stories in height, does not require automatic sprinkler systems, provided it is
not a multi-family unit.
   (E)   Multi-family dwellings, or dwellings for four or more families, shall
provide complete exit coverage to occupants, including the apartment side of
the exit door leading to corridors, vertical chutes and stairwells.
   (F)   In addition to those buildings enumerated in divisions (A) through (E)
above which require automatic sprinkler systems, sprinkler systems shall be
required in all new construction or additional construction which increases the
total square footage to make a total area in excess of 5,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 150.105) (Ord. 74-5, passed 8-26-1974; Ord. 74-5A, passed 10-14-
1974; Ord. 75-15, passed 12-15-1975; Ord. 20-17, passed 10-13-2020) Penalty,
see §
150.999
§ 150.136 INSTALLATION.
   Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed so as to provide reasonable
safety to persons and property. Evidence the automatic sprinkler systems have
been installed in accordance with the applicable standard specified for in this
section shall be evidence the automatic sprinkler systems provide reasonable
safety to persons and property.
(Prior Code, § 150.106) (Ord. 74-5A, passed 10-14-1974) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.137 FIRE DOORS.
   (A)   Fire doors shall be installed in all new and existing construction as
described below.
      (1)   Multi-family dwellings. Fire doors of the self-closing type will be
installed in corridors or hallways so as to prevent the horizontal or vertical
spread of fire or smoke to stairwells, causing a life hazard to the people on
upper floors when stairwells are used as an exit.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial property. Automatic fire doors will be
installed in all new commercial or industrial property when a fire wall in that
building is necessary and/or the same business is occupying both sections. A
business acquiring adjacent property and breaching the walls connecting the two
buildings will have automatic fire doors as approved by the Fire Prevention
Bureau.
   (B)   The standards set forth by NFP Fire Code, 2012 Edition, will be
followed.
(Prior Code, § 150.107) (Ord. 74-5A, passed 10-14-1974) Penalty, see §
150.999
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of Codes, see §
150.009
§ 150.138 FIRE WALLS; FIRESTOPS.
   (A)   Fire walls will be constructed between each business, extending a
minimum of 18 inches above the roof, as approved by the Fire Prevention Bureau.
   (B)   All buildings shall contain firestops at all intersections of the
interior and exterior walls, floors, ceilings and roofs in such a manner as to
effectively cut off communication of fire by means of draft. Firestops shall
extend the full width of the studding and shall be sufficiently rigid to act in
the manner of a lateral bracing for the individual stud. All fire-stopping
required in this division (B) shall be not less than two inches in width less
than the enclosed space within the partition.
(Prior Code, § 150.108) (Ord. 74-5A, passed 10-14-1974) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.139 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; AUTOMATIC FIRE ALARMS.
   (A)   Automatic sprinkler systems.
      (1)   Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in all new assembly,
educational, industrial, mercantile, storage, and office dwellings in excess of
5,000 square feet, except as provided for in divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of
this section. Any existing building which makes additions, either through new
construction or acquiring adjacent property to increase its total square
footage to make a total area in excess of 10,000 square feet are to be totally
protected by a sprinkler system.
      (2)   Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in all newly
constructed multi-family dwellings. Any existing multi-family dwelling,
building or structure which is destroyed, damaged or decayed to the extent that
its value is reduced by 50% shall be required to install an automatic sprinkler
system.
      (3)   An office occupancy shall not require a complete automatic
sprinkler system, provided an adequate automatic fire detection system is
installed. However, all basement areas, vertical chutes, corridors, below-grade
areas and parking garages of office occupancies shall require automatic
sprinkler systems.
      (4)   A dwelling, when of ordinary or wood construction not exceeding two
stories in height, does not require automatic sprinkler systems, provided it is
not a multi-family unit.
      (5)   Multi-family dwellings, or dwellings for four or more families,
shall provide complete exit coverage to occupants, including the apartment side
of the exit door leading to corridors, vertical chutes and stairwells.
      (6)   In addition to those buildings enumerated in divisions (A)(1)
through (A)(4) of this section which require automatic sprinkler systems,
sprinkler systems shall be required in all new construction or additional
construction which increases the total square footage to make a total area in
excess of 5,000 square feet.
      (7)   Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in all newly
constructed multi-family dwellings. Any existing multi-family dwelling,
building or structure which is destroyed, damaged or decayed to the extent that
its value is reduced by 50% shall be required to install an automatic sprinkler
system and fire alarm.
   (B)   Automatic fire alarms.
      (1)   Definitions.
         AUTOMATIC, as applied to fire protection devices, shall mean a device
or system providing an emergency function without the necessity for human
intervention and activated as a result of a predetermined temperature rise,
rate of temperature rise or combustion products.
         FIRE ALARM SYSTEM. A system or portion of a combination system
consisting of components and circuits arranged to monitor and annunciate the
status of fire alarm or supervisory signal-initiating devices and to initiate
the appropriate response to those signals.
      (2)   Required. An approved automatic fire alarm system installed shall
be provided in all new buildings and structures and provide occupant
notification in accordance with the International Fire Code subject to the
exceptions provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (3)   Automatic fire alarm system shall be installed in all newly
constructed buildings and structures and multi-dwellings and provide occupant
notification in accordance with the International Fire Code, as amended.
      (4)   Automatic fire alarm system shall be installed should there be a
change of ownership including buying and selling of property in accordance with
the International Fire Code, as amended.
      (5)   Exceptions. Single family dwellings.
(Ord. 20-17, passed 10-13-2020; Ord. 22-05, passed 3-8-2022)
HEATING, VENTILATING AND AIR CONDITIONING
§ 150.150 CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following codes, and any amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated as if set out at length herein.
      (1)   The American Insurance Association Heat-Producing Appliances Code,
1967 Edition;
      (2)   Gas Appliances and Gas Piping Code No. 54, 1964 Edition;
      (3)   Oil Burning Equipment Code No. 31, 1968 Edition;
      (4)   Storage, Handling, and Use of Flammable Liquids Code No. 30, 1961
Edition;
      (5)   City of Chicago Ventilation Code, 1968 Edition; and
      (6)   Municipal Code of Chicago:
         (a)   Steam Boilers and Unfired Pressure Vessels, Ch. 84; and
         (b)   Mechanical Refrigeration, Ch. 85.
   (B)   In the event that any of the provisions of the codes listed in
division (A) above are in conflict with any ordinance of the village, the
village ordinances shall supersede if they are more stringent.
   (C)   In addition to the three copies of the codes which are on file in the
office of the Village Clerk for use and examination by the public, at least one
copy of the codes shall be kept on file in the office of the Building Inspector
for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 150.120)
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of Codes, see §
150.009
§ 150.151 LICENSING REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of heating,
ventilating or air conditioning contractor, without being licensed as such.
(Prior Code, § 150.121) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.152 PERMITS.
   No heating, ventilating or air conditioning equipment shall be installed or
altered, except upon a permit first issued by the Building Department. The
Building Department shall issue permits for the installation and alteration of
equipment in all cases where application for the permits shall be made in
accordance with the rules and regulations applicable thereto; provided,
however, that, no permit shall be issued for installing or altering, by
contract, the equipment, unless the person applying for the permit is licensed
and bonded as a heating, ventilating or air conditioning contractor as required
by this subchapter, and plans and specifications have been approved by the
Building Department.
(Prior Code, § 150.122) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.153 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Building Department shall inspect all heating, ventilating or air
conditioning equipment installed or altered, and shall require that it conform
to the standards and specifications applicable thereto and adopted as,
aforesaid, and upon completion of the installation or alteration in compliance
with the standards and specifications, shall immediately issue a certificate of
inspection, covering the installation or alteration.
   (B)   The Building Department is hereby empowered to reinspect any heating,
ventilating or air conditioning equipment, and when the equipment is found to
be unsafe to life or property shall notify the person owning, using or
operating same to place the same in a safe and secure condition and in
compliance with the standards and specifications described herein within the
time as the Building Department shall consider just and reasonable.
   (C)   Upon refusal or willful failure to comply with the requirements of the
notifications, in addition to the penalties otherwise provided herein, the
Building Department may order and compel the cutting off and stopping of the
heating, ventilating and air conditioning equipment until the heating,
ventilating or air conditioning equipment has been placed in a safe and secure
condition and in compliance with the standards and specifications referred to
herein.
   (D)   No inspection fee shall be charged for the reinspection, but in case
it becomes necessary to replace the heating, ventilating or air conditioning
equipment on account of defects disclosed by the reinspection, a permit
therefor shall be obtained and an inspection fee paid, as provided for in §
150.158.
(Prior Code, § 150.123)
§ 150.154 RECORDS.
   The Building Department shall keep complete records of all permits issued
and inspections made and other official work performed under the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.124)
§ 150.155 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   Whenever any heating, ventilating or air conditioning equipment has
been installed or altered, none of the equipment shall be turned on prior to
the inspection of the equipment by the Building Department and the issuance of
a certificate of inspection covering the installation or alteration.
   (B)   However, the Building Department may issue a temporary certificate for
the use of the equipment during the course of construction or alteration of
buildings. The temporary certificate shall expire when the construction or
alteration of the building is complete.
(Prior Code, § 150.125) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.156 PROCEDURE UPON FINDING DEFECTS.
   (A)   In case the Building Inspector, or his or her assistants, find a
defect in any heating, ventilating or air conditioning equipment, subject to
inspection in the village, the Inspector shall report the defect, in writing,
to the person who owns the equipment or to the person in possession of the
premises where the equipment is located, using blanks furnished by the village
for that purpose and giving a description of the character of the defect.
   (B)   If the defect is of a dangerous character, necessitating immediate
repair, the Building Inspector shall forthwith condemn the apparatus or
equipment for further use, or until it is removed, repaired or renewed.
   (C)   If the defect is of a character such that the apparatus or equipment
may be safely operated for a period of some days pending repairs, the Building
Inspector shall so report, and name the days during which the equipment may be
operated.
   (D)   A duplicate of all reports shall be promptly filed in the office of
the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 150.126)
§ 150.157 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Payment of fees. No permit, as required by this subchapter, shall be
issued until the fee prescribed in this section shall have been paid, nor shall
an amendment to any permit be approved until the additional fee, if any, shall
have been paid.
   (B)   Heating systems.
 
Chimney or boiler                                 $25
Conversion burner or repairs to furnace or boiler $15
Entire new system                                 $25
New furnace or boiler only                        $15
 
   (C)   Mechanical refrigeration.
      (1)   Classification of systems.
         (a)   Class A system is one containing 1,000 pounds or more of
refrigerant.
         (b)   Class B system is one containing more than 100 pounds, but less
than 1,000 pounds of refrigerant.
         (c)   Class C system is one containing more than 20 pounds, but not
more than 100 pounds of refrigerant.
         (d)   Class D system is one containing more than six pounds, but not
more than 20 pounds of refrigerant.
         (e)   Class E system is one containing six pounds or less of
refrigerant.
      (2)   Residential dwelling and remote system.
 
Class B $20 for each compressor or generator unit, plus $0.25 for each
        evaporator
Class C $15 for each compressor or generator unit, plus $0.25 for each
        evaporator
Class D $10 for each compressor or generator unit, plus $0.25 for each
        evaporator
 
      (3)   Commercial and industrial systems.
 
Class A $50 for each compressor or generator unit
Class B $25 for each compressor or generator unit
Class C $15 for each compressor or generator unit
Class D $10 for each compressor or generator unit
Class E $10 for each compressor or generator unit with power supplied by a
        motor larger than 1/3 horsepower
The permit fees for a single unit system containing 6 pounds or less of
refrigerant with power supplied by a motor not exceeding 1/3 horsepower shall
be $10, and the permit fee for a remote system serving not more than 1
evaporator containing less than 6 pounds of refrigerant with power supplied by
a motor not exceeding 1/3 horsepower shall be $10
 
   (D)   Ventilating systems; mechanical supply or exhaust. Capacity shall be
the sum of supply and exhaust.
 
Capacity of 3,000 cubic feet of air per minute         $10
For each additional 1,000 cubic feet per minute        $5
Increase in capacity, each 1,000 cubic feet per minute $5
 
   (E)   Boilers and unfired pressure vessels.
For each low pressure boiler                                                $10
For each miniature boiler                                                   $8
For each high pressure boiler containing not more than 250 square feet of   $10
heating surface
For each high pressure boiler containing more than 250, and not more than   $14
1,500, square feet of heating surface
For each high pressure boiler containing more than 1,500, and not more than $16
5,000, square feet of heating surface
For each high pressure boiler containing more than 5,000 square feet of     $18
heating surface
For each unfired pressure vessel designed for 15 pounds pressure or less    $10
For each unfired pressure vessel designed for more than 15 pounds pressure  $12
 
(Prior Code, § 150.127) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.158 INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Residential and remote refrigerating systems. The fee for annual
inspection, if required, for residential dwellings and remote refrigerating
systems shall be paid to the Village Collector as follows (see § 150.157(C) for
classification of systems):
 
Class B $11 for each compressor or generator unit
Class C $6 for each compressor or generator unit
Class D $5 for each compressor or generator unit
 
   (B)   Commercial and industrial refrigerating systems. The fee for annual
inspection for commercial and industrial refrigerating system shall be as
follows (see division (C) below for determination of capacity):
 
Compressor or generator unit of 5 tons or less capacity                  $10
Compressor or generator unit over 5 tons and not over 35 tons capacity   $15
Compressor or generator unit over 35 tons and not over 100 tons capacity $20
Compressor or generator unit over 100 tons capacity                      $25
 
   (C)   Determination of capacity. Compressor capacity shall be based on 5°
evaporator temperature and 86° condenser temperature, and compressor
displacements shall conform to the following table for refrigerant named:
      (1)   Ammonia (NH3): 6,912 cubic inch per minute per ton;
      (2)   Carbon dioxide (CO2): 1,625 cubic inch per minute per ton;
      (3)   Dichlorodifluoromethane (CCL2F2): 12,528 cubic inch per minute per
ton;
      (4)   Methyl chloride (CH3CL): 13,824 cubic inch per minute per ton; and
      (5)   Sulphur dioxide (SO2): 20,736 cubic inch per minute per ton.
   (D)   Boilers and unfired pressure vessels.
      (1)   Annual inspection fees, if necessary, for boilers and unfired
pressure vessels shall be paid to the Village Collector as follows:
Each low pressure boiler                                                    $5
Each miniature boiler                                                       $3
Each high pressure boiler containing not more than 250 square feet of       $7
heating surface
Each high pressure boiler containing more than 250 square feet, and not     $8
more than 1,500 square feet, of heating surface
Each high pressure boiler containing more than 1,500 square feet, and not   $9
more than 5,000 square feet, of heating surface
Each high pressure boiler containing more than 5,000 square feet of heating $10
surface
Each unfired pressure vessel less than 12 inches in diameter                $16
Each unfired pressure vessel 12 inches or more in diameter and less than 18 $18
inches in diameter
Each unfired pressure vessel 18 inches or more in diameter and less than 36 $20
inches in diameter
Each unfired pressure vessel 36 inches or more in diameter                  $12
 
      (2)   The fee for inspection of boilers and other apparatus above
provided for shall be double the respective amounts above specified when the
inspection is made on a Sunday or a legal holiday at the request of the person
owning or operating the boiler or other apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 150.128)
§ 150.159 NOTICE OF WORKS TO BE HIDDEN.
   Any person installing heating, ventilating or air conditioning equipment in
any building in the village which is to be hidden from view, shall notify the
Building Inspector, or his or her assistant, in writing, of the intended
installation, at least 48 hours before the work is to be covered, and no such
work shall be covered until inspected, as provided for in this subchapter. The
Building Inspector, or assistant, is authorized to take down or remove the
portions of the building or structure as shall be necessary for the inspection
of the equipment, as herein required, and the cost of the taking down and
replacing the work so removed by the Building Inspector shall be borne by the
person who has failed to give notice of the installation, or by the person who
has covered the work after the notice and before inspection thereof, as herein
provided, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 150.129) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.160 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS FOR HEAT-PRODUCING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Heating and water heating equipment shall not be installed under
combustible stairways or in sleeping rooms, bathrooms or toilet rooms.
   (B)   Solid fuel burning equipment shall not be installed above the first
story.
   (C)   Smoke pipes, where hazardous to human occupancy, shall be insulated
from furnace to chimney with a double-lined flue pipe.
   (D)   Bathroom wall insert heaters and switches shall be located as far as
practicable from plumbing fixtures and a minimum of 30 inches from tub or
shower.
   (E)   Clothes dryers:
      (1)   Shall not be installed in bathrooms or bedrooms;
      (2)   Shall be exhausted to the outside air and all exhaust ducts shall
be constructed of metal or other non-combustible material; and/or
      (3)   Shall be equipped with approved automatic pilots (in other than
single-family homes).
(Prior Code, § 150.130) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.161 NOISE ABATEMENT; AIR CONDITIONING.
   All air conditioning equipment, including remote compressors, fan coil units
or water-cooling towers shall be so housed or installed so as to prevent
transmission of objectionable noise or vibration to adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, § 150.131) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.162 HEATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum heating requirements for single-family dwellings. 
      (1)   Heating equipment for single-family dwelling unit buildings shall
be designed to maintain an inside temperature of 72°F at a distance of three
feet and more from exterior walls, and at a level of five feet above the floor
when the outside temperature is 10° below 0°F in all rooms of the residential
structure.
      (2)   The systems shall be designed, installed, and balanced or adjusted
to provide distribution of heat to all rooms in proportion to the calculated
heat loss of the spaces heated. The temperature difference between any two
habitable rooms shall not exceed 5°F with temperatures taken in the center of
the room 30 inches above the floor. Habitable rooms shall include kitchens,
bathrooms, toilet rooms and recreation rooms when located below ground level.
   (B)   Required temperature in other than single-family dwelling units.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every person owning or controlling any two-
family, multiple-family dwelling, hotel or lodging, rooming or boarding house,
in which the heat is furnished from a heating plant used in common for the
purpose of heating the various rooms and apartments therein and the heating
plant is under the control or supervision of the owner or person in control of
the building to furnish heat to the rooms and apartments from October 1 of each
year to May 1 of the succeeding year so that the occupants thereof may secure,
without the undue restriction of ventilation as to interfere with proper
sanitary conditions, a minimum temperature of 68°F from 10:30 p.m. to 6:30
a.m., and 72°F at 8:30 a.m. and thereafter until 10:30 p.m., averaged
throughout the apartment. (See division (E) below for method of determining
temperature.)
      (2)   Notices of complaint concerning lack of heat in the room or
apartment shall first be given to the person, firm or corporation by registered
mail before a violation of this section shall be deemed to exist.
   (C)   Required temperature in factories; moisture content.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every person owning or controlling the
heating plant which furnishes heat to any factory or workshop to maintain a
temperature within the factory or workshop of not less than 68°F without the
undue restriction of ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary
conditions therein. (See division (E) below for method of determining
temperature.)
      (2)   This requirement shall not apply to any factory or workshop where
the business conducted therein is of a nature that a higher or lower
temperature than 68°F is necessary or expedient for the work, trade, occupation
or manufacturing processed of the business so conducted therein.
      (3)   In all cases where a higher or lower temperature is necessary or
expedient, the moisture content of the air shall be increased, where the
temperature is maintained below 68°F, in the proper amount to maintain a wet
bulb temperature between 54°F and 58°F, and in the case of special
manufacturing processes which is necessary or expedient to maintain a wet bulb
temperature below or above the extremes herein set forth, it shall be the duty
of the person owning or controlling the premises to use reasonable precautions
and safeguards as will meet the requirements of the special manufacturing
processes without endangering the health of the occupants of the factory or
workshops.
   (D)   Required temperatures in offices, stores and places of employment. It
shall be the duty of any person, firm or corporation owning or controlling the
heating plant which furnishes heat to any office, store or other place of
employment, to maintain a temperature within the office, store or place of
employment of not less than 68°F without the undue restriction of ventilation
as to interfere with proper sanitary conditions therein, between the hours of
8:30 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., from October 1 of each year to June 1 of the
succeeding year, Sundays and full legal holidays excepted. (See division (E)
below for method of determining temperature.)
   (E)   Method of determining temperature.
      (1)   Temperature readings shall be made only by an inspector under the
direction of the County Department of Health by means of a standard Fahrenheit
thermometer approved by the Department of Health in not less than two separate
rooms in the apartment or, if the apartment consists of only one room, then in
two opposite parts of the room as near the extremes as practicable.
      (2)   Failure to furnish the heat required under the terms of this
subchapter shall not constitute an offense where it is due to the breakdown of
the heating plant, if diligence is used to have the plant repaired, unless the
breakdown has been caused by the violation of an ordinance relating to the
operation of heating plants, nor where it is due to strikes, to general
shortage of fuel or any act of the tenant who makes the complaint, or to any
cause beyond the owner’s control, or unless written notice of the failure has
been given to the owner or agent of the building by registered mail, and the
temperature readings herein provided for shall not be made until after the
delivery of written notice.
(Prior Code, § 150.132) Penalty, see §
150.999
INSPECTION OF MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS
§ 150.175 GENERALLY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FAMILY. Consists of one or more persons each related to the other by
blood, marriage or adoption (including foster children), together with the
relatives of the respective spouses who are living with the FAMILY in a single
residence and maintaining a common household. A FAMILY so related includes any
domestic servants and not more than one gratuitous guest residing with the
FAMILY. A FAMILY may also be composed of not to exceed three persons not so
related; provided that, the unrelated persons live in a single residence and
maintain a common household and a single housekeeping unit. A FAMILY, so
constituted, shall not be permitted to include a gratuitous guest; nor shall a
relative by blood, marriage or adoption of any one of the three unrelated
persons be permitted to reside as part of a FAMILY, so constituted. The three
unrelated persons may not include a domestic servant as an additional person.
      MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. (Hereinafter, DWELLING.) Any dwelling that has
been constructed or modified so that it may house more than one family.
   (B)   Every dwelling, along with all accessory structures located upon the
same lot or a contiguous lot, shall be inspected for compliance with this
subchapter. Inspections of dwellings shall consist of both exterior and
interior inspections. Exterior inspections shall include the dwelling and any
accessory structures. Interior inspections, however, shall be limited to health
and life-threatening violations.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the following:
units of local government and other governmental agencies not subject to the
Housing Code, Building Code or Zoning Ordinance of the village and owners who
occupy single-family residencies.
   (D)   When a non-residential business or activity, or a state or federally
licensed and inspected use, occupies a portion of a building or premises which
would otherwise be subject to this section, the provisions of this subchapter
shall be applicable to the residential and common or public areas of the
building or premises.
   (E)   To the extent that anything in this subchapter conflicts with or is
inconsistent with any other provision of the village code, including, but not
limited to, this chapter, the requirements of this subchapter shall control.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 5-10-2005)
§ 150.176 FREQUENCY OF INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All dwellings subject to this subchapter shall be inspected at
least once every three years. In addition, all dwellings subject to this
subchapter shall be inspected prior to any transfer of ownership and shall be
subject thereafter to the triennial inspection. In cases where an authorized
agent other than the owner has been designated to receive notices of code
violations, written notice of the date of the inspection shall be given to the
agent and dwelling occupant at least 15 days prior to the date of the
inspection. Otherwise, written notice of the date of the inspection shall be
given to the owner of the property and the dwelling unit occupant 15 days prior
to the date of its inspection. The notice shall advise the owner or authorized
agent and occupant of the inspection, his or her right to refuse inspection of
the dwelling unit, and the village’s right to seek issuance of an
administrative search warrant in the event of any refusal. No inspection of an
occupied dwelling unit shall occur without the consent of the tenant/occupant
unless an administrative search warrant is obtained. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner or the designated agent or the occupant to be
present at the dwelling unit on the date and time of inspection to provide
access for inspection.
      (2)   Property owners wishing to deny access to their property and
wishing to have the village obtain an administrative search warrant shall
provide the following to the village in writing for each property:
         (a)   Owner name and address (agent if applicable); and
         (b)   Property address and tax identification number.
      (3)   The village will recognize and record these denials for access when
the above information is provided for each property. An owner’s denial of
access shall not preclude a tenant from granting access.
      (4)   The village will make every reasonable effort to recognize any
other Constitutionally recognized method of refusing access to a building, but
will recognize denials for access when the above information is provided for
each property.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the inspection of any premises
subject to this subchapter more frequently than set forth in division (A)
above; provided, however, that, any inspection more frequent than set forth in
division (A) above shall be based upon a citizen complaint or other indicia
that is more probable than not that a housing violation exists.
   (C)   In addition to the inspection pursuant to division (B) above, owners,
with the consent of tenants/occupants, may request a full Minimum Housing Code
inspection for their rental properties. If, after inspection, the property is
found to be in compliance with the full Minimum Housing Code, photographs shall
be taken by the inspector to verify that the property meets the Minimum Housing
Code. These pictures and the testimony of the Inspector may be utilized by the
landlord against any tenant who destroys or damages the landlord’s rental
property.
   (D)   Prior to renting any dwelling unit to a new tenant, the village shall
inspect the premises to ensure that the dwelling unit is in full compliance
with the applicable village codes. No inspection shall be required hereunder
for lease renewals.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 5-10-2005)
§ 150.177 INSPECTION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   No person shall allow the occupancy of a dwelling subject to this subchapter
without having a valid, current certificate of inspection for that dwelling.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 5-10-2005) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.178 INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If, upon completion of the triennial inspection, the premises are
found to be in compliance with all applicable village codes or ordinances and
other applicable laws and the inspection fees have been paid to the village,
the village shall issue a certificate of inspection for the dwelling.
   (B)   If, upon completion of the inspection, the dwelling is found to have
one or more health or life-threatening violations, or Exterior Housing Code or
environmental violations, or other village ordinance violation, the village
shall provide written notice of the violations to the designated agent or to
the owner where the owner and designated agent are the same person. When the
violations have been corrected, the village shall issue a certificate of
inspection for the premises. The village shall not issue the certificate of
inspection and may take any action necessary to enforce compliance with
applicable village codes and ordinances until the violations are corrected.
During the period between the initial inspection and the issuance of the
certificate of inspection, the owner may continue to rent the premises unless
the violations are so serious as to threaten the health or safety of the
occupants.
   (C)   If violations exist, the village shall commence administrative hearing
proceedings not less than 30, and no more than 90, days after the violation is
reported by the Code Enforcement Inspector or Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 5-10-2005)
§ 150.179 CERTIFICATE EXPIRATION.
   (A)   The certificate of inspection issued pursuant to this subchapter shall
expire three years from the date of the triennial inspection; provided,
however, that, if a reinspection of the premises has not been completed prior
to the expiration of the certificate of inspection, the dwelling covered by the
certificate may continue to be rented and occupied until the reinspection is
completed and a new certificate of inspection is either issued or denied.
   (B)   The certificate of inspection shall have the expiration date
prominently displayed on its face.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 5-10-2005)
§ 150.180 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fee schedule is imposed in connection with the inspection and
reinspections of a dwelling.
   (A)   Initial inspection fee.
1 and 2 units        $100
3 and 4 units        $150
5 and 6 units        $220
7 and 8 units        $300
9 and 10 units       $380
11 and 12 units      $460
13 and 14 units      $540
15 and 16 units      $620
17 and 18 units      $700
19 and 20 units      $780
21 through 25 units  $920
26 through 30 units  $1,020
31 through 40 units  $1,420
41 through 50 units  $1,820
51 through 100 units $3,020
101+ units           $4,000
(Units per tax identification number)
 
   (B)   Reinspection fee.
      (1)   When a reinspection is required, an additional $50 reinspection fee
will be charged for each unit that is reinspected. This fee will apply for all
additional reinspections.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (B), DWELLING UNIT shall mean a
single unit providing complete independent living facilities for one or more
persons, including permanent provision for living, sleeping, eating, cooking
and sanitation.
      (3)   The owner shall be responsible for payment of the inspection fee(s)
hereunder. OWNER shall mean the legal title holder or holder of the realty as
shown by the records of the County Recorder’s office; except, if legal title is
held by a state land trust, OWNER shall mean the beneficial owner or owners of
the trust.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 5-10-2005)
§ 150.181 CERTIFICATE AVAILABILITY.
   Upon request of an existing or prospective tenant, the owner or designated
agent shall produce the certificate of inspection.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 5-10-2005)
§ 150.182 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATION.
   If the Building Commissioner, or his or her designee, determines that any
applicable village code or ordinance has been violated after notice of the
violation(s) has been given and the time allowed to correct any violation has
expired, he or she may suspend or revoke the certificate of inspection.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 5-10-2005)
§ 150.183 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on 5-10-2005.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 5-10-2005)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting or refusing to comply with or who resists enforcement of any of the
provisions of §
150.006 shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $200 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of the code
described in §
150.007 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $500,
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any party violating the provisions of §
150.009 or permitting occupancy of any single-residence as a multiple-family
dwelling unit shall be subject to a fine of $100 per day for each day the
violation exists.
(Prior Code, § 150.009)
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
150.060 and
150.064 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10, nor more than $200,
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
150.090 through
150.094 or §§
150.120 through
150.122 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $200,
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
150.106(A) or
150.107(A) shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $100, nor more than
$500, for each day a violation occurs or continues.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
150.106(B) and (C),
150.107(B) or
150.108 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500,
for each and every offense.
   (H)   Any person owning, controlling or using any heating, ventilating or
air conditioning equipment, subject to inspection under the provisions of §§
150.150 through
150.162, for a longer period, pending repairs, then specified in the Building
Inspector’s report, or who shall use or attempt to use the apparatus or
equipment after it has been condemned by the Building Inspector, or his or her
assistant, for further use, and before the same has been removed, fully
repaired or renewed and an order for a certificate of inspection obtained
thereon, in the manner prescribed above, or who shall refuse to Building
Inspector, or his or her assistant, admittance to the premises where the
apparatus or equipment is located for the purpose of making the inspection or
test, or shall needlessly hinder the inspection or test, shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than
$50, nor more than $500, for each offense. Each day any violation of any
provision of theses codes shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (I)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy, lease or cause to
be leased any dwelling without the certificate of inspection required under §
150.177. Each day that any dwelling does not have the certificate of inspection
required hereunder shall constitute a separate and distinct violation.
      (2)   Any person committing a violation under §
150.177 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $100, nor more
than $500, for each day that the violation is proven to exist.
      (3)   Nothing in §§
150.175 through
150.183 shall prevent the village from taking action under any applicable
village code or ordinance for any violation thereof or limit the right of
authority of the village to seek injunctive relief or other appropriate legal
remedy for any violation of the code or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 150.999) (Ord. 69-10, passed 4-27-1970; Ord. 87-3, passed 6-22-
1987; Ord. 90-11, passed 9-24-1990; Ord. 91-7, passed - -1991; Ord. 92-1,
passed 5-4-1992; Ord. 05-08, passed 5-10-2005; Ord. 22-17, passed 8-23-2022)
CHAPTER 151: FAIR HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Declaration of policy
   
151.02   Construction
   
151.03   Severability
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   Promoting fair housing
   
151.06   Coverage; exemptions
   
151.07   Administration
   
151.08   Appeal procedure
Prohibited Acts
   
151.20   Discriminatory terms
   
151.21   Refusal to negotiate or deal
   
151.22   Withholding dwellings
   
151.23   Advertisements, signs and notices
   
151.24   Representation
   
151.25   Lending
   
151.26   Delay
   
151.27   Appraising, insurance
   
151.28   Listings
   
151.29   Multiple listing services
   
151.30   Steering
   
151.31   Participation
   
151.32   Restrictions
   
151.33   Aiding and abetting
   
151.34   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
151.35   Solicitation
Complaints, Conciliation, Hearing Process
   
151.50   Charge
   
151.51   Notice
   
151.52   Investigation
   
151.53   Report
   
151.54   Conciliation
   
151.55   Injunctive (temporary) relief
   
151.56   Hearings on complaint
   
151.57   Hearing decision
   
151.58   Recommended actions
Fair Housing Review Board
   
151.70   Creation
   
151.71   Duties
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is declared to be the public policy of this village in the exercise of
this power to regulate for the protection of the public health, safety, morals
and welfare: to assure fair housing and freedom from discrimination throughout
the community, to protect the community from the effects of residential
segregation by race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, age,
sex, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, parental status, military
discharge status, source of income, gender identity, or housing status, and to
secure to its citizens the economic, social and professional benefits of living
in a stable society.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.02 CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be construed according to the fair import of its terms,
and shall be liberally construed to further the purposes and policy stated and
the special purposes of the particular provisions involved.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.03 SEVERABILITY.
   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of this
chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision of
this chapter not specifically included in said judgment. If any court of
competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the application of any provision
of this chapter to any person or circumstance, such judgment shall not affect
the application of said provision to any other person or circumstance not
specifically included in said judgment.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATE. To treat any person differently from others because of race,
color, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, sex, marital status,
disability, sexual orientation, parental status, military discharge status,
source of income, gender identity, or housing status.
   LEASE. Any sublease, assignment or rental and any contract to enter into any
of the foregoing.
   OFFER. Every attempt by means of written or oral communications to present
for acceptance or rejection, to hold out or proffer, to make a proposal to; or
to exhibit real estate that may be taken or received with the intention of
ultimately entering a real estate transaction.
   OWNER. Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in, any real estate, or who holds legal or equitable title
to share of, or any beneficial interest in, an equity which owns any real
estate.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION. The purchase, sale of fee equitable title to, or
beneficial interest in, or rental or lease of, any real property, or an option
to do any of the foregoing, or any negotiation, listing, contract or agreement
in connection therewith.
   STEERING. Influencing or attempting to influence by words or acts the choice
or location of housing of a prospective purchaser, occupant, or tenant, in
connection with viewing, buying, leasing or occupying real estate based on
race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, sex, marital
status, disability, sexual orientation, parental status, military discharge
status, source of income, gender identity, or housing status so as to promote
or maintain segregation.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.05 PROMOTING FAIR HOUSING.
   (A)   The village shall promote fair housing in the community.
   (B)   In doing so, the village may provide residents and realtors with
brochures, organize community programs/meetings or take any other action it
deems appropriate to promote fair housing.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.06 COVERAGE; EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall:
   (A)   Apply to the rental, lease or occupancy of a room in an owner-occupied
single-family dwelling;
   (B)   Prohibit a religious organization, association or society, or any non-
profit institution or organization operated, supervised or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization or society from limiting the sale,
rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other than
commercial purposes to persons of the same religion or from giving preference
to such persons, unless membership in such religion is restricted on account of
race, color, ancestry, national origin, age or handicap;
   (C)   Prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public, which as an
incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or
operates for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or
occupancy of such lodgings to its members and their guests from giving
preference to their members;
   (D)   Prohibit the rental or sale of a dwelling on the basis of age or
handicap when such dwelling is authorized, approved, financed or subsidized in
whole or in part by a unit of state, local or federal government.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.07 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Board, with the advice of the Mayors and Presidents of each town, shall
appoint an Administrator. The Administrator shall have such duties,
responsibilities and powers as are necessary for the implementation of this
chapter and additionally as may be provided by the Board, including the
initiation, receipt and due processing of complaints.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.08 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Appeal procedure. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Village
Board, shall have the right to appeal in accordance with the following
procedure.
   (B)   Reconsideration by the full Village Board. This appeal shall be
initiated by filing with the Administrator, within seven calendar days of the
decision a written statement, under oath, setting forth specifically the
grounds for reconsideration. These grounds shall be supported by argument and
served on all parties at the time they are filed with the Administrator. The
Village Board, after reviewing the statement shall:
      (1)   Render a revised decision notifying all parties within 14 calendar
days of the filing of the statement for initial reconsideration;
      (2)   Issue and serve on all parties a written order for hearing the
case, citing the cause and additional evidence; or
      (3)   Uphold the decision.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 151.20 DISCRIMINATORY TERMS.
   It shall be unlawful to discriminate against any person in the terms,
conditions or privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision
of services or facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color,
religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, sex, marital status,
disability, sexual orientation, parental status, military discharge status,
source of income, gender identity, or housing status.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 REFUSAL TO NEGOTIATE OR DEAL.
   It shall be unlawful to refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a
bonafide offer, or to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or
otherwise make unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race,
color, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, sex, marital status,
disability, sexual orientation, parental status, military discharge status,
source of income, gender identity, or housing status.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.22 WITHHOLDING DWELLINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to represent to any person because of race, color,
religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, sex, marital status,
disability, sexual orientation, parental status, military discharge status,
source of income, gender identity, or housing status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.23 ADVERTISEMENTS, SIGNS AND NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed
or published, any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale
or rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, national
origin, age, sex, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, parental
status, military discharge status, source of income, gender identity, or
housing status, Section 8/housing choice voucher holder, Covered Criminal
History or an intention to make such preference, limitation or discrimination.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.24 REPRESENTATION.
   It shall be unlawful for profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person
to sell or rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or
prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular
race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, sex, marital
status, disability, sexual orientation, parental status, military discharge
status, source of income, gender identity, or housing status.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.25 LENDING.
   It shall be unlawful to discriminate in connection with borrowing or lending
money, guaranteeing loans, accepting mortgages, or otherwise financing a real
estate transaction because of race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, national
origin, age, sex, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, parental
status, military discharge status, source of income, gender identity, or
housing status.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.26 DELAY.
   It shall be unlawful to delay the processing of denying a loan or other
financial assistance to a person applying therefore for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to
discriminate in the fixing of that amount, interest rate, duration or other
terms or conditions of such loan or other financial assistance because of race,
color, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, sex, marital status,
disability, sexual orientation, parental status, military discharge status,
source of income, gender identity, or housing status of such person.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.27 APPRAISING, INSURANCE.
   It shall be unlawful to discriminate in appraising the value of real estate
or in the sale of insurance in connection with a real estate transaction
because of the race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, age,
sex, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, parental status, military
discharge status, source of income, gender identity, or housing status of the
person.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.28 LISTINGS.
   It shall be illegal to enter into a listing agreement which discriminates
against any person because of race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, national
origin, age, sex, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, parental
status, military discharge status, source of income, gender identity, or
housing status.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.29 MULTIPLE LISTING SERVICES.
   It shall be illegal to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against any person
in terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation on account
of race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, sex, marital
status, disability, sexual orientation, parental status, military discharge
status, source of income, gender identity, or housing status.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.30 STEERING.
   It shall be illegal to engage in steering.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.31 PARTICIPATION.
   It shall be illegal to act or undertake to act as a real estate broker,
salesman or agent with respect to any dwelling, the disposition of which
requires said person to participate in discrimination.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.32 RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be illegal to perform any act of discrimination with the intention
or effect of restricting or limiting the housing choice of any person.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.33 AIDING AND ABETTING.
   It shall be illegal to aid or abet acts performed in violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.34 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be illegal to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise of enjoyment of, or on account of, his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by this chapter.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.35 SOLICITATION.
   It shall be illegal to solicit any owner to sell or rent or list residential
property at any time after such person has notice that such owner does not
desire to sell, rent or list such residential property. For the purposes of
this section, notice must be provided as follows:
   (A)   The notice may be given by the owner personally or by a third party in
the owner's name, either in the form of an individual notice or a list,
provided it complies with division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Such notice shall be explicit as to whether each owner on the notice
seeks to avoid both solicitation for listing and sale, or only for listing, or
only for sale, as well as the period of time for which any avoidance is
desired. The notice shall be dated and either of the following shall apply:
      (1)   Each owner shall have signed the notice; or
      (2)   The person or entity preparing the notice shall provide an
accompanying affidavit to the effect that all the names on the notice are, in
fact, genuine as to the identity of the persons listed and that such persons
have requested not to be solicited as indicated.
   (C)   The individual notice or notice in the form of a list with the
accompanying affidavit shall be served personally or by certified or registered
mail, return receipt requested.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall publish and make available, without charge,
notice forms which may be executed by owners of residential property in the
village who do not desire to sell such residential property, or who do not
desire to list for sale such residential property. The Village Clerk shall
receive, file and index all notices submitted to the village on such forms by
owners of such residential property, and shall compile a suitable list of the
names and addresses of those owners who submit such forms. The Clerk shall
publish such lists as follows:
      (1)   By maintaining a copy of said list in the office of the Village
Clerk and making it available for public inspection and duplication, provided
that a reasonable duplication charge may be made;
      (2)   By furnishing a copy of said list annually plus a quarterly list of
additions and deletions to every real estate broker belonging to the local
municipal listing services; and
      (3)   By furnishing a copy of said list to any person known to be
soliciting owners of residential property within the village for the sale or
listing of such property. For purposes of this division, a person is "known to
be soliciting" when an owner or residential property in the village has
notified the Village Clerk, the Administering Agency or the Administrator, that
he or she has been so solicited.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
COMPLAINTS, CONCILIATION, HEARING PROCESS
§ 151.50 CHARGE.
   Any person aggrieved in any manner by a violation of any provision of this
chapter may file with the Board a written verified complaint setting forth his/
her grievance within 180 days after the date of the alleged violation. The
complaint shall state, on a printed form provided by the Board, such detail as
to substantially apprise any party, property concerned as to the time, place
and facts surrounding the alleged violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.51 NOTICE.
   Within 15 calendar days after a charge has been received or initiated by the
Review Board, the Chairman of the Review Board shall serve or cause to be
served, in person, or by certified mail, a copy of said complaint on the person
alleged to be in violation of this chapter, hereinafter referred to as
respondent.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.52 INVESTIGATION.
   The Chairperson of the Board shall order a prompt investigation of the
complaint.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.53 REPORT.
   Within 30 calendar days after a charge has been received or initiated by the
Board the Chairman shall determine whether:
   (A)   The alleged complaint does not constitute a violation of this chapter
and dismiss the complaint notifying the parties and advising the complainant of
the right to appeal to the Village Board.
   (B)   The alleged complaint does constitute a violation of this chapter, in
which case the Chairman will proceed with process of §
151.54.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.54 CONCILIATION.
   When a conciliation conference is determined necessary, the Chairman shall:
   (A)   Notify the complainant and respondent of the time, place and date of
the conciliation session at least ten days prior thereto, and either or both
parties shall appear at the conciliation session in person or by attorney;
   (B)   Attempt by all accepted methods of conciliation and lawful persuasion
to resolve the grievance delineated in the complaint; and
   (C)   If, within 60 calendar days after a charge has been received or
initiated by the Review Board, the Chairman determines that attempts at
conciliation would not be in furtherance of the objectives of this chapter, or
that the complaint cannot be resolved by conciliation, the Chairman shall so
report to the Review Board. The Review Board, shall, within 30 calendar days of
referral, refer the complaint to the adjudicative agency for a hearing.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.55 INJUNCTIVE (TEMPORARY) RELIEF.
   At any time after a complaint is filed and determined to constitute a
violation of this chapter, the Review Board may petition the appropriate court
for temporary relief, pending final determination of the proceedings under this
chapter, including an order or decree restraining the respondent from doing or
causing any act which would render ineffectual a recommendation with respect to
the complaint. Such petition shall contain a certification by the Review Board
that the particular matter presents exceptional circumstances in which
irreparable injury will result from a violation of this chapter in the absence
of temporary relief. The petition shall not exceed a five day period unless:
   (A)   A longer period is agreed to by the respondent; or
   (B)   The court finds that there is substantial evidence to demonstrate that
the respondent has engaged in violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.56 HEARINGS ON COMPLAINT.
   Within 30 calendar days after Review Board referral to the appropriate
village, the President and Board of Trustees or Council shall, upon due and
reasonable notice to all parties, conduct a hearing on the complaint. All
parties shall be entitled to be represented by legal counsel, and shall have
the right to call witnesses in their own behalf and to cross examine witnesses.
All parties to the proceedings may apply to the Village Board to have subpoenas
issued in the name of the Village Board. Testimony taken at the hearing shall
be under oath or affirmation, and the transcript shall be made and filed in the
Office of the Administrator. No fewer than three of the same members of the
Village Board must be present at all times. Only those members who have
attended all hearings on a matter shall participate in the determination of the
complaint.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.57 HEARING DECISION.
   When all testimony has been taken, the Review Board shall render its
decision in a written report with findings of fact that all served upon the
complainant and the respondent by certified mail within 15 calendar days
following the closing of the hearing.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.58 RECOMMENDED ACTIONS.
   (A)   If the Review Board finds that the respondent has not engaged in any
violation of this chapter, it shall dismiss the complaint.
   (B)   If the Review Board finds that the respondent has engaged in a
violation of this chapter, it shall refer to the appropriate village and advise
the President and Trustees or Council to take the following actions:
      (1)   Institute proceedings to enforce the provisions of this chapter
against any person found in violation;
      (2)   Apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for:
         (a)   An order restraining any person from violating any provision of
this chapter, or
         (b)   Such other or further relief as may seem to the court
appropriate for the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of
violations hereof, including, but not limited to, actual damage and/or
attorney's fees/costs for award to the complainant.
      (3)   Petition or institute proceedings with the Department of
Professional Registration for the purpose of causing the Department to revoke,
suspend or refuse to renew the license granted by such Department to any person
found to have violated any provision of this chapter;
      (4)   In the case of any violation of this chapter by any person in the
course of performing under a contract or sub-contract with the state or any
political subdivision or agency thereof, or with the United States of America
or any agency or instrumentality thereof, petition or institute proceedings
with such contracting agency for the purpose of causing it to terminate such
contract or any portion thereof, either absolutely or on condition or
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
FAIR HOUSING REVIEW BOARD
§ 151.70 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Fair Housing Review Board, consisting of five
members, who shall be residents of the Village of Stone Park and who shall each
serve for a term of three years. No person shall simultaneously serve as a
member of the Fair Housing Review Board and of the Board of Trustees of the
village. Each member shall be appointed by the Village President with the
advice and consent of the Trustees. The Chairman and Co-Chairman shall be
elected annually by a majority of the Fair Housing Review Board (Review Board).
The terms of office for the initial appointments shall be as follows: three
members for three years and two members for two years.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.71 DUTIES.
   The adjudicative responsibilities for this chapter shall be in the Fair
Housing Review Board. The Fair Housing Review Board shall have an execute with
respect to all dwellings and persons subject to this chapter the power:
   (A)   To hold hearing on, and make findings of fact with respect to any such
complaint;
   (B)   To administer oaths, take sworn testimony, and to subpoena witnesses
and pertinent documents, which power may be enforced by proper petition to any
court of competent jurisdiction;
   (C)   To recommend the issuance of orders subject to approval by the
Council, and to publish its findings of fact and recommendation orders in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter after submission to the Council;
   (D)   To render from time to time, but not less often than every 12 months,
a written report to municipal officials of its activities and recommendations
with respect to fair housing practices, which written report shall be made
public after submission to the Council; and
   (E)   To adopt, after approval of the Council, such rules and regulations as
may be necessary and desirable to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Judicial relief. Any person aggrieved by the violation of any
provision of this chapter, who has exhausted the remedies provided by this
chapter, may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for appropriate
relief from such violation, including:
      (1)   An order compelling compliance with this chapter;
      (2)   Compensatory/punitive damages; or
      (3)   Such other and further-relief as may seem appropriate to the court
for the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of violations thereof.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each violation.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 2-17-2010; Ord. 22-06, passed 3-22-2022)
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Compliance
   
152.03   Minimum space
   
152.04   Garbage; insect and rodent control
   
152.05   Fire extinguisher
   
152.06   Sanitary, electrical and safety appliances
   
152.07   Electrical outlets
   
152.08   Community kitchens, dining rooms and laundry facilities
   
152.09   Porches and canopies
   
152.10   Streets and driveways
   
152.11   Certain homes prohibited
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.25   Duties of Health Inspector
   
152.26   Attendant or caretaker
Licenses and Permits
   
152.40   Required
   
152.41   Application
   
152.42   Issuance
   
152.43   Fees
   
152.44   Revocation or suspension
Water; Wastewater; Sewers
   
152.55   Water supply
   
152.56   Drainage; wastewater
   
152.57   Sewage and water-carried wastes
   
152.58   Sewer connections
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and constructed
as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently attached to
its frame, from the place of its construction to the location or subsequent
locations at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and designed to
permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling for one or more persons.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land upon which five or more independent mobile
homes are harbored either free of charge or for revenue purposes. MOBILE HOME
PARK shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or
intended to be used as part of the equipment of the mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974)
§ 152.02 COMPLIANCE.
   Each mobile home park licensed or to be constructed under the provisions of
this chapter shall be operated and maintained in accordance with the
requirements contained in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 MINIMUM SPACE.
   (A)   Each mobile home shall be allotted a site of not less than 1,000
square feet.
   (B)   No mobile home shall be parked closer than five feet to the side lines
of a park or closer than ten feet to a public street, alley or building. Each
individual site shall abut or face a private or public driveway or roadway of
not less than 24 feet in width, which driveway or roadway shall have
unobstructed access to a public highway or alley. There shall be an open space
of at least ten feet adjacent to the sides of every mobile home and at least
five feet adjacent to the ends of every mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 GARBAGE; INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   A sufficient number of adequate fly-proof and water-tight containers
shall be supplied for the storage of garbage, except where an adequate
incinerator is provided.
   (B)   Garbage containers shall be emptied at least once a week and shall not
be filled to overflowing, or allowed to become foul smelling or a breeding
place for flies.
   (C)   Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner which creates
neither a nuisance nor a menace to health and which is approved by the village.
   (D)   Adequate insect and rodent control measures shall be employed. All
buildings shall be fly- and rodent-proof. Rodent harborages shall not be
permitted to exist in the park or pathways.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 FIRE EXTINGUISHER.
   (A)   Mobile homes in mobile home parks each shall be equipped with fire
extinguishers in working order, one in each end of the mobile home.
   (B)   Inspection of any equipment and enforcement of any ordinance adopted
pursuant to this section shall be the duty of the State Fire Marshal and local
law enforcement agencies in the village.
(Prior Code, § 152.05) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 SANITARY, ELECTRICAL AND SAFETY APPLIANCES.
   The management of every park shall assume full responsibility for
maintaining in good repair and condition all sanitary, electrical and safety
appliances in the park and promptly shall bring action necessary to prosecute
or evict from the park any person who fails to comply with the regulations of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.06) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 ELECTRICAL OUTLETS.
   Electrical outlets for each individual site shall be provided and the
installation shall be in accordance with all state or local codes and
ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 152.07) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 COMMUNITY KITCHENS, DINING ROOMS AND LAUNDRY FACILITIES.
   When community kitchens, dining rooms, laundries or other facilities are
provided, the facilities and equipment as are supplied shall be maintained in a
sanitary condition and kept in good repair and subject to this code.
(Prior Code, § 152.08) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 PORCHES AND CANOPIES.
   Temporary porches, canvas-roofed canopies and skirts shall be permitted for
mobile homes. Auxiliary rooms may be authorized by ordinance if constructed of
fire-resistant materials of the specifications as shall be required by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.09) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 STREETS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   All streets and driveways in every park shall be maintained in a passable
and reasonably dust-proof condition at all times. All streets and driveways in
every park established after passage of this chapter shall have a minimum width
of 24 feet for streets or driveways.
(Prior Code, § 152.10) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 CERTAIN HOMES PROHIBITED.
   In no event shall a dependent mobile home or non-permanent shelter or other
vehicle designed or used for sleeping purposes, other than an independent
mobile home, be permitted for occupancy at any time in a mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 152.11) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.25 DUTIES OF HEALTH INSPECTOR.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced primarily by the Village
Health Inspector, who shall be responsible for the final approval of
applications and permits and shall make all inspections and orders necessary to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The Health Inspector
also shall direct the duties of other department heads whose services are
required for additional inspections.
(Prior Code, § 152.20) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974)
§ 152.26 ATTENDANT OR CARETAKER.
   Every mobile home park shall be in the charge or a responsible attendant or
caretaker whose name shall be on file at all times with the village and whose
duty it shall be to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in a clean,
orderly and sanitary condition and shall be responsible, with the licensee, for
any violations of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.21) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974)
LICENSES AND PERMITS
§ 152.40 REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish, maintain, conduct or
operate a mobile home park without first obtaining a license therefor from the
village.
   (B)   As used in this chapter, the phrase, CONDUCT OR OPERATE A MOBILE HOME
PARK shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, supplying or maintaining
common water, sewer or other utility supplies or services or the collection of
rents directly or indirectly from five or more independent mobile homes.
   (C)   The license shall expire one year from the date of issue and a new
license may be issued upon proper application and payment of the annual license
fee provided the applicant is in substantial compliance with this code.
(Prior Code, § 152.30) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.41 APPLICATION.
   (A)   In order to obtain a permit to construct or operate a mobile home
park, the applicant shall file with the village a written application and plan
documents setting forth:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant or names and addresses
of the partners if the applicant is a partnership or the names and addresses of
the officers if the applicant is a corporation and the present or last
occupation of the applicant at the time of filing of the application;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the tract of land upon which
it is proposed to operate and maintain a mobile home park;
      (3)   The proposed and existing facilities in the mobile home park for
water supply, sewage, garbage and waste disposal, fire protection and the
proposed alterations therein and the maintenance thereof;
      (4)   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon which
the park is to be located;
      (5)   The plot plans of the park, building plans and specifications for
existing buildings and facilities or the proposed alterations in existing
facilities, all as may be required under this code; and
      (6)   A statement of the firefighting facilities, public or private,
which are available to the mobile home park.
   (B)   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters contained
in the application shall be attached thereto.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a fee of $50; once paid, this
fee shall not be refunded.
   (D)   Permits shall be valid for one year from the date of issue, but may be
extended by the village.
(Prior Code, § 152.31) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.42 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Permits to construct or an application for a license to operate shall
be issued only upon inspection indicating full compliance with this code.
   (B)   The applications described in division (A) above do not relieve the
applicant from securing appropriate building permits from the village or from
complying with any applicable provisions of this code, the Zoning Ordinance or
any other ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 152.32) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.43 FEES.
   In addition to the application fee provided in §
152.41(C), the applicant shall pay to the village on or before April 30 of each
year or at another date the village may designate an annual license fee, which
shall be $25, plus $10 for each mobile home in the park.
(Prior Code, § 152.33) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.44 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license granted under this subchapter shall be subject to
revocation or suspension by the village.
   (B)   However, the village first shall serve or cause to be served upon the
licensee written notice in which shall be specified the way in which the
licensee has failed to comply.
   (C)   The notice shall require the licensee to remove or abate the nuisance,
insanitary or objectionable condition specified in the notice within five days
or within a longer period of time as may be allowed by the village.
   (D)   If the licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions of this
notice within the time specified or an extension, the village may revoke or
suspend the license.
(Prior Code, § 152.34) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974)
WATER; WASTEWATER; SEWERS
§ 152.55 WATER SUPPLY.
   An adequate supply of water of safe, sanitary quality, approved by the
village, shall be furnished at each mobile home park. Where water from sources
other than that supplied by the village is proposed to be used, the source of
each supply first shall be provided with a cold water tap at least four inches
above the ground. The water supplies shall comply with the minimum standards
established by regulations of the State Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 152.40) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.56 DRAINAGE; WASTEWATER.
   No mobile home park shall be located so the drainage of the park area will
endanger any water supply. All parks shall be well drained. No wastewater shall
be deposited on the surface of the ground within the mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 152.41) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.57 SEWAGE AND WATER-CARRIED WASTES.
   All sewage and other water-carried wastes shall be disposed of into a
municipal sewerage system whenever the interceptor or sewer mains adjacent to
the park. At parks in which the connections are not available, disposal shall
be into a private system which includes a sanitary means of disposal, the
operation of which creates neither a nuisance nor a menace to health.
(Prior Code, § 152.42) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.58 SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   When a water carriage system of sewage is used, each site shall be
provided with a sewer connection for the combined liquid waste outlet of each
mobile home.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner or operator of a mobile home park to
provide an approved type of water- and odor-tight connection from the mobile
home water drainage to the sewer connection.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner or operator to make the connection
and keep all occupied mobile homes connected to the sewer while located in the
park. Sewer connections in unoccupied sites shall be closed so they will emit
no odors or cause a breeding place for flies. No water or waste shall be
allowed to fall on the ground from a mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 152.43) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any other provisions contained herein, whoever violates
any section of this chapter shall be guilty of six months or both fined and
imprisoned. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   In addition to all other remedies, the village may sue or enjoin or
restrain existing violations under this chapter, or to enjoin the operation of
any mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 152.99) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Lot size
   
153.02   Taxes
Plats
   
153.15   Contents
   
153.16   Copy
   
153.17   Custody
Cross-reference:
   Comprehensive Plan, see
Ch. 155
   Zoning, see
Ch. 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 LOT SIZE.
   No plat or subdivision shall be approved unless every lot thereon shall be
of sufficient area to comply with the Zoning Ordinance of the village,
requirements for the size of lots in an “A” residential area district.
(Prior Code, § 153.01)
§ 153.02 TAXES.
   All taxes and assessments on property platted must be paid before the plat
shall be recorded as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 153.02)
PLATS
§ 153.15 CONTENTS.
   (A)   Plats shall be drawn to scale and show all lot lines, street lines,
utilities, pavements and monuments. On permanent monument shall be placed at
each corner of each lot.
   (B)   No plat of a subdivision shall be approved unless all street and
sidewalk pavements and water and sewer mains have been installed or provision
has been made to ensure the installation, in compliance with this code.
(Prior Code, § 153.10)
§ 153.16 COPY.
   Any person hereafter subdividing any piece or parcel of land, block, lot or
sublot or any part thereof in the village shall make a map or plat thereof and
before recording it in the County Recorder’s office, as provided by law, shall
submit it with a duplicate thereof to the Village President and Board of
Trustees for approval or rejection. If approved, the approval shall be
certified thereon, signed by the President and attested by the Clerk. No map or
plat shall be valid or entitled to record until it has been approved.
(Prior Code, § 153.11)
§ 153.17 CUSTODY.
   The duplicate of a subdivision map or plat, as required by §
153.16, shall be kept on file with the Village Clerk. No map or plat shall be
approved until it has been properly certified by a surveyor and acknowledged by
the owner, as provided by statute, not until all the streets therein are graded
and placed in good traveling condition by the party asking for approval.
(Prior Code, § 153.12)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
   
154.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 154.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The village’s zoning regulations, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 02-33, passed 11-26-2002; Ord. 03-10, passed 5-13-2003; Ord. 03-18,
passed 6-24-2003; Ord. 04-29, passed 9-28-2004; Ord. 06-10, passed 8-28-2006;
Ord. 09-09, passed 12-8-2009; Ord. 12-11, passed 7-24-2012; Ord. 13-19, passed
11-12-2013; Ord. 17-13, passed 8-8-2017; Ord. 22-19, passed 8-9-2022)
CHAPTER 155: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
155.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 155.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The village’s comprehensive plan regulations, and any and all amendments,
are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 02-32, passed 11-26-2002)
CHAPTER 156: FLOODPLAINS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Purpose
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Building Inspector; duties
   
156.04   Enforcement officials; duties
   
156.05   Base flood elevation
   
156.06   Development requirements
   
156.07   Variances
   
156.08   Disclaimer of liability
   
156.09   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
156.10   Separability
   
156.11   Effective date
   
156.12   Flood insurance rate map
Flood Fringe Areas; Occupation and Use
   
156.25   Generally
   
156.26   Development permit
   
156.27   Preventing increased damages
   
156.28   Construction of the lowest floor below the base flood elevation (BFE)
Designated Floodways; Occupation and Use
   
156.40   Generally
   
156.41   Development permit
   
156.42   Preventing increased damages; list of appropriate uses
SFHA Areas Where Floodways Not Identified; Occupation and Use
   
156.55   Generally
   
156.56   Development permit
   
156.57   Preventing increased damages
Permitting Requirements Applicable to All Floodplain Areas
   
156.70   Generally
   
156.71   Public health standards
   
156.72   Carrying capacity and notification
   
156.73   Protecting buildings
 
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the
village by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1, 11-12-12, 11-30-2, 11-30-8 and 11-31-
2 (1994). The purpose of this chapter is to maintain the village’s eligibility
in the National Flood Insurance Program; to minimize potential losses due to
periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare;
and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve economic
and natural values and provide for the wise utilization of water and related
land resources.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted in order to accomplish the following specific
purposes:
      (1)   To meet the requirements of ILCS Ch. 615, Act 5, § 18g, Rivers,
Lakes and Streams Act;
      (2)   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or
drainage hazards to others, or creating unstable conditions susceptible to
erosion;
      (3)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
      (4)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
      (5)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities and flood rescue and
relief operations;
      (6)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property
in the village by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program;
      (7)   To comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 C.F.R. parts 59 through 79, as amended;
      (8)   To protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land
and water resources; and
      (9)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of
watercourses and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water
impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and
riparian habitat, provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic
benefits and enhance community and economic development.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principal structure.
   ACT. An Act in Relation to the Regulation of the Rivers, Lakes and Streams
of the State of Illinois, ILCS Ch. 615, Act 5, §§ 5 et seq.
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
   APPROPRIATE USE. Only uses of the designated floodway that are permissible
and will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed
are as specified in §
156.42 of this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FREQUENCY FLOOD EVENT.
Application of the base flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
156.05 of this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, mobile home or a prefabricated building. This term also
includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site
for more than 180 days, unless fully licensed and ready for highway use.
   CHANNEL. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash or natural or human-made drainageway, which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface or groundwater flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
   CHANNEL MODIFICATION. Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. CHANNEL MODIFICATION includes
damming, rip-rapping (or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of native vegetation from the bottom
or banks. CHANNEL MODIFICATION does not include the clearing of dead or dying
vegetation, debris or trash from the channel.
   CHANNELIZATION. A severe form of channel modification involving a
significant change in the channel cross-section and typically involving
relocation of the existing channel (e.g., straightening).
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off-site flood water elevations and flows.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A DESIGNATED FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE. Preconstruction
approval by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of a proposed change to the floodway map. This
preconstruction approval, pursuant hereto, gives assurances to the property
owner that once an appropriate use is constructed according to permitted plans,
the floodway map can be changed, as previously agreed, upon review and
acceptance of as-built plans.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A letter which indicates that
FEMA will revise base flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood
boundaries or floodway as shown on an effective flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map, once the as-built plans are submitted and approved.
   CONTROL STRUCTURE. A structure designed to control the rate of flow that
passes through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water
surface elevation.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any public or private facility which, if flooded, would
create an added dimension to the disaster or would increase the hazard to life
and health. Examples are public buildings, emergency operations and
communication centers and the like.
   DAM. All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
   DESIGNATED FLOODWAY.
      (1)   The channel, including on-stream lakes, and that portion of the
floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse, generally depicted on the FEMA
FIRM map, which is needed to store and convey the existing 100-year frequency
flood discharge with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage due to the loss
of flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a 10% increase in velocities.
      (2)   The floodways are designated on the countywide flood insurance rate
map of the county prepared by FEMA and dated 8-19-2008. When two floodway maps
exist for a waterway, the more restrictive floodway limit shall prevail.
      (3)   The floodways for those parts of the unincorporated county that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village that may be annexed
into the village are designated for Addison Creek on the countywide flood
insurance rate map prepared by FEMA and dated 8-19-2008.
      (4)   To locate the designated floodway boundary on any site, the
designated floodway boundary should be scaled off the designated floodway map
and located on a site plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where
interpretation is needed to determine the exact location of the designated
floodway boundary, IDNR/OWR should be contacted for the interpretation
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate, including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, repair or placement of a building
or any addition to a building;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than 180 days. If the travel trailer or recreational vehicle is
on site for more than 180 days, it must be fully licensed and ready for highway
use;
         (c)   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads,
bridges or similar projects;
         (d)   Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site;
         (e)   Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction;
         (f)   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams or
culverts; channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other non-agricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of
materials; deposit of solid or liquid waste; and
         (g)   Any other activity of humans that might change the direction,
height or velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation
removal;
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities such as re-roofing or resurfacing of roads when there
is no increase in elevation, or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural
practices that do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATES. A form published by FEMA that is used to certify the
elevation to which a building has been elevated.
   EROSION. The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or
wave action.
   EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS. Organizations which are exempt from this chapter per
Illinois Compiled Statutes (ILCS) including state, federal or local units of
government.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed before 4-1-1990.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency and its regulations at 44 C.F.R.
parts 59 through 79 revised as of 10-1-2001. This incorporation does not
include any later editions or amendments.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP. An official map of a community where the
boundaries of the flood having special hazard areas have been designated as
“Zone A”.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS (FIRM). A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a community. This map includes
insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or may not depict floodways.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN.
      (1)   Land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. FLOODPLAINS may also include detached special flood hazard areas,
ponding areas and the like. The FLOODPLAIN is also known as the SPECIAL FLOOD
HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
      (2)   The FLOODPLAINS are those lands within the jurisdiction of the
village that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood. The SFHAs of the village are generally identified as such on panel
number(s) 0367, 0369, 0386, 0388 of the countywide flood insurance rate map of
the village prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 8-19-
2008.
      (3)   The SFHAs of those parts of the unincorporated county that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed
into the village are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate
map prepared for the county by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
dated 6-2-2005, and the amendments or revisions to the study and maps as may be
prepared from time to time.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood or 100-
year frequency flood, plus one foot of freeboard at any given location in the
SFHA.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminary determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminary determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminary
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the State Historic Preservation Agency; and
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the State Historic Preservation Agency.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS. Engineering analysis which determine
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). Official determination by FEMA that a
specific structure is not in a 100-year flood zone; amends the effective flood
hazard boundary map (FHBM) or FIRM.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or
floodways as shown on an effective FHBM or FIRM.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, the enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOMES also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than 180 consecutive days. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION. Those measures necessary to minimize the negative effects which
floodplain development activities might have on the public health, safety and
welfare. Examples of MITIGATION include compensatory storage, soil erosion and
sedimentation control, and channel restoration. MITIGATION may also include
those activities taken to reduce a structure’s susceptibility to flooding.
   NATURAL. When used in reference to channels, means those channels formed by
the existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by humans. A
NATURAL stream tends to follow a meandering path; its floodplain is not
constrained by levees; the area near the bank has not been cleared, mowed or
cultivated; the stream flows over soil and geologic materials typical of the
area with no substantial alteration of the course or cross-section of the
stream caused by filling or excavating. A modified channel may regain some
natural characteristics over time as the channel meanders and vegetation is re-
established. Similarly, a modified channel may be restored to more NATURAL
conditions by humans through regrading and revegetation.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to the structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed on or after 4-1-
1990.
   NGVD. National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929. Reference surface set by the
National Geodetic Survey deduced from a continental adjustment of all existing
adjustments in 1929.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM). The point on the bank or shore up to which
the presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristics.
   PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT. A flood control project which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures which includes a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing
and proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall
preclude the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or in
part, of a flood control project by persons or parties who are not public
agencies.
   PUBLIC BODIES OF WATERS. All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft, in whole or in part, for commercial uses and purposes,
and all lakes, rivers and streams which in their natural condition were capable
of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or discharge
their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within, or upon the borders of the
state, together with all bayous, sloughs, backwaters and submerged lands that
are open to the main channel or body of water directly accessible thereto.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor registered in the state, under the
State Land Surveyors Act (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 330, §§ 1 et seq.).
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer registered in the state, under
the State Professional Engineering Practice Act (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 325, §§ 1 et
seq.).
   REPAIR, REMODELING or MAINTENANCE. Development activities which do not
result in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes
to the dimensions of a structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damaged occurred.
   RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY. A retention facility stores storm water runoff
without a gravity release. A DETENTION FACILITY provides for storage of storm
water runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a flood or
storm.
   RIVERINE SFHA. Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek,
intermittent stream, ditch, on-stream lake system or any other identified
channel. This term does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes,
ponding areas, areas of sheet flow or other areas not subject to overbank
flooding.
   RUNOFF. The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land
surface, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
   SEDIMENTATION. The processes that deposit soils, debris and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or watercourses.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Any base flood area subject to flooding
from a river, creek, intermittent stream, ditch or any other identified channel
or ponding and shown on a flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map
as Zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99, AH, VO, V30, VE, V, M, E or D.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided, the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation.
   STRUCTURE. The results of a human-made change to the land constructed on or
below the ground, including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a
building or any addition to a building; installing a manufactured home on a
site; preparing a site for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer
on a site for more than 180 days unless they are fully licensed and ready for
highway use.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials
must be included in this determination. Damage of less than 50% of the fair
market value will be applied to the repetitive loss calculations.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building.
      (3)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places; provided
that, the alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as
a historic structure.
   TRANSITION SECTION. Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from
a narrow cross-section to a wide cross-section or vice versa.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in VIOLATION until a time as
that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005; Ord. 08-17, passed 8-14-2008)
§ 156.03 BUILDING INSPECTOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall be responsible for fulfilling all of the
duties listed in §
156.04.
   (B)   To fulfill those duties, the Building Inspector first should use the
criteria listed in §
156.05 to determine whether the development site is located within a
floodplain.
   (C)   Once it has been determined that a site is located within a
floodplain, the Building Inspector determine whether the development site is
within a flood fringe, a designated floodway or within a SFHA or floodplain for
which no floodway has been identified.
      (1)   If the site is within a flood fringe, the Building Inspector shall
require that the minimum requirements of §§
156.25 through
156.28 be met.
      (2)   If the site is within a floodway, the Building Inspector shall
require that the minimum requirements of §§
156.40 through
156.42 be met.
      (3)   If the site is located within a SFHA or floodplain for which no
detailed study has been completed and approved, the Building Inspector shall
require that the minimum requirements of §§
156.55 through
156.57 be met.
   (D)   In addition, the general requirements of §§
156.70 through
156.73 shall be met for all developments meeting the requirements of §§
156.25 through
156.28,
156.40 through
156.42 or
156.55 through
156.57.
   (E)   The Building Inspector shall assure that all subdivision proposals
shall meet the requirements of §
156.06.
   (F)   If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the Building Inspector
shall review the requirements of §
156.07 to make sure they are met. In addition, the Building Inspector shall
complete all notification requirements.
   (G)   In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in
this chapter, the village may take any and all actions as outlined in §
156.99.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.04 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS; DUTIES.
   The Building Department (specifically, the Building Inspector) shall be
responsible for the general administration and enforcement of this chapter,
which shall include the following.
   (A)   Determining the floodplain designation.
      (1)   Check all new development sites to determine whether they are in a
special flood hazard area (SFHA);
      (2)   If they are in a SFHA, determine whether they are in a floodway,
flood fringe or in a floodplain for which a detailed study has not been
conducted and which drains more than one square mile; and
      (3)   Check whether the development is potentially within an extended
SFHA (with a drainage area less than one square mile), indicating that the
development would have adverse impacts regarding storage, conveyance or
inundation which would be the basis for the applicant being required to
delineate the floodplain and floodway and be subject to the remaining sections
of this chapter.
   (B)   Professional engineer review.
      (1)   If the development site is within a floodway or in a floodplain for
which a detailed study has not been conducted and which drains more than one
square mile, the permit shall be referred to a registered professional engineer
under the employ or contract of the village for review to ensure that the
development meets §§
156.40 through
156.42 or
156.55 through
156.57.
      (2)   In the case of an appropriate use, the P.E. shall state in writing
that the development meets the requirements of §§
156.40 through
156.42.
   (C)   Dam safety requirements.
      (1)   Ensure that an IDNR/OWR permit has been issued or a letter
indicating no permit is required, if the proposed development activity includes
construction of a dam, as defined in §
156.02.
      (2)   Regulated dams may include weirs, restrictive culverts or
impoundment structures.
   (D)   Other permit requirements. Ensure that any and all required federal,
state and local permits are received prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit.
   (E)   Plan review and permit issuance.
      (1)   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this chapter; and
      (2)   Issue a floodplain development permit in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and other regulations of this community when the
development meets the conditions of this chapter.
   (F)   Inspection review. Inspect all development projects before, during and
after construction to assure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (G)   Damage determinations. Make damage determinations of all damaged
buildings in the SFHA after a flood to determine substantially damaged
structures which must comply with §
156.73(A).
   (H)   Elevation and floodproofing certificates. Maintain permit files
including:
      (1)   An elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of a residential or non-residential building subject
to §§
156.70 through
156.73 of this chapter; and/or
      (2)   The elevation to which a non-residential building has been
floodproofed, using a floodproofing certificate, for all buildings subject to
§§
156.70 through
156.73 of this chapter.
   (I)   Records for public inspection. Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA and designated floodway maps, copies
of federal or state permit documents, variance documentation, conditional
letter of map revision, letter of map revision, letter of map amendment and
“as-built” elevation and floodproofing and/or elevation certificates for all
buildings constructed subject to this chapter.
   (J)   State permits. Ensure that construction authorization has been granted
by IDNR/OWR, for all development projects subject to §§
156.40 through
156.42 and
156.55 through
156.57 of this chapter, unless enforcement responsibility has been delegated to
the village. However, the following review approvals are not delegated to the
village and shall require review or permits from IDNR/OWR:
      (1)   Organizations which are exempt from this chapter, as per the
Illinois Compiled Statutes;
      (2)   IDNR/OWR projects, dams or impoundment structures, as defined in §
156.02, and all other state, federal or local unit of government projects,
including projects of the village and county, except for those projects meeting
the requirements of §
156.42(G) of this chapter;
      (3)   An engineer’s determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, per §
156.42(C)(5) of this chapter;
      (4)   An engineer’s analysis of the flood profile due to §
156.42(C)(4) of this chapter;
      (5)   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in §
156.42(C)(1), (C)(2) and (C)(8) of this chapter;
      (6)   Permit issuance of structures within, under or over publicly
navigable rivers, lakes and streams;
      (7)   Any changes in the base flood elevation or floodway locations; and
      (8)   Base flood elevation determinations where none now exist.
   (K)   Cooperation with other agencies.
      (1)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood or 100-year frequency flood and floodway data and to improve
the administration of this chapter;
      (2)   Submit data to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for proposed revisions of a
regulatory map within six months whenever a modification of the floodplain may
change the base flood elevation or result in a change to the floodplain map;
      (3)   Submit reports as required for the National Flood Insurance
Program; and
      (4)   Notify FEMA of any proposed amendments to this chapter.
   (L)   Promulgate regulations. Promulgate rules and regulations as necessary
to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, subject however to
the review and approval of IDNR/OWR and FEMA for any chapter changes.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.05 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is based on the flood insurance
study for the village.
   (B)   (1)   If a base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood elevation
is not available for a particular site, then the protection standard shall be
according to the best existing data available in the State Water Survey’s
Floodplain Information Repository that has been approved by IDNR/OWR and FEMA.
      (2)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs
of Addison Creek shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
flood insurance study of the county prepared by FEMA and dated 8-19-2008, and
the amendments to the study and maps as may be prepared from time to time.
   (C)   When a party disagrees with the best available data, he or she shall
finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace existing data with
better data and submit it to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for approval prior to any
development of the site.
   (D)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
Addison Creek shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
flood insurance study of the village prepared by FEMA and dated 6-2-2005, and
the amendments or revisions to the study and maps as may be prepared from time
to time.
   (E)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into the village shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of the
county prepared by FEMA and dated 6-2-2005, and the amendments or revisions to
the study and maps as may be prepared from time to time.
   (F)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each SFHA
delineated as an “AH Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the flood insurance rate map of the village.
   (G)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of the
remaining SFHAs delineated as an “A Zone” on the flood insurance rate map of
the village shall be according to the best existing data available in the State
Water Survey Floodplain Information Repository.
   (H)   When no base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation exists, the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall be
determined from a backwater model, such as HEC-II, WSP-2 or a dynamic model
such as HIP.
   (I)   The flood flows used in the hydraulic models shall be obtained from a
hydrologic model, such as HEC-I, TR-20 or HIP, or by techniques presented in
various publications prepared by the United States Geological Survey for
estimating peak flood discharges.
   (J)   Along any watercourses draining more than one square mile, the above
analyses shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for approval. Once approved, it must be
submitted to the State Water Survey Floodplain Information Repository for
filing.
   (K)   For a non-riverine SFHA, the base flood elevation shall be the
historic flood of record plus three feet, unless calculated by a detailed
engineering study and approved by IDNR/OWR for drainage areas greater than one
square mile.
   (L)   For an unmapped extended SFHA (with a drainage area less than one
square mile) which has been identified by the Building Inspector pursuant to §
156.04(C), the base flood elevation shall be determined by the applicant
utilizing a method as approved in division (D) above, with concurrence of the
Building Inspector.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005; Ord. 08-17, passed 8-14-2008)
§ 156.06 DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall take into account flood hazards, to the
extent that they are known in all official actions related to land management,
use and development.
   (B)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements and
planned unit developments (PUDs) within the SFHA shall be reviewed to assure
that the proposed developments are consistent with §§
156.25 through
156.28,
156.40 through
156.42,
156.55 through
156.57 and
156.70 through
156.73 of this chapter and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or plans
for new subdivisions, mobile home parks and planned unit developments (PUDs)
shall include a signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
plat or plans account for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2).
   (C)   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel
trailer parks, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured
home parks and additions to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation data and floodway delineations.
      (1)   Where this information is not available from an existing study
filed with the State Water Survey, the applicant’s engineer shall be
responsible for calculating the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation per division (D) below and the floodway delineation per the
definition in §
156.02.
      (2)   The applicant’s engineer shall submit the data to IDNR/OWR for
review and approval as best available regulatory data and then send it to the
State Water Survey.
   (D)   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall not approve any planned unit development
(PUD) or plat of subdivision located outside the corporate limits unless the
agreement or plat is in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.07 VARIANCES.
   (A)   No variances shall be granted to any development located in a
designated floodway, as defined in §
156.02.
      (1)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Building
Department for a variance.
      (2)   The Building Department shall review the applicant’s request for a
variance and shall submit its recommendation to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety,
beneficial stream uses and functions, especially aquatic habitat or creation of
a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
lost environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operations,
policing or repairs to streambeds and banks, roads, utilities or other public
facilities;
      (6)   The provisions of §§
156.27 and
156.57 of this chapter shall still be met;
      (7)   The activity is not in a designated floodway;
      (8)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not represent a
general problem; and
      (9)   The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character
of the area involved including existing stream uses.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of §§
156.70 through
156.73 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as $25 per $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that he or she will acknowledge in writing that he or she assumes the risk
and liability.
   (D)   Variances requested in connection with restoration of a historic site
or historic structure, as defined in §
156.02, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the requirements of
divisions (B) and (C) above, subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.08 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   (B)   Larger floods may occur or flood heights may be increased by human-
made or natural causes.
   (C)   This chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside
of the SFHA, will be free from flooding or damage.
   (D)   This chapter does not create liability on the part of the village or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.09 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   (B)   Where this chapter and other ordinance, easements, covenants or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
   (C)   This chapter is intended to repeal the original ordinance or
resolution which was adopted to meet the National Flood Insurance Program
regulations, but is not intended to repeal the resolution which the village
passed in order to establish initial eligibility for the program.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.10 SEPARABILITY.
   The provisions and sections of this chapter shall be deemed separable and
the invalidity of any portion of this chapter shall not affect the validity of
the remainder.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.11 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval and publication, as required by law.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.12 FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP.
   The flood insurance rate map, and any and all amendments, is hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 08-12, passed 6-24-2008)
FLOOD FRINGE AREAS; OCCUPATION AND USE
§ 156.25 GENERALLY.
   Development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be permitted if
protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year frequency flood by
proper elevation, and compensatory storage, and other applicable provisions of
this chapter. No use will be permitted which adversely affects the capacity of
drainage facilities or systems. Developments located within the flood fringe
shall meet the requirements of this subchapter, along with the requirements of
§§
156.70 through
156.73 of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.26 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining a
development permit from the Building Department.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form provided
by the Building Department.
      (1)   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site, drawn
to scale, showing property line dimensions and legal description for the
property and sealed by a licensed engineer, architect or land surveyor;
existing grade elevations in MSL, 1929 adj. datum or NGVD and all changes in
grade resulting from excavation or filling; the location and dimensions of all
buildings and additions to buildings.
      (2)   For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted
plans and the development will be subject to the requirements of §§
156.70 through
156.73 of this chapter.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a development permit application, the Building
Inspector shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation.
      (1)   Any development located on land that can be shown to be higher than
the base flood elevation of the current flood insurance rate map and which has
not been filled after the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate map
without a permit as required by this chapter is not in the SFHA and, therefore,
not subject to the requirements of this chapter. Conversely, any development
located on land shown to be below the base flood elevation and hydraulically
connected, but shown on the current flood insurance rate map is subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate
map identification.
   (D)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas shall be
submitted. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
   (E)   The Building Inspector shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state and local permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
Building Inspector shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state and
local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.27 PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES.
   (A)   Hazards. No development in the flood fringe shall create a threat to
public health and safety.
   (B)   Submitting data. If fill is being used to elevate the site above the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall submit
sufficient data and obtain a letter of map revision (LOMR) from FEMA for the
purpose of removing the site from the floodplain.
   (C)   Compensatory storage.
      (1)   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
      (2)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-half
times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
      (3)   In the case of streams and watercourses, the excavation shall be
made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
      (4)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing ten-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing ten-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed ten-year flood elevation.
      (5)   All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.28 CONSTRUCTION OF THE LOWEST FLOOR BELOW THE BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).
   (A)   A person who has obtained a letter of map revision based on fill that
removes a site in the flood fringe from the floodplain due to the use of fill
to elevate the site above the BFE, may apply for a permit from the village to
construct the lowest floor of a residential building below the BFE in the flood
fringe. The Building Inspector shall not issue a permit unless the applicant
has complied with all the criteria set forth in the following division (B).
   (B)   Compensatory storage shall be provided per §
156.27(C).
      (1)   The elevation of the lowest opening in the basement wall (i.e.,
window wells, accessways) shall be at or above the flood protection elevation
(FPE).
      (2)   The lowest adjacent grade to the foundation shall be at or above
the FPE, for a minimum distance of ten feet beyond the outside face of the
structure. However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be
met, the Building Inspector may waive the ten-foot minimum setback if a state
registered professional engineer certifies that an alternative method to
protect the building from damage due to hydrostatic pressures has been met. The
certifications shall be in the form of a detailed soils and structural design
analysis, which shall be submitted to the Building Department for review. The
Building Inspector may require additional documentation as necessary to prove
that the proposed shorter setback distance will keep the structure reasonably
safe. In no case shall the setback distance be less than four feet.
      (3)   The grade around the perimeter of the structure, measured at a
distance of 20 feet from the structure, shall be above the BFE. However, if
site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be obtained, the Building
Inspector may waive the 20-foot minimum setback distance if a state registered
professional engineer certifies that an alternative method to protect the
building from damages due to hydrostatic pressures have been met. A detailed
soils analysis and structural design proving that a shorter setback distance
will keep the structure reasonably safe from flooding, shall be submitted to
the village for review. In no case shall the setback distance be less than four
feet.
      (4)   The ground around the building shall be compacted fill that meets
all requirements of this division (B) and is at least five feet thick under the
basement floor slab. Nothing in this division (B) shall be interpreted to
require the removal or replacement of fill that was placed as part of a LOMR-F,
if the fill consists of material, including soils of similar classification and
degree permeability, such as those classified as CH, CL, SC or ML according to
ASTM standard D-2487, Classification of Soils for Engineering Purposes.
      (5)   The fill material must be homogeneous (i.e., all of one material)
and isotropic (i.e., having the same engineering properties) and in the same
direction.
      (6)   All fill material and compaction shall be designed, certified and
inspected by a state registered professional engineer, as warranted by the site
conditions.
      (7)   The basement floor shall be at an elevation that is no more than
five feet below the BFE.
      (8)   There shall be a granular drainage layer beneath the floor slab,
and minimum of one-fourth horsepower sump pump with a backup power supply shall
be provided to remove seepage flow. The pump shall be rated at four times the
estimated seepage rate and shall discharge above the BFE and away from the
building in order to prevent flooding of the basement or uplift of the floor
under the effect of the seepage pressure.
      (9)   The drainage system shall be equipped with a positive means of
preventing backflow.
      (10)   All foundation elements shall be designed to withstand hydrostatic
pressure in accordance with accepted engineering practices.
      (11)   If the applicant is unable to meet all of the requirements set
forth in the preceding paragraphs of this division (B), the Building Inspector
may allow the construction of a basement below the BFE only if the applicant
demonstrates that the proposed fill and structure meet the guidelines and
requirements set forth in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01 and are reasonably safe
from flooding. In order to demonstrate that the proposed structure is
reasonably safe from flooding, the applicant shall submit a detailed
engineering analysis of the proposed fill and foundation wall. The engineered
basement study shall be completed in accordance with the latest edition of FEMA
Technical Bulletin 10-01, with the analysis of the fill being prepared by a
state registered professional engineer.
      (12)   In order to provide the required compensatory storage on site, in
no case shall the depth of excavation in the front and side yards of the lot
exceed 18 inches, as measured from the previously existing natural grade. The
rear yard shall be permitted to have a greater depth of excavation, if
necessary. All such excavation shall be constructed to drain freely and openly
to the watercourse or storm sewer system. The use of mechanical means to drain
the compensatory storage area will not be permitted.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
DESIGNATED FLOODWAYS; OCCUPATION AND USE
§ 156.40 GENERALLY.
   This section applies to proposed development, redevelopment, site
modification or building modification within a designated floodway. The
designated floodway for Addison Creek shall be as delineated on the designated
floodway maps designated by IDNR/OWR, according to and referenced in §
156.02. Only those uses and structures will be permitted which meet the
criteria in this section. All floodway modifications shall be the minimum
necessary to accomplish the purpose of the project. The development shall also
meet the requirements of §§
156.70 through
156.73.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.41 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by
state law shall commence any development in a floodway without first obtaining
a development permit from the Building Inspector and IDNR/OWR.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form provided
by the Building Inspector. The application shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Site location (including legal description) of the property, drawn
to scale, on the designated floodway map, indicating whether it is proposed to
be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
      (3)   Name of stream or body of water affected;
      (4)   Description of proposed activity;
      (5)   Statement of purpose of proposed activity;
      (6)   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
      (7)   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant;
      (8)   Signature of the applicant or the applicant’s agent;
      (9)   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other
authorized officer shall sign the application form;
      (10)   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form;
      (11)   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign the
name of the trustee by him or her as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit
shall be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust
by name and address and defining the respective interests therein;
      (12)   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as
a minimum:
         (a)   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
         (b)   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or NGVD
or North American Vertical Datum, adjacent property lines and ownership,
drainage and flood control easements, location of any channels and any existing
or future access roads, distance between proposed activity and navigation
channel (when the proposed construction is near a commercially navigable body
of water), designated floodway limit, floodplain limit, specifications and
dimensions of any proposed channel modifications, location and orientation of
cross-sections, north arrow and a graphic or numerical scale;
         (c)   Cross-section views of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water
elevation, ten-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical);
         (d)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas.
This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading activities and
the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be implemented to
mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a description of final
stabilization and revegetation measures, and the identification of a
responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance; and
         (e)   A copy of the designated floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the designated floodway location.
      (13)   Any and all other federal, state and local permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development;
      (14)   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of §
156.42 of this chapter;
      (15)   If the designated floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until IDNR/OWR has indicated
conditional approval of the designated floodway map change. No structures may
be built until a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA;
      (16)   The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings
of the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and existing
ground elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed
excavation or filling, and floodplain and floodway limits; sealed by a
registered professional engineer, licensed architect or registered land
surveyor; the location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §§
156.70 through
156.73 of this chapter; and
      (17)   If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
         (a)   A discussion of the purpose of and need for the proposed work;
         (b)   A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative locations
or methods (see §
156.42(C)(9)(a) of this chapter) to accomplish the purpose of the proposed
work;
         (c)   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each
feasible alternative identified in §
156.42(C)(9)(a) of this chapter would have on the physical and biological
conditions of the body of water affected; and
         (d)   An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project, considering
cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state and local permits and approvals
that may be required for this type of activity.
      (1)   The Building Inspector shall not issue the development permit
unless all required federal and state permits have been obtained.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer, under the employ or contract of
the village shall review and approve applications reviewed under this section.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.42 PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES; LIST OF APPROPRIATE USES.
   (A)   (1)   The only development in a floodway which will be allowed are
appropriate uses, which will not cause a rise in the base flood elevation, and
which will not create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood
heights or velocity or be a threat to public health and safety and welfare or
impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or
channel, or permanently impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat.
Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as
called for in this chapter. Only those appropriate uses listed in 17 Ill.
Admin. Code Part 3708 will be allowed.
      (2)   The approved appropriate uses are as follows:
         (a)   Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or
private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion or
water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife;
         (b)   Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring
access to, the water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities,
and facilities and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial
shipping and other functionally water dependent uses;
         (c)   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls;
         (d)   Underground and overhead utilities;
         (e)   Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail
systems, including any related fencing (at least 50% open when viewed from any
one direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and including
open air pavilions and toilet facilities (four-stall maximum) that will not
block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage;
         (f)   Detached garages, storage sheds or other non-habitable accessory
structures that will not block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage;
         (g)   Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and
taxiways and any modification thereto;
         (h)   Parking lots built at or below existing grade where either:
            1.   The depth of flooding at the 100-year frequency flood event
will not exceed one foot; or
            2.   The applicant of a short-term recreational use facility
parking lot, formally agrees to restrict access during overbank flooding events
and accepts liability for all damage caused by vehicular access during all
overbank flooding events.
         (i)   Designated floodway regrading, without fill, to create a
positive non-erosive slope toward a watercourse;
         (j)   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including the construction of water-tight window wells, elevating
structures or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet away from the exterior wall of the existing structure,
and, which are not considered substantial improvements to the structure;
         (k)   The replacement, reconstruction or repair of a damaged building;
provided that, the outside dimensions are not increased, and if the building
was damaged to 50% or more of the market value before the damage occurred, the
building will be protected from flooding to the flood protection elevation; and
         (l)   Modifications to an existing building that would not increase
the enclosed floor area of the building below the 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and which will not block flood flows including but not limited to,
fireplaces, bay windows, decks, patios and second-story additions. If the
building is improved to 50% or more of the market value before the modification
occurred (i.e., a substantial improvement), the building will be protected from
flooding to the flood protection elevation.
   (B)   Appropriate uses do not include the construction or placement of any
new structures, fill, building additions, buildings on stilts, excavation or
channel modifications done to accommodate otherwise non-appropriate uses in the
floodway, fencing (including landscaping or planting designed to act as a
fence) and storage of materials, except as specifically defined above as an
appropriate use.
   (C)   Within the designated floodway as identified on the floodway maps
designated by IDNR/OWR, the construction of an appropriate use, will be
considered permissible; provided that, the proposed project meets the following
engineering and mitigation criteria and is so stated in writing with supporting
plans, calculations and data by a registered professional engineer; and,
provided that, any structure meets the protection requirements of §§
156.70 through
156.73 of this chapter:
      (1)   Preservation of flood conveyance, so as not to increase flood
stages upstream. For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings,
on-stream structures or dams, all effective designated floodway conveyance lost
due to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency flood. In calculating effective designated floodway
conveyance, the following factors shall be taken into consideration.
         (a)   Designated floodway conveyance, “K” = (1.486/n)(AR2/3) where “n”
is Manning’s roughness factor, “A” is the effective flow area of the cross-
section, and “R” is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter. (See Open
Channel Hydraulics, Ven Te Chow, 1959, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York.)
         (b)   The same Manning’s “n” value shall be used for both existing and
proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a federal,
state or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a non-vegetative
land cover.
         (c)   Transition sections shall be provided and used in calculations
of effective designated floodway conveyance. The following expansion and
contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant’s engineer can prove to
IDNR/OWR through engineering calculations or model tests that more abrupt
transitions may be used with the same efficiency.
            1.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot horizontal for every four feet of the flooded stream’s length.
            2.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section,
the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot
horizontal for every one foot of the flooded stream’s length.
            3.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a
minimum of one-foot vertical transition for every ten feet of stream length
shall be used.
            4.   Transition sections shall be provided between cross-sections
with rapid expansions and contractions and when meeting the designated floodway
delineation on adjacent properties.
            5.   All cross-sections used in the calculations shall be located
perpendicular to flood flows.
      (2)   Preservation of floodway storage so as not to increase downstream
flooding.
         (a)   Compensatory storage shall be provided for any designated
floodway storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or
structures placed and the impact of any related flood control projects.
         (b)   Compensatory storage for fill or structures shall be equal to at
least one and one-half times the volume of floodplain storage lost.
         (c)   Artificially created storage lost due to a reduction in head
loss behind a bridge shall not be required to be replaced.
         (d)   The compensatory designated floodway storage shall be placed
between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year flood
elevation. All designated floodway storage lost below the existing ten-year
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed ten-year flood elevation.
All designated floodway storage lost above the existing ten-year flood
elevation shall be replaced above the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All
such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the
watercourse.
         (e)   If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the location
of the proposed construction, the applicant’s engineer shall demonstrate to
IDNR/OWR through a determination of flood discharges and water surface
elevations that the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent.
         (f)   There shall be no reduction in floodway surface area as a result
of a floodway modification, unless the modification is necessary to reduce
flooding at existing structure.
      (3)   Preservation of floodway velocities so as not to increase stream
erosion or flood heights.
         (a)   For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts or on-
stream structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in the
average channel or designated floodway velocities or stage for all flood events
up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
         (b)   In the case of bridges or culverts or on-stream structures built
for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal or flood flows,
velocities may be increased at the structure site if scour, erosion and
sedimentation will be avoided by the use of rip-rap or other design measures.
      (4)   Construction of new bridges or culvert crossings and roadway
approaches.
         (a)   The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of
upstream flood stages greater than 0.1 foot when compared to the existing
conditions for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency
event; or the upstream flood stage increases will be contained within the
channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or flood walls or
within recorded flood easements.
         (b)   If the proposed construction will increase upstream flood stages
greater than 0.1 foot, the developer must contact IDNR/OWR to obtain a permit
for a dam or waiver.
            1.   The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be
calculated using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for
tailwater conditions for the flood study specified in §
156.05 of this chapter. Culverts must be analyzed using the U.S. DOT, FHWA
Hydraulic Chart for the Selection of Highway Culverts. Bridges must be analyzed
using the U.S. DOT/Federal Highway Administration Hydraulics of Bridge
Waterways calculation procedures.
            2.   Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per division (C)
(2) above.
            3.   Velocity increases must be mitigated per division (C)(3)
above.
            4.   If the crossing is proposed over a public water that is used
for recreational or commercial navigation, an IDNR/OWR permit must be received.
            5.   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the bridge
showing the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by this
section.
            6.   All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall be
designed per division (C)(8) below.
      (5)   Reconstruction or modification of existing bridges, culverts and
approach roads.
         (a)   The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than 0.1 foot increase in
backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood frequencies up to and
including the 100-year event, if the existing structure is not a source of
flood damage.
         (b)   If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a
source of flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream floodplain,
the applicant’s engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
         (c)   The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing is
a source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in
accordance with 17 Ill. Admin. Code part 3708 (Floodway Construction in
Northeastern Illinois) and submitted to IDNR/OWR for review and concurrence
before a permit is issued.
      (6)   On-stream structures built for the purpose of backing up water.
         (a)   Any increase in upstream flood stages greater than 0.0 foot when
compared to the existing conditions, for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency event shall be contained within the channel banks (or
within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as within the
design protection grade of existing levees or flood walls or within recorded
flood easements.
         (b)   A permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must be
obtained from IDNR/OWR for any structure built for the purpose of backing up
water in the stream during normal or flood flow.
         (c)   All dams and impoundment structures, as defined in §
156.02, shall meet the permitting requirements of 17 Ill. Admin. Code part 3702
(Construction and Maintenance of Dams). If the proposed activity involves a
modification of the channel or floodway to accommodate an impoundment, it shall
be demonstrated that:
            1.   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest by
providing flood control, public recreation or regional storm water detention;
            2.   The impoundment will not prevent the migration of indigenous
fish species, which require access to upstream areas as part of their life
cycle, such as for spawning;
            3.   The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded water
quality or habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual bank
slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures and a pre-sedimentation basin;
            4.   A non-point source control plan has been implemented in the
upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals, and other pollutants.
If there is more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the
municipality in which the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with
upstream municipalities to ensure comprehensive watershed control; and
            5.   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
subchapter.
      (7)   Floodproofing of existing habitable, residential and commercial
structures.
         (a)   If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of the
existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no further than ten feet from the outside of the building.
         (b)   Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be required
for floodproofing activities.
      (8)   Excavation in the floodway.
         (a)   When excavation is proposed in the design of bridges and culvert
openings, including the modifications to and replacement of existing bridge and
culvert structures, or to compensate for lost conveyance or other appropriate
uses, transition sections shall be provided for the excavation.
         (b)   The following expansion and contraction ratios shall be used
unless an applicant’s engineer can prove to IDNR/OWR through engineering
calculations or model tests that more abrupt transitions may be used with the
same efficiency.
            1.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot horizontal for every four feet of the flooded stream’s length.
            2.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section,
the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot
horizontal for every one foot of the flooded stream’s length.
            3.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a
minimum of one foot vertical transition for every ten feet of stream length
shall be used.
            4.   Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream and
downstream of the transition sections.
      (9)   Channel modification. If the proposed activity involves a channel
modification, it shall be demonstrated that:
         (a)   There are no practicable alternatives to the activity which
would accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the
body of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank
stabilization, floodproofing of existing structures, removal of structures from
the floodplain, clearing the channel, high flow channel or the establishment of
a stream side buffer strip or green belt. Channel modification is acceptable if
the purpose is to restore natural conditions and improve water quality and fish
and wildlife habitat;
         (b)   Water quality, habitat and other natural functions would be
significantly improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may
be destroyed, or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent
degree of natural resource values;
         (c)   The activity has been planned and designed and will be
constructed in a way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural
conditions of the body of water affected, consistent with the following
criteria.
            1.   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall
match as closely as possible those of the existing channel in length, cross-
section, slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously
modified, restoration of more natural physical conditions should be
incorporated into channel modification design, where practical.
            2.   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at both
the upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they will
prevent erosion.
            3.   One-sided construction of a channel shall be used when
feasible. Removal of streamside (riparian) vegetation should be limited to one
side of the channel, where possible, to preserve the shading and stabilization
effects of the vegetation.
            4.   Clearing of stabilizing vegetation shall be limited to that
which is essential for construction of the channel.
            5.   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no
steeper than three to one (3:1) horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable.
Native vegetation and gradual side slopes are the preferred methods for bank
stabilization. Where high velocities or sharp bends necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or rip-rap are preferred approaches. Artificial materials such as
concrete, gabions or construction rubble should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives.
            6.   All disturbed areas associated with the modification shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of
construction. Erosion blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to
stabilize disturbed channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative
cover.
            7.   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom diversity
such as deep pools, riffles and other similar features, the features shall be
provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and flow
characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established, where
appropriate.
            8.   A sediment basin shall be installed at the downstream end of
the modification to reduce sedimentation and degradation of downstream water
quality.
            9.   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry and all
items of construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to
diversion of water into the new channel.
            10.   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the
channel enters or leaves the project site for any frequency flood unless
necessitated by a public flood control project or unless such an increase is
justified as part of a habitat improvement or erosion control project.
            11.   Unless the modification is for a public flood control
project, there shall be no reduction in the volume of flood water storage
outside the floodway as a result of the modification.
         (d)   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
subchapter.
      (10)   Seeding and stabilization plan. For all activities located in a
floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the applicant.
      (11)   Soil erosion and sedimentation measures. For all activities in the
floodway, including grading, filling and excavation, in which there is
potential for erosion of exposed soil, soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be employed consistent with the following criteria.
         (a)   The construction area shall be minimized to preserve the maximum
vegetation possible. Construction shall be scheduled to minimize the time soil
is exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural vegetation be
destroyed, removed or disturbed more than 15 days prior to the initiation of
improvements.
         (b)   Temporary and/or permanent soil stabilization shall be applied
to denuded areas as soon as possible. As a minimum, soil stabilization shall be
provided within 15 days after final grade is reached on any portion of the
site, and within 15 days to denuded areas which may not be at final grade but
will remain undisturbed for longer than 60 days.
         (c)   Sedimentation control measures shall be installed before any
significant grading or filling is initiated on the site to prevent the movement
of eroded sediments off site or into the channel. Potential sediment control
devices include filter fences, straw bale fences, check dams, diversion ditches
and sediment traps and basins.
         (d)   A vegetated buffer strip of at least 25 feet in width shall be
preserved and/or re-established, where possible, along existing channels. (See
division (C)(15) below.) Construction vehicle use of channels shall be
minimized. Temporary stream crossings shall be constructed, where necessary, to
minimize erosion. Necessary construction in or along channels shall be
restabilized immediately.
         (e)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be
designed and implemented consistent with “Procedures and Standards for Urban
Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control in Illinois” (1988) also known as the
“Green Book” and “The Illinois Urban Manual” (NRCS, 1995).
      (12)   Public flood control projects. For public flood control projects,
the permitting requirements of this section will be considered met if the
applicant can demonstrate to IDNR/OWR through hydraulic and hydrologic
calculations that the proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively
result in increased flood heights outside the project right-of-way or easements
for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
      (13)   General criteria for analysis of flood elevations.
         (a)   The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the designated
floodway study, referenced in §
156.05, must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If the study data
appears to be in error or conditions have changed, IDNR/OWR shall be contacted
for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base conditions data to use.
         (b)   If the 100-year designated floodway elevation at the site of the
proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet:
            1.   The requirements of this section for the 100-year frequency
flood elevations of the designated floodway conditions; and
            2.   Conditions with the receiving stream at normal water
elevations.
         (c)   If the applicant learns from IDNR/OWR, local governments or a
private owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to
be removed, reconstructed, modified or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
      (14)   Conditional letter of map revision.
         (a)   If the appropriate use would result in a change in the
designated floodway location or the 100-year frequency flood elevation, the
applicant shall submit to IDNR/OWR and FEMA all information, calculations and
documents necessary to be issued a conditional designated floodway map revision
and receive from IDNR/OWR a conditional concurrence of the designated floodway
change before a permit is issued.
         (b)   The final designated floodway map will not be changed by FEMA
until as-built plans or record drawings of initial filling, grading, dredging
or excavating activities are submitted and accepted by FEMA and IDNR/OWR.
         (c)   In the case of non-government projects, the municipality in
incorporated areas and the county in unincorporated areas shall concur with the
proposed conditional designated floodway map revision before IDNR/OWR approval
can be given.
         (d)   No filling, grading, dredging or excavating shall take place
until a conditional approval is issued.
         (e)   After initial filling, grading, dredging or excavating, no
activities shall take place until a final letter of map revision (LOMR) is
issued by FEMA with concurrence from IDNR/OWR.
      (15)   Professional engineer’s supervision. All engineering analyses
shall be performed by or under the supervision of a registered professional
engineer.
      (16)   Construction within 25 feet. For all activities in the floodway
involving construction within 25 feet of the channel, the following criteria
shall be met.
         (a)   A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within at
least 25 feet of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
         (b)   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during the
construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
      (17)   Certain construction. After receipt of conditional approval of the
designated floodway change and issuance of a permit and a conditional letter of
map revision, construction as necessary to change the floodway designation may
proceed, but no buildings or structures or other construction that is not an
appropriate use may be placed in that area until the designated floodway map is
changed and a final letter of map revision is received. The designated floodway
map will be revised upon acceptance and concurrence by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of the
“as-built” plans.
   (D)   For those projects listed below located in a designated floodway, the
following criteria shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for their review and
concurrence and/or permit prior to the issuance of a permit by a community or
county delegated state permitting authority in the floodway:
      (1)   An engineer’s analysis of the flood profile due to a proposed
bridge pursuant to division (C)(4) above;
      (2)   An engineer’s determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, pursuant to division (C)(5) above;
      (3)   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
storage pursuant to divisions (C)(1), (C)(2) and (C)(8);
      (4)   The construction of any IDNR/OWR projects, dams (as defined in §
156.02 of this chapter) and all other state, federal or local units of
government projects, including projects of the municipality or county;
      (5)   An engineer’s determination that a proposed bridge affected by
backwater from a downstream receiving stream may be built with a smaller
opening;
      (6)   Projects which revise or establish the floodway and/or flood
profiles; and
      (7)   Projects in public bodies of water.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a
development permit for a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless
the applicant first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is
not required from IDNR/OWR, issued pursuant to ILCS Ch. 615, Act 5, §§ 5 et
seq.
      (2)   No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if IDNR/OWR has delegated
this responsibility to the village.
   (F)   (1)   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of
a dam, as defined in §
156.02, per 17 Ill. Admin. Code part 3702 (Rules for Construction of Dams),
shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of construction of a dam.
      (2)   If the Building Inspector finds a dam that does not have an IDNR/
OWR permit, the Building Inspector shall immediately notify the IDNR/OWR
Bartlett office.
      (3)   If the Building Inspector finds a dam which is believed to be in
unsafe condition, the Building Inspector shall immediately notify the owner of
the dam, the IDNR/OWR Bartlett office, and the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency (IEMA).
   (G)   The following activities may be permitted without a registered
professional engineer’s review. The activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this chapter, including the mitigation requirements.
      (1)   (a)   Underground and overhead utilities that:
            1.   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations;
            2.   Do not require the placement of above ground structures in the
floodway; or
            3.   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the
pipe or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet below the existing
streambed.
         (b)   Overhead utility lines shall be constructed above the estimated
100-year frequency flood elevation or attached above the low chord of an
existing bridge (with the permission of the bridge owner). No supporting towers
shall be placed in the watercourse and shall be designed so as to not catch
debris.
         (c)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         (d)   A utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution as defined by the Environmental Protection Act, ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5
(1992 State Bar Edition), shall be provided with shut-off valves on each side
of the body of water to be crossed.
         (e)   All State Commerce Commission, National Electric Safety Codes
and federal requirements for clearance must be met.
      (2)   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls that:
         (a)   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope;
         (b)   Do not result in an increase in ground elevation; and
         (c)   Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall
location.
      (3)   Construction of sidewalks, athletic fields (excluding fences),
properly anchored playground equipment and patios at grade.
      (4)   (a)   Construction of shoreline and streambank protection that:
            1.   Does not exceed 1,000 feet in length;
            2.   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of bank;
and
            3.   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross-sectional
area of the stream channel or bank of the lake.
         (b)   Stabilization utilizing native vegetation and gradual side
slopes are the preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems.
Where high channel velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use
of alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or rip-rap are preferred materials. Artificial materials such as concrete,
construction rubble and gabions should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives.
      (5)   Temporary stream crossings in which:
         (a)   The approach roads will be one-half foot or less above natural
grade;
         (b)   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing up
the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile or
outfall invert;
         (c)   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least two
feet below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be non-
erosive material, such as rip-rap or gravel;
         (d)   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise
stabilized as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of
construction; and
         (e)   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within
one year after authorization.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
SFHA AREAS WHERE FLOODWAYS NOT IDENTIFIED; OCCUPATION AND USE
§ 156.55 GENERALLY.
   In SFHA or floodplains, (including AE, AH, AO and unnumbered A Zones) where
no floodways have been identified and no base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevations have been established by FEMA and draining more than a square mile,
no development shall be permitted unless the cumulative effect of the
proposals, when combined with all other existing and anticipated uses and
structures, shall not significantly impede or increase the flow and passage of
the flood waters nor significantly increase the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.56 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body, not exempted by
state law, shall commence any development in a SFHA or floodplain without first
obtaining a development permit from the Village Building Department.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form provided
by the Village Building Department.
      (1)   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site, drawn
to scale showing property line dimensions; and existing grade elevations and
all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling, sealed by a licensed
engineer, architect or surveyor; the location and dimensions of all buildings
and additions to buildings; and the elevations of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §§
156.70 through
156.73 of this chapter.
      (2)   The application for a development permit shall also include the
following information:
         (a)   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose and
intended use;
         (b)   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway maps, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
         (c)   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity; and
         (d)   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include
as a minimum:
            1.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
            2.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or
NGVD, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements, distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the
proposed construction is in or near a commercially navigable body of water),
floodplain limit, location and orientation of cross-sections, north arrow and a
graphical or numerical scale;
            3.   Cross-section views of the project perpendicular to the flow
of flood water and engineering study reach showing existing and proposed
conditions including principal dimensions of the work as shown in plan view,
existing and proposed elevations, normal water elevation, ten-year frequency
flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood elevation and graphical or numerical
scales (horizontal and vertical); and
            4.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
      (3)   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of §
156.57.
      (4)   Any and all other federal, state and local permits or approvals
that may be required for this type of development.
   (C)   Based on the best available existing data according to the State Water
Survey’s Floodplain Information Repository, the Building Inspector shall
compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation.
      (1)   Should no elevation information exist for the site, the developer’s
engineer shall calculate the elevation according to §
156.05 of this chapter.
      (2)   Any development located on land that can be shown to have been
higher than the base flood elevation of the current flood insurance rate map
identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   The Building Inspector shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate
map identification.
   (D)   The Building Inspector shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state and local permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
Building Inspector shall not issue the development permit unless all required
federal, state and local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.57 PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES.
   (A)   No development in the SFHA, where a floodway has not been determined
shall create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or
velocity or threat to public health, safety and welfare or impair the natural
hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel, or impair
existing water quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be
minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this chapter.
   (B)   Within all riverine SFHAs where the floodway has not been determined,
the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   The developer shall have a registered professional engineer state
in writing and show through supporting plans, calculations and data that the
project meets the engineering requirements of §
156.42(C)(1) through (C)(9) of this chapter for the entire floodplain as
calculated under the provisions of §
156.05(D) of this chapter.
         (a)   As an alternative, the developer should have an engineering
study performed to determine a floodway and submit that engineering study to
IDNR/OWR for acceptance as a designated floodway.
         (b)   Upon acceptance of the floodway by IDNR/OWR, the developer shall
then demonstrate that the project meets the requirements of §§
156.40 through
156.42 of this chapter for the designated floodway. The floodway shall be
defined according to the definition in §
156.02 of this chapter.
      (2)   A development permit shall not be issued unless the applicant first
obtains a permit from IDNR/OWR or written documentation that a permit is not
required from IDNR/OWR.
      (3)   No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if IDNR/OWR has delegated
permit responsibility to the village per 17 Ill. Admin. Code part 3708 for
designated floodways.
      (4)   Permits for Dams
         (a)   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of
a dam, as defined in §
156.02, per 17 Ill. Admin. Code part 3702 (Rules for Construction of Dams),
shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of construction of a dam.
         (b)   If the Building Inspector finds a dam that does not have an
IDNR/OWR permit, the Building Inspector shall immediately notify the IDNR/OWR
Bartlett office.
         (c)   If the Building Inspector finds a dam which is believed to be in
unsafe condition, the Building Inspector shall immediately notify the owner of
the dam, the IDNR/OWR Bartlett office and the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency (IEMA).
   (C)   The following activities may be permitted without a registered
professional engineer’s review or calculation of a base flood elevation and
designated floodway. The activities shall still meet the other requirements of
this chapter:
      (1)   (a)   Underground and overhead utilities that:
            1.   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations;
            2.   Do not require the placement of above ground structures in the
floodway; or
            3.   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the
pipe or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet below the existing
streambed.
         (b)   Overhead utility lines shall be constructed above the estimated
100-year frequency flood elevation or attached above the low chord of an
existing bridge (with the permission of the bridge owner). No supporting towers
shall be placed in the watercourse and shall be designed so as to not catch
debris.
         (c)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation.
         (d)   A utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution as defined by the Environmental Protection Act, ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5
(1992 State Bar Edition), shall be provided with shut-off valves on each side
of the body of water to be crossed.
         (g)   All State Commerce Commission, National Electric Safety Codes
and federal requirements for clearance must be met.
      (2)   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls that:
         (a)   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope;
         (b)   Do not result in an increase in ground elevation; and
         (c)   Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall
location.
      (3)   (a)   Construction of shoreline and streambank protection that:
            1.   Does not exceed 1,000 feet in length;
            2.   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of bank;
and
            3.   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross-sectional
area of the stream channel by more than 10%.
         (b)   Stabilization utilizing native vegetation and gradual side
slopes are the preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems.
Where high channel velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use
of alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or rip-rap are preferred materials. Artificial materials such as concrete,
construction rubble and gabions should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives.
      (4)   Temporary stream crossings in which:
         (a)   The approach roads will be one-half foot or less above natural
grade;
         (b)   The crossings will allow stream flow to pass without backing up
the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile or
outfall invert;
         (c)   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least two
feet below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be non-
erosive material, such as rip-rap or gravel;
         (d)   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise
stabilized as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of
construction; and
         (e)   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within
one year after authorization.
      (5)   The construction of light poles, sign posts and similar structures;
      (6)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar surfaces which are built at grade;
      (7)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions and carports built at or below existing
grade that would not obstruct the flow of flood waters;
      (8)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding 70
square feet in size, nor ten feet in any one dimension (e.g., animal shelters
and tool sheds);
      (9)   The construction of additions to existing Building Inspector which
are located on the upstream or downstream side of the existing building, and
which do extend beyond the sides of the existing building that are parallel to
the flow of flood waters; and
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging of a stream channel where:
         (a)   The affected length of stream is less than 1,000 feet;
         (b)   The work is confined to reestablishing flows in natural stream
channels; or
         (c)   The cross-sectional area of the dredged channel conforms to that
of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
   (D)   The flood carrying capacity within any altered or relocated
watercourse shall be maintained.
   (E)   Compensatory storage.
      (1)   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
      (2)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-half
times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
      (3)   In the case of streams and watercourses, the excavation shall be
made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
      (4)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing ten-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing ten-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All excavations shall be
constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 156.70 GENERALLY.
   In addition to the requirements found in §§
156.25 through
156.28,
156.40 through
156.42 and
156.55 through
156.57 for development in flood fringes, designated floodways and SFHA or
floodplains where no floodways have been identified (Zones A, AO, AH, AE, A1-
A30, A99, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M, E or D), the requirements of this subchapter
shall be met.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.71 PUBLIC HEALTH STANDARDS.
   (A)   No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants or other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood
protection elevation (FPE).
   (B)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric shall
be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
   (C)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (D)   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer lines
and on-site waste disposal systems may be permitted providing all manholes or
other above ground openings located below the FPE are water-tight.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.72 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities in writing
30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of
the watercourse.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.73 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   All buildings located within a 100-year floodplain also known as
a SFHA, and all buildings located outside the 100-year floodplain but within
the 500-year floodplain, shall be protected from flood damage below the flood
protection elevation. This building protection criteria applies to the
following situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000 or 70 square feet;
         (b)   Substantial improvement to an existing building, as defined in §
156.02 of this chapter, including an increase to the first floor area by more
than 20%. This alteration shall be figured cumulatively beginning with any
alteration which has taken place subsequent to 4-1-1990;
         (c)   Substantial damage to an existing building, as defined in §
156.02. This alteration shall be figured cumulatively beginning with any
alteration which has taken place subsequent to 4-1-1990;
         (d)   Repetitive loss to an existing building, as defined in §
156.02;
         (e)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This building protection requirements
does not apply to returning a mobile home to the same site it lawfully occupied
before it was removed to avoid flood damage; and
         (f)   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180 days per
year.
      (2)   This building protection requirement may be met by one of the
following methods.
   (B)   A residential or non-residential building, when allowed, may be
constructed on permanent land fill in accordance with the following.
      (1)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
      (2)   Fill requirements.
         (a)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of
the building before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         (b)   The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection
elevation. However, the ten-foot minimum may be waived if a structural engineer
certifies an alternative method to protect the building from damages due to
hydrostatic pressures.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour.
         (d)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow or surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
   (C)   A residential or non-residential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following.
      (1)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space,
stilts, piles, walls or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base flood or
100-year frequency flood, shall be no more than one foot above existing grade
and consists of a minimum of two openings. The openings must have a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation.
      (2)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and aligned
in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize exposure
to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating debris.
      (3)   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be constructed
of materials resistant to flood damage.
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) and all electrical,
heating, ventilating, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility
meters shall be located at or above the flood protection elevation.
         (b)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other waterproofed service facilities may be located
below the flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The areas below the flood protection elevation may only be used for
the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement and not later modified or occupied as habitable space.
      (5)   Manufactured homes, and travel trailers to be installed on a site
for more than 180 days, shall be elevated to or above the flood protection
elevation; and, shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral
movement by being tied down in accordance with the Rules and Regulations for
the Illinois Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Admin. Code
part 870. In addition, all manufactured homes shall meet the following
elevation requirements:
         (a)   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved:
            1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage from a flood, the top of
the lowest floor shall be elevated to or above the flood protection elevation.
         (b)   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, the manufactured
home shall be elevated so that either the top of the lowest floor is above the
base flood elevation or the chassis is at least 36 inches in height above grade
and supported by reinforced piers or other foundations of equivalent strength,
whichever is less.
      (6)   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers shall be required to meet
the elevation and anchoring requirements of division (C)(5) above unless:
         (a)   They are on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; and
         (b)   They are fully licensed, ready for highway use and used only for
recreation, camping, travel or seasonal use rather than as a permanent
dwelling. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utility and service devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
   (D)   Only a non-residential building may be structurally dry floodproofed
(in lieu of elevation); provided that:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the building has been structurally dry floodproofed below the flood protection
elevation, the structure and attendant utility facilities are water-tight and
capable of resisting the effects of the base flood or 100-year frequency flood;
      (2)   The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy and impacts from debris or ice; and
      (3)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity (levees, berms, floodwalls and
similar works are not considered floodproofing for the purpose of this
section).
   (E)   A building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation; provided that, the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade;
      (3)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade;
      (4)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four feet
at any point;
      (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove flood
waters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of
time after a flood event;
      (6)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
      (7)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (F)   Critical facilities shall be protected to the 500-year flood
elevation. In addition, all ingress and egress from any critical facility must
be protected to the 500-year flood elevation.
   (G)   Tool sheds, detached garages and other minor accessory structures on
an existing single-family platted lot may be constructed with the lowest floor
below the flood protection elevation in accordance with the following.
      (1)   The building is not used for human habitation.
      (2)   All areas below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be constructed with waterproof material. Structures located in
a designated floodway shall be constructed and placed on a building site so as
not to block the flow of flood waters and shall also meet the appropriate use
criteria of §§
156.40 through
156.42. In addition, all other requirements of §§
156.25 through
156.28,
156.40 through
156.42 and
156.55 through
156.57 of this chapter must be met.
      (3)   The structure shall be anchored to prevent flotation.
      (4)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
      (5)   The building shall be valued at less than $10,000 and be less than
500 square feet in floor size.
      (6)   The building shall be used only for the storage of vehicles or
tools and may not contain other rooms, workshops, greenhouses or similar uses.
      (7)   The building shall meet the permanent opening criteria of division
(C)(1) above.
   (H)   Existing buildings located within a designated floodway shall also
meet the more restrictive appropriate use standards included in §§
156.40 through
156.42 of this chapter. Non-conforming structures located in a designated
floodway may remain in use and may only be enlarged, replaced or structurally
altered in accordance with §
156.42 of this chapter. A non-conforming structure damaged by flood, fire, wind
or other natural or human-made disaster may be restored unless the damage
exceeds 50% of its market value before it was damaged, in which case it shall
conform to this chapter.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or
conditions of a variance resolution shall be deemed to be a violation of this
chapter. Upon due investigation, the Building Inspector may determine that a
violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exist. The Building
Inspector shall notify the owner in writing of the violation.
      (2)   If the owner fails, after ten days’ notice, to correct the
violation:
         (a)   The village may make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make another order as the
Court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter;
         (b)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $50, or more than $1,000, for each offense;
         (c)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
         (d)   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title to
the property.
   (B)   (1)   The Building Inspector shall inform the owner that any violation
is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and, therefore, may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (2)   The Building Inspector is authorized to issue an order requiring
the suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in
writing, shall indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work
order. The stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit
      (3)   (a)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Board of Appeals. Written notice of the
hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
            1.   The grounds for compliant or reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
            2.   The time and place of the hearing.
         (b)   At the hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Board of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or
revoked.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 5-24-2005)
CHAPTER 157: BLIGHT ELIMINATION PROGRAM
Section
   
157.01   Purpose
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Acquisition of blighted property
§ 157.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the policy of the village to protect and promote the health, safety,
and welfare of the residents of the village by eliminating blight and
deterioration in its neighborhoods and the elimination of such blight and
deterioration and the redevelopment of such properties constitutes a public use
and purpose for which public money may be expended. Accordingly, the Blight
Elimination Program is hereby created to foster land reuse, repurposing and or
redevelopment that benefits the residential community of the village and helps
reduce blight, property devaluation, public nuisances, vandalism, and crime.
(Ord. 22-13, passed 4-26-2022)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLIGHTED PROPERTY. Those residential premises:
      (1)   That because of their physical condition or use are regarded as a
public nuisance;
      (2)   That because of their physical condition are considered an
attractive nuisance to children by reason of structures and appurtenances
thereon or therein, including, but not limited to, abandoned homes, basements,
excavations, or the unsafe condition of any structures thereon;
      (3)   That are dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin infested, or are
lacking in the facilities and equipment required by the Village Code to be fit
for human occupation;
      (4)   That are designated by the Village Building Inspector as being
unfit for human habitation;
      (5)   That are a fire hazard or are otherwise dangerous to the safety of
persons or property;
      (6)   That are no longer connected to electrical, water, gas, sewer or
utilities as required by the Village Code so that the property is unfit for
human habitation;
      (7)   That, by reason of neglect, has become a place for the accumulation
of trash and debris and or a haven for rodents and vermin; or
      (8)   That have not been rehabilitated within the time constraints placed
upon the owner by the appropriate code enforcement agency.
(Ord. 22-13, passed 4-26-2022)
§ 157.03 ACQUISITION OF BLIGHTED PROPERTY.
   The village shall have the authority to acquire by purchase, gift, bequest,
eminent domain, negotiation or otherwise, blighted property and to hold, raze,
manage, redevelop, including but not limited to, the construction and or
renovation of residential homes on blighted property, and dispose of said
property all in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section and as
otherwise permitted by law. The village shall also have the authority to
acquire real estate adjacent to any blighted property, if, in the reasonable
opinion of the village, the acquisition of such adjacent real estate will
further the redevelopment of the blighted property.
(Ord. 22-13, passed 4-26-2022)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                      Code Section
5, Act 120, § 2.02             30.047
5, Act 120, § 2.03             30.047
5, Act 315, § 3                36.01
10, Act 5, § 1-3               36.01
10, Act 5, § 9-1.4             36.01
10, Act 5, § 9-3               36.01
20, Act 1605, §§ 1 et seq.    135.02
30, Act 225, § 1               30.107
30, Act 235, § 6               30.107
30, Act 235, §6                30.107
35, Act 120, § 2a              112.01
35, Act 200, Art. 31            35.103
50, Act 45                      35.027
50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.     32.12
50, Act 720, § 1               32.06
50, Act 740                     92.02
65, Act 5, § 1-2-1             156.01
65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1           10.99;
                                113.99
65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1.1 et seq. 35.999
65, Act 5, Art. 2.1             70.03
65, Act 5, Art. 3.1             30.012
65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-25         30.005
65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-30         30.006
65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-50         30.070
65, Act 5, § 3.1-25-90         30.070
65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-15         30.071;
                                30.077
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-40         30.107
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-45         30.107
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-50         30.107,
                                35.009
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-55         30.107
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-60         30.107
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-80         30.999
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-85         30.107
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-120        30.071
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-130        30.071
65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-25         30.047
65, Act 5, § 3.1-50-5          30.007
65, Act 5, § 3.1-50-10         30.007;
                                30.033
65, Act 5, §§ 8-3-1 et seq.   35.002
65, Act 5, §§ 8-8-3 et seq.   35.007
65, Act 5, § 8-8-3             35.007
65, Act 5, § 8-8-4             35.007
65, Act 5, § 8-11-1            35.078
65, Act 5, § 8-11-2            35.077,
                                35.081
65, Act 5, § 8-11-22           35.220
65, Act 5, § 11-1-5            132.02
65, Act 5, § 11-12-12          156.01
65, Act 5, § 11-30-2           156.01
65, Act 5, § 11-30-8           156.01
65, Act 5, § 11-31-2           156.01
65, Act 5, § 11-40-1           71.001;
                                75.01
65, Act 5, §§ 74.4-4.2        35.010
72, Act 5, § 28-2              135.01
200, Act 5, § 16-104           35.081
220, Act 5, § 3-105            124.03
225, Act 90, §§ 2 et seq.     113.41
225, Act 325, §§ 1 et seq.    156.02
225, Act 320, § 3              53.22
225, Act 330, §§ 1 et seq.    156.02
225, Act 460                    74.07
225, Act 610, § 9.1            51.30
225, Act 610, § 9.2            51.30
230, Act 10, §§ 1 et seq.     135.02
230, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.     135.02
230, Act 20, §§ 1 et seq.     135.02
230, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.     135.02
230, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.     135.02
                                35.231,
                                111.21;
230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.     111.26;
                                135.01—
                                135.04;
                                135.16
415, Act 5                      156.42;
                                156.57
415, Act 5, § 3.214            71.103
415, Act 5, § 3.220            71.103
415, Act 5, § 3.360            71.103
415, Act 5, § 4                53.22
415, Act 105, § 3              71.103;
                                136.01
415, Act 105, § 4              136.02;
                                136.99
415, Act 105, § 5              136.03;
                                136.99
415, Act 105, § 6              136.04;
                                136.99
                                136.02—
415, Act 105, § 8              136.04;
                                136.07;
                                136.99
415, Act 105, § 9              136.05
415, Act 105, § 10             136.06;
                                136.99
430, Act 30, § 3               71.081
430, Act 65, §§ 0.01—16.3   Ch. 137
605, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.    70.39
625, Act 5, Art. IX             73.01
615, Act 5, §§ 5 et seq.      156.02,
                                156.42
615, Act 5, § 18g              156.01
625, Act 5, § 1-102            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-105            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-106            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-107            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-108            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-111            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-112            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-113            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-116            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-120            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-125            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-126            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-130            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-131            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-132            70.01
625, Act 5, §1-133.1           71.001
625, Act 5, § 1-135            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-136            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-137            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-138            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-139.1          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-140            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-141            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-145.001        70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-146            35.137;
                                70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-147            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-148.2          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-148.3          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-148.6          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-153            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-154            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-155            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-156            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-157            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-158            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-159.1          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-159.2          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-162            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-162.3          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-162.5          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-163            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-164.5          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-166            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-166.1          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-167            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-168            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-168.8          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-169            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-171            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-171.6          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-171.8          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-172            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-174            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-176            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-177            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-178            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-179            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-181            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-182            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-187            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-187.1          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-188            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-193            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-194            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-195            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-196            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-197            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-199            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-200            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-201            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-203            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-205            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-205.1          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-207            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-208            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-209            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-210.01         70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-211            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-211.01         70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-212            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-214            70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-214.8          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-216.5          70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-217            70.01
625, Act 5, § 3-101(d)         70.01
625, Act 5, § 3-609            72.17
625, Act 5, § 3-616            72.17
625, Act 5, § 3-708            10.38
625, Act 5, § 4-201 et seq.    136.01
625, Act 5, § 4-203            76.05,
                                76.06
625, Act 5, § 4-213            76.05,
                                76.06
625, Act 5, § 5-402            35.137
625, Act 5, § 6-101            10.38
625, Act 5, § 6-204            76.05
625, Act 5, § 6-303            10.38
625, Act 5, § 6-306.5          10.33;
                                70.03
                                71.080,
625, Act 5, § 6-500            71.081,
                                71.083
625, Act 5, § 11-203           70.20
625, Act 5, § 11-205           70.21
625, Act 5, § 11-206           70.22
625, Act 5, § 11-208.3         10.33;
                                10.38
625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(b)(1)   70.03
625, Act 5, § 11-209.1         71.045
625, Act 5, § 11-301           70.01;
                                72.17
625, Act 5, § 11-302           70.46
625, Act 5, § 11-305           70.35
625, Act 5, § 11-306           70.03;
                                70.36
625, Act 5, § 11-307           70.36;
                                70.37
625, Act 5, § 11-308           70.38
625, Act 5, § 11-309           70.39
625, Act 5, § 11-310           70.39
625, Act 5, § 11-311           70.41;
                                70.99
625, Act 5, § 11-312           70.42;
                                70.99
625, Act 5, § 11-313           70.43
625, Act 5, § 11-401           76.03
625, Act 5, § 11-402           76.05
625, Act 5, § 11-403           76.04
625, Act 5, § 11-404           76.06
625, Act 5, § 11-406(a)        76.07
625, Act 5, § 11-406(b)        76.07
625, Act 5, § 11-409           76.08
625, Act 5, § 11-501           10.38,
                                71.066
625, Act 5, § 11-501.1         76.03
625, Act 5, § 11-502           10.38
625, Act 5, § 11-503(a)        76.01
625, Act 5, § 11-601           71.001
625, Act 5, § 11-604           71.001
625, Act 5, § 11-605           71.002
625, Act 5, § 11-606(a)        71.004
625, Act 5, § 11-611           71.003
625, Act 5, § 11-701           71.040
625, Act 5, § 11-702           71.041
625, Act 5, § 11-703           71.042
625, Act 5, § 11-704           71.043
625, Act 5, § 11-705           71.044
625, Act 5, § 11-706           71.044
625, Act 5, § 11-707           71.047
625, Act 5, § 11-708           71.046
625, Act 5, § 11-709           71.048
625, Act 5, § 11-710           71.096
625, Act 5, § 11-711           71.106
625, Act 5, § 11-801           71.020
625, Act 5, § 11-802           71.021
625, Act 5, § 11-803           71.022
625, Act 5, § 11-804           71.023
625, Act 5, § 11-805           71.024
625, Act 5, § 11-806           71.025
625, Act 5, § 11-901           71.060
625, Act 5, § 11-902           71.061
625, Act 5, § 11-903           71.062
625, Act 5, § 11-904           71.063
625, Act 5, § 11-905           71.064
625, Act 5, § 11-906           71.065
625, Act 5, § 11-907           71.048,
                                71.066
625, Act 5, § 11-907.5         71.048
625, Act 5, § 11-908           71.048
625, Act 5, § 11-1001          74.01
625, Act 5, § 11-1002          74.02
625, Act 5, § 11-1003          74.03
625, Act 5, § 11-1003.1        74.04
625, Act 5, § 11-1004          74.05
625, Act 5, § 11-1004.1        74.13
625, Act 5, § 11-1005          74.06
625, Act 5, § 11-1006          74.07
625, Act 5, § 11-1007          74.08
625, Act 5, § 11-1008          74.09
625, Act 5, § 11-1009          74.10
625, Act 5, § 11-1010          74.11
625, Act 5, § 11-1011          74.12
625, Act 5, § 11-1201          71.080
625, Act 5, § 11-1202          71.081
625, Act 5, § 11-1204          70.46
625, Act 5, § 11-1205          71.082
625, Act 5, § 11-1301          72.16
625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2        72.17
625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3(c)     72.99
625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3(d)     72.99
625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3        72.17
625, Act 5, § 11-1302          72.50
625, Act 5, § 11-1303          72.15
625, Act 5, § 11-1304          72.01;
                                72.16
625, Act 5, § 11-1305          72.51
625, Act 5, § 11-1401          72.02
625, Act 5, § 11-1402          71.095
625, Act 5, § 11-1403          73.20
625, Act 5, § 11-1403.1        73.08
625, Act 5, § 11-1403.2        73.23
625, Act 5, § 11-1404          73.21
625, Act 5, § 11-1405          73.22
625, Act 5, § 11-1406          71.097
625, Act 5, § 11-1407          71.098
625, Act 5, § 11-1410          71.099
625, Act 5, § 11-1411          71.100
625, Act 5, § 11-1412          71.100
625, Act 5, § 11-1412.1        71.101
625, Act 5, § 11-1413          71.103
625, Act 5, § 11-1414          71.045
625, Act 5, § 11-1416          71.104
625, Act 5, § 11-1418          71.105
625, Act 5, § 11-1420          71.067
625, Act 5, § 11-1425          71.083
625, Act 5, § 11-1502          73.01
625, Act 5, § 11-1503          73.02
625, Act 5, § 11-1504          73.03
625, Act 5, § 11-1505          73.04
625, Act 5, § 11-1505.1        73.04
625, Act 5, § 11-1506          73.05
625, Act 5, § 11-1507          73.06
625, Act 5, § 11-1507.1        73.07
625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq. 75.01
625, Act 5, § 12-101           75.01
625, Act 5, § 12-208           71.023;
                                71.024
625, Act 5, § 12-215           70.21,
                                71.066
625, Act 5, § 12-601           74.10
625, Act 5, § 12-601.1         71.066
625, Act 5, § 12-601.2         71.066
625, Act 5, § 12-801           71.066
625, Act 5, § 12-803           71.045,
                                71.081
625, Act 5, § 12-805           71.045,
                                71.081
625, Act 5, §§ 15-101 et seq. 75.01
625, Act 5, § 15-101           75.15
625, Act 5, § 15-105           75.16
625, Act 5, § 15-106           75.17
625, Act 5, § 15-109           75.18
625, Act 5, § 15-114           75.19
625, Act 5, §§ 16-101 et seq. 70.99
625, Act 40                     70.01
720, Act 5                      10.38
720, Act 5, § 2-2              130.01
720, Act 5, § 2-3              130.01
720, Act 5, § 2-4              130.01
720, Act 5, § 2-12             130.01
720, Act 5, § 4-4              130.02
720, Act 5, § 4-5              130.03
720, Act 5, § 4-6              130.04
720, Act 5, § 4-7              130.05
720, Act 5, § 8-4              130.05
720, Act 5, §§ 11-6—11-22   113.23;
                                113.42
720, Act 5, § 11-20            134.01;
                                134.02
720, Act 5, § 11-21            134.03
720, Act 5, § 11-30            134.01
720, Act 5, § 21-3             131.02
720, Act 5, § 24-1             10.38;
                                137.01
720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(6)       137.01
720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(7)       137.01;
                                137.02
720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(9)       137.01
720, Act 5, § 24-2-1.9         137.01
720, Act 5, § 24-2             137.02
720, Act 5, § 24-3.1           137.03
720, Act 5, § 24-5             137.04
720, Act 5, § 24-6             137.05
720, Act 5, § 26-1             132.01
720, Act 5, § 28-1             135.02
720, Act 5, § 28-1(a)(4)       135.02
720, Act 5, § 28-2             135.01
720, Act 5, § 28-2(a)(1)—(a)(135.01
720, Act 5, § 28-3             135.03
720, Act 5, § 28-5             135.04
720, Act 5, § 31-1             133.01
720, Act 5, § 31-8             133.02
720, Act 5, § 32-9             133.03
720, Act 550, §3               138.01
720, Act 550, § 4              10.38
720, Act 570, §102             138.01
720, Act 570, § 402            10.38
725, Act 5, §§ 100-1 et seq.  35.999
735, Act 5                      111.07
735, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.  10.37;
                                35.999
                                10.36—
735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.  10.38;
                                70.03
735, Act 5, § 3-109            10.36
735, Act 5, § 15-1207          35.104
765, Act 205, § 2              156.06
810, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.  10.37
                                
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2013 Code
Prior Code 2013 Code
10.01      10.01
10.02      10.02
10.03      10.03
10.04      10.04
10.05      10.05
10.06      10.06
10.07      10.07
10.08      10.08
10.09      10.09
10.10      10.10
10.11      10.11
10.12      10.12
10.13      10.13
10.14      10.14
10.15      10.15
10.16      10.16
10.17      10.17
10.18      10.18
10.99      10.99
11.01      11.01
30.001     30.001
30.002     30.002
30.003     30.003
30.004     30.004
30.005     30.005
30.006     30.006
30.007     30.007
30.008     30.008
30.009     30.009
30.010     30.010
30.011     30.011
30.012     30.012
30.013     30.013
30.050     30.030
30.051     30.031
30.052     30.032
30.053     30.033
30.060     30.045
30.061     30.046
30.062     30.047
30.063     30.048
30.064     30.049
30.065     30.050
30.066     30.051
30.067     30.052
30.068     30.053
30.069     30.054
30.070     30.055
30.071     30.056
30.080     30.070
30.081     30.071
30.082     30.072
30.083     30.073
30.084     30.074
30.085     30.075
30.086     30.076
30.087     30.077
30.088     30.078
30.100     30.105
30.101     30.106
30.102     30.107
30.115     30.120
30.116     30.121
30.117     30.122
30.118     30.123
30.119     30.124
30.130     30.135
30.131     30.136
30.132     30.137
30.133     30.138
30.145     30.150
30.146     30.151
30.147     30.152
30.148     30.153
30.149     30.154
30.160     30.165
30.161     30.166
30.162     30.167
30.180     30.180
30.181     30.181
30.190     30.195
30.191     30.196
30.192     30.197
30.200     30.210
30.201     30.211
30.202     30.212
30.999     30.999
31.01      31.01
31.02      31.02
31.10      31.15
31.11      31.16
31.12      31.17
31.20      31.30
31.21      31.31
31.22      31.32
31.23      31.33
31.24      31.34
31.99      31.99
32.01      32.01
32.02      32.02
32.03      32.03
32.04      32.04
32.05      32.05
32.06      32.06
32.07      32.07
32.08      32.08
32.09      32.09
32.10      32.10
32.11      32.11
32.20      32.25
32.21      32.26
32.22      32.27
33.01      33.01
33.02      33.02
33.03      33.03
33.04      33.04
33.05      33.05
33.06      33.06
33.07      33.07
33.08      33.08
33.09      33.09
33.20      33.20
34.01      34.01
34.02      34.02
34.03      34.03
34.04      34.04
34.10      34.15
34.99      34.99
35.001     35.001
35.002     35.002
35.003     35.003
35.004     35.004
35.005     35.005
35.006     35.006
35.007     35.007
35.008     35.008
35.020     35.055
35.021     35.056
35.022     35.057
35.023     35.058
35.024     35.059
35.025     35.060
35.026     35.061
35.027     35.062
35.040     35.075
35.041     35.076
35.042     35.077
35.043     35.078
35.044     35.079
35.045     35.080
35.055     35.100
35.056     35.101
35.057     35.102
35.058     35.103
35.059     35.104
35.070     35.115
35.071     35.116
35.072     35.117
35.073     35.118
35.074     35.119
35.075     35.120
35.076     35.121
35.077     35.122
35.078     35.123
35.079     35.124
35.080     35.125
35.081     35.126
35.082     35.127
35.083     35.128
35.084     35.129
35.085     35.130
35.086     35.131
35.087     35.132
35.088     35.133
35.089     35.134
35.090     35.135
35.091     35.136
35.092     35.137
35.093     35.138
35.094     35.139
35.095     35.140
35.096     35.141
35.999     35.999
50.01      50.001
50.02      50.002
50.03      50.003
50.04      50.004
50.15      50.015
50.20      50.030
50.21      50.031
50.30      50.045
50.31      50.046
50.40      50.060
50.41      50.061
50.42      50.062
50.43      50.063
50.50      50.075
50.51      50.076
50.52      50.077
50.53      50.078
50.54      50.079
50.99      50.999
51.01      51.01
51.02      51.02
51.03      51.03
51.04      51.04
51.05      51.05
51.06      51.06
51.07      51.07
51.08      51.08
51.09      51.09
51.10      51.10
51.11      51.11
51.99      51.99
52.01      52.01
52.02      52.02
52.03      52.03
52.04      52.04
52.05      52.05
52.06      52.06
52.20      52.20
52.21      52.21
52.22      52.22
52.23      52.23
52.24      52.24
52.25      52.25
52.26      52.26
52.40      52.40
52.41      52.41
52.42      52.42
52.45      52.55
52.46      52.56
52.47      52.57
52.48      52.58
52.49      52.59
52.50      52.60
52.99      52.60
70.01      70.01
70.02      70.02
70.10      70.20
70.11      70.21
70.12      70.22
70.13      70.23
70.30      70.35
70.31      70.36
70.32      70.37
70.33      70.38
70.34      70.39
70.35      70.40
70.36      70.41,
           70.99
70.37      70.42,
           70.99
70.38      70.43
70.39      70.44
70.40      70.45
70.41      70.46
70.42      70.47
70.50      70.60
70.51      70.61
70.52      70.62
70.53      70.63
70.54      70.64
70.99      70.99
71.001     71.001
71.002     71.002
71.003     71.003
71.004     71.004
71.020     71.020
71.021     71.021
71.022     71.022
71.023     71.023
71.024     71.024
71.025     71.024
71.040     71.040
71.041     71.041
71.042     71.042
71.043     71.043
71.044     71.043
71.045     71.045
71.046     71.046
71.047     71.047
71.048     71.048
71.060     71.060
71.061     71.061
71.062     71.062
71.063     71.063
71.064     71.064
71.065     71.065
71.066     71.066
71.067     71.067
71.080     71.080
71.081     71.080
71.082     71.082
71.083     71.083
71.095     71.095
71.096     71.096
71.097     71.097
71.098     71.098
71.099     71.099
71.100     71.100
71.101     71.101
71.102     71.102
71.103     71.103
71.104     71.104
71.105     71.105
71.106     71.106
71.120     71.120
71.121     71.121
71.122     71.122
71.123     71.123
71.124     71.123
71.125     71.125
71.126     71.126
71.127     71.126
71.128     71.128
71.129     71.129
71.130     71.130
71.131     71.131
72.01      72.01
72.02      72.02
72.10      72.15
72.11      72.16
72.12      72.17
72.13      72.18
72.14      72.19
72.25      72.35
72.26      72.36
72.27      72.37
72.40      72.50
72.41      72.51
72.99      72.99
73.01      73.01
73.02      73.02
73.03      73.03
73.04      73.04
73.05      73.05
73.06      73.06
73.07      73.07
73.08      73.08
73.20      73.20
73.21      73.21
73.22      73.22
73.23      73.23
74.01      74.01
74.02      74.02
74.03      74.03
74.04      74.04
74.05      74.05
74.06      74.06
74.07      74.07
74.08      74.08
74.09      74.09
74.10      74.10
74.11      74.11
74.12      74.12
74.13      74.13
75.01      75.01
75.10      75.01
75.11      75.16
75.12      75.17
75.13      75.18
75.14      75.19
76.01      76.01
76.02      76.02
76.03      76.03
76.04      76.04
76.05      76.05
76.06      76.06
76.08      76.08
90.01      90.01
90.02      90.02
90.03      90.03
90.04      90.04
90.99      90.99
91.01      91.01
91.02      91.02
91.03      91.03
91.04      91.04
91.05      91.05
91.06      91.06
91.07      91.07
91.08      91.08
91.09      91.09
91.10      91.10
91.20      91.25
91.21      91.26
91.22      91.27
91.23      91.28
91.24      91.29
91.25      91.30
91.26      91.31
91.27      91.32
91.28      91.33
91.29      91.34
91.99      91.99
92.01      92.01
92.02      92.02
92.20      92.15
92.21      92.16
92.22      92.17
92.23      92.18
92.30      92.30
92.31      92.31
92.32      92.32
92.99      92.99
93.01      93.01
93.02      93.02
93.99      93.99
94.01      94.01
94.02      94.02
94.03      94.03
94.04      94.04
94.05      94.05
94.06      94.06
94.07      94.07
94.08      94.08
94.09      94.09
94.10      94.10
94.11      94.11
94.12      94.12
94.13      94.13
94.14      94.14
94.99      94.99
95.01      95.01
95.02      95.02
95.03      95.03
95.04      95.04
95.05      95.05
95.06      95.06
95.07      95.07
95.20      95.20
95.30      95.20
95.31      95.36
95.50      95.50
95.51      95.51
95.52      95.52
95.53      95.53
95.99      95.99
96.01      96.01
96.02      96.02
96.03      96.03
96.04      96.04
96.05      96.05
96.06      96.06
96.07      96.07
96.08      96.08
96.09      96.09
96.10      96.10
96.11      96.11
96.12      96.12
96.13      96.13
96.14      96.14
96.15      96.15
96.16      96.16
96.17      96.17
96.18      96.18
96.19      96.19
96.30      96.30
96.31      96.31
96.32      96.32
96.33      96.33
96.34      96.34
96.40      96.45
96.50      96.60
96.51      96.61
96.52      96.62
96.53      96.63
96.54      96.64
96.55      96.65
96.56      96.66
96.99      96.99
110.015    110.001
110.016    110.002
110.017    110.003
110.018    110.004
110.019    110.005
110.020    110.006
110.035    110.020
110.036    110.021
110.037    110.022
110.038    110.023
110.039    110.024
110.040    110.025
110.041    110.026
110.042    110.026
110.043    110.028
110.044    110.029
110.045    110.030
110.046    110.031
110.047    110.032
110.048    110.033
110.049    110.034
110.050    110.035
110.051    110.036
110.052    110.037
110.053    110.038
110.054    110.039
110.055    110.040
110.056    110.041
110.057    110.042
110.058    110.043
110.059    110.044
110.060    110.045
110.061    110.046
110.070    110.060
110.071    110.061
110.072    110.062
110.073    110.063
110.074    110.064
110.075    110.065
110.076    110.066
110.077    110.067
110.078    110.068
110.090    110.080
110.091    110.081
110.092    110.082
110.093    110.083
110.094    110.084
110.095    110.085
110.096    110.086
110.097    110.087
110.999    110.999
111.01     111.01
111.02     111.02
111.03     111.03
111.04     111.04
111.05     111.05
111.06     111.06
111.07     111.07
111.08     111.08
111.20     111.20
111.21     111.21
111.22     111.22
111.23     111.23
111.24     111.24
111.99     111.99
112.01     112.01
112.02     112.02
112.03     112.03
112.04     112.04
112.05     112.05
112.06     112.06
112.07     112.07
112.08     112.08
112.09     112.09
112.10     112.10
112.11     112.11
112.12     112.12
112.13     112.13
112.14     112.14
112.15     112.15
112.30     112.30
112.31     112.30
112.32     112.30
112.99     112.99
113.01     113.01
113.02     113.02
113.03     113.03
113.04     113.04
113.05     113.05
113.06     113.06
113.07     113.07
113.20     113.20
113.21     113.21
113.22     113.22
113.23     113.23
113.24     113.24
113.25     113.25
113.26     113.26
113.27     113.27
113.40     113.40
113.41     113.41
113.42     113.42
113.43     113.43
113.99     113.99
114.01     114.01
114.02     114.02
114.03     114.03
114.04     114.04
114.05     114.05
114.06     114.06
114.07     114.06
114.15     114.20
114.16     114.21
114.17     114.22
114.18     114.23
114.19     114.24
114.20     114.25
114.99     114.99
115.01     115.01
115.02     115.02
115.03     115.03
115.04     115.04
115.05     115.05
115.06     115.06
115.07     115.07
115.15     115.20
115.16     115.21
115.17     115.22
115.18     115.23
115.19     115.24
115.20     115.25
115.21     115.26
115.22     115.27
115.23     115.28
115.24     115.29
115.35     115.40
115.36     115.41
115.37     115.42
115.99     115.99
130.01     130.01
130.02     130.02
130.03     130.03
130.04     130.04
130.05     130.05
130.06     130.06
130.99     130.99
131.01     131.01
131.02     131.02
131.03     131.03
131.04     131.04
131.99     131.99
132.01     132.01
132.02     132.02
132.03     132.03
132.04     132.04
132.15     132.15
132.16     132.16
132.17     132.17
132.18     132.18
132.99     132.99
133.01     133.01
133.02     133.02
133.03     133.03
134.01     134.01
134.02     134.02
134.03     134.03
135.01     135.01
135.02     135.02
135.03     135.03
135.04     135.04
136.01     136.01
136.02     136.02,
           136.99
136.03     136.03,
           136.99
136.04     136.04,
           136.99
136.05     136.05
136.06     136.06,
           136.99
136.07     136.07
137.01     137.01
137.02     137.02
137.03     137.03
137.04     137.04
137.05     137.05
150.001    150.001
150.002    150.002
150.003    150.003
150.004    150.004
150.005    150.005
150.006    150.006
150.007    150.007
150.008    150.008
150.009    150.009
150.015    150.020
150.016    150.021
150.017    150.022
150.018    150.023
150.019    150.024
150.020    150.025
150.021    150.026
150.022    150.027
150.023    150.028
150.024    150.029
150.025    150.030
150.026    150.031
150.027    150.032
150.028    150.033
150.029    150.034
150.035    150.045
150.036    150.046
150.037    150.047
150.045    150.060
150.046    150.061
150.047    150.062
150.048    150.063
150.049    150.064
150.055    150.075
150.056    150.076
150.057    150.077
150.065    150.090
150.066    150.091
150.067    150.092
150.068    150.093
150.069    150.094
150.080    150.105
150.081    150.106
150.082    150.107
150.083    150.108
150.090    150.120
150.091    150.121
150.092    150.122
150.105    150.135
150.106    150.136
150.107    150.137
150.108    150.138
150.120    150.150
150.121    150.151
150.122    150.152
150.123    150.153
150.124    150.154
150.125    150.155
150.126    150.156
150.127    150.157
150.128    150.158
150.129    150.159
150.130    150.160
150.131    150.161
150.132    150.162
150.999    150.999
152.01     152.01
152.02     152.02
152.03     152.03
152.04     152.04
152.05     152.05
152.06     152.06
152.07     152.07
152.08     152.08
152.09     152.09
152.10     152.10
152.11     152.11
152.20     152.25
152.21     152.26
152.30     152.40
152.31     152.41
152.32     152.42
152.33     152.43
152.34     152.44
152.40     152.55
152.41     152.56
152.42     152.57
152.43     152.58
152.99     152.99
153.01     153.01
153.02     153.02
153.10     153.15
153.11     153.16
153.12     153.17
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     50.001—
                     50.003;
                     50.015;
                     50.030;
                     50.031;
-        4-25-1966   50.045;
                     50.046;
                     50.061;
                     50.062;
                     50.075—
                     50.079;
                     50.999
                     90.01—
16-904A  6-27-1966   90.04;
                     90.99
69-10    4-27-1970   150.007;
                     150.999
71-5     9-13-1971   72.19
71-7     10-25-1971  150.064
72-1     7-1-1972    96.19
72-8     4-9-1973    32.07
72-9     4-9-1973    30.030—
                     30.033
73-7     2-11-1974   31.30—
                     31.34
                     35.055—
73-8     2-11-1974   35.062;
                     35.999
                     114.01;
                     114.03—
73-9     2-11-1974   114.06;
                     114.25;
                     114.99
                     114.05;
73-10    2-11-1974   114.20—
                     114.24;
                     114.99
73-10A   4-8-1974    114.21;
                     114.22
                     152.01—
                     152.11;
                     152.25;
                     152.26;
74-1     5-13-1974   152.40—
                     152.44;
                     152.55—
                     152.58;
                     152.99
74-3     6-10-1974   35.999
74-5     8-26-1974   150.135
74-5A    10-14-1974  150.135—
                     150.138
74-12    3-10-1975   30.046
74-13    4-7-1975    150.007
                     113.01—
                     113.07;
                     113.20—
75-1     6-9-1975    113.27;
                     113.40—
                     113.43;
                     113.99
75-4     8-18-1975   52.55
75-5     8-18-1975   150.046
75-3     8-19-1975   52.40;
                     52.41
75-8     8-25-1975   35.056
75-15    12-15-1975  150.135
75-16    1-27-1976   91.99;
                     94.99
76-3     5-24-1976   96.99;
                     110.999
76-13    4-11-1977   32.09
77-6     5-23-1977   132.04
77-7     6-13-1977   110.999
77-9     6-27-1977   52.57;
                     52.58
77-10    8-12-1977   150.062
77-11    8-12-1977   112.30
                     35.075—
77-14    9-26-1977   35.080;
                     35.999
79-2     5-15-1979   52.42;
                     52.60
                     91.01—
-        2-11-1980   91.09;
                     91.99
79-11    4-14-1980   50.030
80-4     6-9-1980    95.50—
                     95.53
80-8     4-27-1981   52.57;
                     52.58
81-6     8-31-1981   35.076
82-3     10-11-1982  92.02
82-6     3-13-1983   112.12;
                     112.99
                     112.06;
82-8     3-14-1983   112.15;
                     112.30
82-10    4-25-1983   30.195—
                     30.197
83-2     6-13-1983   92.15—
                     92.18
83-4     7-11-1983   32.06
83-8     1-9-1984    93.02
83-10    4-23-1984   50.030
84-9     12-10-1984  72.19
84-10    12-10-1984  30.033;
                     30.046
84-12    12-10-1984  112.30
85-1     5-13-1985   30.002
85-2     5-13-1985   32.27
85-3     5-13-1985   50.030
                     51.11;
85-4     5-13-1985   52.56—
                     52.58
                     35.115—
86-4     7-28-1986   35.141;
                     35.999
                     110.020—
                     110.026;
                     110.029;
86-7     1-12-1987   110.033;
                     110.037;
                     110.039—
                     110.046;
                     110.999
87-2     6-22-1987   35.141
87-3     6-22-1987   150.006;
                     150.999
87-4     6-22-1987   35.100—
                     35.104
87-7     7-13-1987   32.08
87-8     7-27-1987   150.006
87-11    11-9-1987   150.006
88-2     6-27-1988   150.062
88-3     6-27-1988   35.076
88-4     8-22-1988   50.030
88-6     11-28-1988  30.033;
                     30.046
88-8     2-13-1989   150.028
                     51.04;
                     52.21;
                     52.26;
                     150.003;
88-8     2-27-1989   150.033;
                     150.034;
                     150.045—
                     150.047;
                     150.061;
                     150.076
89-2     6-12-1989   50.030
89-5     7-24-1989   33.09
89-6     8-14-1989   51.10
89-7     8-14-1989   52.58
89-8     8-28-1989   110.080—
                     110.087
89-10    9-18-1989   110.001
89-11    10-9-1989   35.056
89-15    1-8-1990    150.076
89-17    1-8-1990    30.047
                     115.01—
89-23    4-23-1990   115.07;
                     115.20—
                     115.29
90-6     6-11-1990   112.30
90-7     9-11-1990   110.083
                     150.105—
90-11    9-24-1990   150.107;
                     150.999
90-12    9-24-1990   32.09
90-15    1-28-1991   110.083
91-3     7-22-1991   52.57;
                     52.58
91-4     7-22-1991   30.002
91-5     8-12-1991   30.210—
                     30.212
                     150.106—
91-7     - -1991     150.108;
                     150.999
                     111.01—
                     111.08;
91-11    4-20-1992   111.20—
                     111.24;
                     111.99
92-1     5-4-1992    150.009
92-3     7-20-1992   33.20
92-4     8-17-1992   70.02
92-9     12-21-1992  30.078
93-8     - -1993     111.03
92-11    4-19-1993   93.01;
                     93.99
93-2     10-4-1993   32.11
93-3     11-1-1993   32.09
93-4     11-15-1993  111.03
93-6     3-21-1994   112.15
93-7     4-18-1994   112.15
                     91.25—
93-9     4-18-1994   91.34;
                     91.99
94-2     6-6-1994    132.02;
                     132.99
                     132.15—
94-3     6-6-1994    132.18;
                     132.99
94-4     6-6-1994    131.04;
                     131.99
94-5     6-6-1994    132.03;
                     132.99
94-6     6-20-1994   32.09
94-9     11-7-1994   32.10;
                     33.08
94-11    4-3-1995    35.100
94-12    4-3-1995    35.075
94-13    4-17-1995   30.014
                     118.01—
94-14    4-18-1995   118.07;
                     118.99
                     35.170—
95-2     6-19-1995   35.176;
                     112.15
95-5     9-18-1995   72.20;
                     72.99
95-8     10-2-1995   134.01
95-10    11-20-1995  52.21
95-12    12-18-1995  93.03
95-13    12-18-1995  32.12
95-14    3-4-1996    30.014
95-16    3-4-1996    30.014
95-15    3-18-1996   150.045
96-2     5-20-1996   32.09
96-3     5-20-1996   30.003
96-6     7-1-1996    150.045
96-9     9-16-1996   150.006
                     117.01;
96-10    9-16-1996   117.02;
                     117.99
96-11    10-7-1996   32.07
96-12    11-4-1996   32.07
96-14    12-16-1996  132.02;
                     132.99
96-16    2-3-1997    132.03
97-1     5-19-1997   52.57;
                     52.58
97-2     6-2-1997    150.006
97-3     6-2-1997    70.61
97-7     11-17-1997  35.190—
                     35.198
97-12    1-19-1998   30.014
97-14    2-2-1998    150.094
97-15    3-2-1998    35.055—
                     35.062
97-16    3-2-1998    150.029
97-17    3-2-1998    150.046
97-18    3-2-1998    112.15
                     90.01—
97-19    4-20-1998   90.04;
                     90.99
98-1     6-1-1998    30.017
                     35.075;
98-4     7-31-1998   35.081—
                     35.087
98-5     9-21-1998   32.09
98-6     9-21-1998   111.05
98-8     10-19-1998  33.20
                     135.15;
00-01    5-15-2000   135.16;
                     135.99
00-6     11-6-2000   35.010
00-08    11-20-2000  30.047
00-11    12-18-2000  35.076
01-01    4-25-2001   32.09
01-02    4-25-2001   35.009
01-03    5-22-2001   110.020
01-04    5-22-2001   35.170;
                     35.171
01-05    6-12-2001   32.09
01-09    8-28-2001   30.016
01-10    8-28-2001   111.03
01-12    9-11-2001   111.03
01-13    9-11-2001   70.04;
                     70.99
01-14    9-11-2001   116.01;
                     116.02
01-15    9-11-2001   35.025—
                     35.042
01-22    9-25-2001   30.014
01-16    10-9-2001   111.03
                     51.25—
01-17    10-23-2001  51.31;
                     51.99
01-18    10-23-2001  150.048
02-01    1-8-2002    150.106
02-02    1-22-2002   72.21
02-03    2-12-2002   50.030
02-04    2-12-2002   72.15
02-05    2-12-2002   112.31
02-06    3-12-2002   111.03
02-09    3-12-2002   70.02
02-07    3-26-2002   35.117
02-11    4-9-2002    112.02;
                     112.99
                     119.01;
                     119.15—
02-12    4-9-2002    119.21;
                     119.35—
                     119.45;
                     119.99
02-14    4-23-2002   30.014
02-16    4-23-2002   112.16
02-17    4-23-2002   30.090—
                     30.092
02-19    5-14-2002   72.20
02-22    6-11-2002   112.32
02-23    7-23-2002   150.028
02-27    8-27-2002   111.03
02-29    9-24-2002   35.199
02-30    9-24-2002   10.19
02-31    11-26-2002  111.03
02-32    11-26-2002  155.01
02-33    11-26-2002  154.01
03-01    1-14-2003   31.45—
                     31.50
03-02    2-11-2003   132.02
03-03    3-11-2003   111.03
03-04    3-25-2003   95.08;
                     95.99
03-05    3-25-2003   120.01—
                     120.04
03-06    4-8-2003    112.15
03-07    4-8-2003    30.014
03-09    4-22-2003   52.57
03-10    5-13-2003   154.01
03-11    5-13-2003   52.41
03-13    5-13-2003   10.30—
                     10.38
03-14    5-13-2003   112.15
03-18    6-24-2003   154.01
03-22    8-12-2003   35.199
03-23    9-9-2003    33.20
03-24    9-9-2003    72.20
                     73.35—
03-25    9-23-2003   73.37;
                     73.99
03-26    10-14-2003  31.65
03-31    12-9-2003   111.03
04-03    2-10-2004   72.20
04-05    2-24-2004   10.38
04-07    3-9-2004    52.60
04-08    3-9-2004    91.25
04-09    3-23-2004   112.15;
                     Ch. 112; App. A
04-10    4-13-2004   112.15
04-11    5-11-2004   150.006
04-12    5-12-2004   111.03
                     36.01—
04-13    5-25-2004   36.08;
                     36.99
04-18    5-25-2004   35.102
04-15    6-1-2004    70.06;
                     70.99
04-17    6-1-2004    150.028
04-23    6-22-2004   111.03
04-28    9-14-2004   91.02
04-29    9-28-2004   154.01
05-02    2-8-2005    52.21
05-03    2-8-2005    150.045
05-05    2-22-2005   52.41
05-07    3-22-2005   111.03
                     150.175—
05-08    5-10-2005   150.183;
                     150.999
                     156.01—
                     156.11;
                     156.25—
                     156.28;
                     156.40—
05-09    5-24-2005   156.42;
                     156.55—
                     156.57;
                     156.70—
                     156.73;
                     156.99
05-12    6-14-2005   70.02
05-13    6-14-2005   91.02
05-14    6-21-2005   50.030;
                     51.11
05-15    6-28-2005   111.25;
                     111.99
05-16    7-26-2005   35.076
05-19    11-22-2005  52.40
06-02    1-10-2006   92.01
06-04    2-28-2006   111.03
06-05    2-28-2006   150.028
06-06    4-11-2006   32.09
06-09    6-27-2006   111.03
06-10    8-28-2006   154.01
06-13    9-26-2006   33.01
06-14    10-24-2006  51.01
06-15    10-24-2006  52.21
06-16    10-24-2006  150.003
06-17    11-6-2006   111.03
06-18    11-15-2006  10.38
                     93.15—
07-01    1-23-2007   93.27;
                     93.99
07-03    2-13-2007   116.02
07-06    5-22-2007   50.030
07-07    6-12-2007   70.05;
                     70.99
08-01    1-8-2008    70.03;
                     70.99
08-02    2-26-2008   52.57;
                     52.58
08-04    2-26-2008   111.03
08-05    4-8-2008    112.15;
                     Ch. 112; App. A
08-06    4-22-2008   111.03
08-07    5-13-2008   33.20
08-08    5-13-2008   110.020;
                     110.021
08-12    6-24-2008   156.12
08-16    7-22-2008   35.117
08-17    8-14-2008   156.02;
                     156.05
08-18    8-26-2008   32.06
                     53.01—
08-19    10-28-2008  53.06;
                     53.20—
                     53.28
                     51.11;
09-02    4-28-2009   52.57;
                     52.58
09-06    8-11-2009   111.03
09-08    11-24-2009  111.03
09-09    12-8-2009   154.01
10-02    2-17-2010   70.02
                     151.01—
                     151.08;
                     151.20—
                     151.35;
10-03    2-17-2010   151.50—
                     151.58;
                     151.70;
                     151.71;
                     151.99
10-04    3-23-2010   52.57;
                     52.58
10-05    3-23-2010   112.15;
                     Ch. 112; App. A
10-06    3-23-2010   31.66
10-09    8-19-2010   111.03;
                     120.02
10-16    12-14-2010  30.017
11-01    1-25-2011   150.028
                     112.15;
11-08    3-22-2011   Ch. 112;
                     App. A
11-05    4-12-2011   50.030
11-07    4-12-2011   31.67
                     35.155—
11-09    4-12-2011   35.159;
                     35.999
11-11    4-12-2011   112.15
11-12    4-12-2011   111.03
11-10    5-10-2011   70.62
11-15    5-24-2011   111.03
11-16    5-24-2011   30.015
11-18    6-28-2011   95.06
11-19    7-12-2011   10.38
11-20    7-12-2011   72.20
11-17    10-11-2011  94.03
11-23    11-8-2011   93.18
12-01    1-24-2012   32.12
12-02    2-15-2012   52.57;
                     52.58
12-03    2-15-2012   150.045
12-06    5-8-2012    121.01—
                     121.07
12-11    7-24-2012   154.01
12-14    8-28-2012   32.06
12-15    9-11-2012   32.12
12-16    9-25-2012   32.06
12-08    10-9-2012   110.020;
                     110.021
                     111.21;
                     111.26;
13-01    1-22-2013   135.01—
                     135.04;
                     135.16
13-03    4-23-13     150.009
13-04    5-7-2013    52.57;
                     52.58
13-05    5-14-2013   32.09
13-07    6-11-2013   110.020
13-11    8-13-2013   30.018
13-13    8-27-2013   70.62
13-14    9-10-2013   52.57;
                     52.58
13-16    11-12-2013  Adopting Ordinance
13-19    11-12-2013  154.01
14-01    2-11-2014   150.029
                     50.030;
14-02    3-11-2014   51.11;
                     52.57;
                     52.58
14-05    3-25-2014   Ch. 112; App. A
14-06    4-8-2014    Ch. 112; App. A
14-09    5-13-2014   50.030
14-11    5-13-2014   70.62
14-15    6-10-2014   72.19
                     52.57;
14-17    8-12-2014   52.58;
                     52.59
14-18    9-23-2014   52.57;
                     52.58
14-22    12-9-2014   52.57;
                     52.58
15-04    3-10-2015   52.57;
                     52.58
15-11    11-24-2015  52.57;
                     52.58
15-13    12-15-2015  112.06
16-01    1-12-2016   50.080—
                     50.083
16-04    5-10-2016   121.01—
                     121.07
16-08    5-10-2016   111.06
16-09    5-10-2016   50.060;
                     50.063
16-10    5-24-2016   Ch. 112; App. A
16-11    5-24-2016   30.047
16-16    7-26-2016   122.01—
                     122.08
16-18    9-13-2016   52.57;
                     52.58
17-01    4-28-2017   52.08
17-03    5-9-2017    52.57;
                     52.58
17-06    6-13-2017   50.060;
                     50.063
17-13    8-8-2017    154.01
17-16    9-12-2017   72.18
17-17    9-12-2017   111.05
17-20    9-12-2017   94.15
                     138.01;
17-24    11-14-2017  138.02;
                     138.99
17-25    11-14-2017  76.10
17-27    11-28-2017  52.57;
                     52.58
17-28    12-12-2017  52.41
18-01    1-23-2018   150.045
18-02    1-23-2018   150.029
18-04    2-13-2018   111.03;
                     111.09
18-05    2-13-2018   51.12
18-07    4-10-2018   70.62
18-08    3-13-2018   111.05
                     123.01—
18-09    4-10-2018   123.03;
                     123.99
                     51.11;
18-10    4-10-2018   52.57;
                     52.58
18-13    4-24-2018   120.02
18-18    6-26-2018   52.07
18-20    6-26-2018   70.62
18-21    7-24-2018   111.03;
                     111.09
18-22    8-14-2018   124.01—
                     124.06
18-26    12-11-2018  150.029
19-01    2-26-2019   72.20
19-02    4-9-2019    138.02
19-04    5-14-2019   52.57,
                     52.58
19-06    5-14-2019   134.04
19-07    5-14-2019   30.018
19-08    5-14-2019   112.15
19-09    6-11-2019   30.047
19-10    8-13-2019   154.045
19-11    8-13-2019   111.03
                     111.21;
                     111.26;
19-14    9-24-2019   135.01—
                     135.04;
                     135.15;
                     135.16
19-15    9-24-2019   Adopting Ordinance
19-16    9-27-2019   35.220;
                     35.221
19-18    11-12-2019  112.15
19-22    11-26-2019  33.10
19-23    11-26-2019  30.051
19-24    12-10-2019  111.03
20-01    1-28-2020   30.047
20-03    2-25-2020   52.41
20-04    3-10-2020   111.03
20-10    6-9-2020    52.57;
                     52.58
20-15    7-28-2020   111.26
20-17    10-13-2020  150.135;
                     150.139
20-18    11-10-2020  30.019
21-01    1-12-2021   111.03
21-02    3-23-2021   52.41
21-03    2-23-2021   110.020
21-04    3-23-2021   52.57;
                     52.58
21-05    4-13-2021   111.03
21-09    4-13-2021   72.20
21-10    5-11-2021   111.03
21-13    6-8-2021    91.28
21-16    7-27-2021   150.029
21-17    8-10-2021   72.20
21-18    8-10-2021   30.090—
                     30.093
21-20    10-5-2021   32.28
21-23    10-26-2021  150.045
21-24    10-31-2021  35.230—
                     35.237
21-25    12-14-2021  30.015
22-03    2-8-2022    35.102
22-04    2-8-2022    150.006
22-05    3-8-2022    150.139
                     151.01—
                     151.08;
                     151.20—
                     151.35;
22-06    3-22-2022   151.50—
                     151.58;
                     151.70;
                     151.71;
                     151.99
                     51.11,
22-08    4-12-2022   52.57,
                     52.58
22-09    4-12-2022   50.030
22-10    4-12-2022   150.031
22-13    4-26-2022   157.01—
                     157.03
                     150.106,
22-17    8-23-2022   150.107,
                     150.108,
                     150.999
22-19    8-9-2022    154.01
22-20    9-27-2022   150.006
22-25    11-8-2022   150.045
23-01    2-14-2023   150.045,
                     150.047
                     10.38,
23-04    5-9-2023    10.99,
                     76.02,
                     76.11
23-08    6-27-2023   150.029
                     Repeals
23-09    6-27-2023   71.145,
                     71.146,
                     71.147
23-10    6-27-2023   150.045,
                     150.047
23-11    6-27-2023   90.02
23-12    7-11-2023   70.62
23-13    7-11-2023   90.99
                    
 
