VILLAGE CODE of
STRONGHURST
ILLINOIS
Code current through:
Ord. 01February2021-1, passed 2-1-2021
 
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Village of Stronghurst, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 01February2021-1, passed February 1,
2021.  Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the
provisions of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent
therewith. Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any
particular provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Ordinances listed have been passed, but have not been incorporated in the
actual code. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
STRONGHURST VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the village board of trustees, this village code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code of
Stronghurst. This village code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the
STRONGHURST VILLAGE CODE and is hereby published by authority of the board of
trustees and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation
of the village as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this village code by title in any legal documents. (2006 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The village code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2006 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the village code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this village code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this village code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the village code. (2006 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this village code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while
in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the
village clerk when directed so to do by order of the village board of trustees.
(2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.    Ordinances Repealed And Ordinances Saved From Repeal: All general
ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this village code are
hereby repealed, except such as are included in this village code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
village; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Limitations On Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2006 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this village code or by virtue of
section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as the village code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this village code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only. (2006 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this village code. (2006 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this village code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The village board of
trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the village president and board of trustees may
be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted. (2006 Code)
   D.   Reasonable Time Or Reasonable Notice: In all cases where any provision
shall require any act to be done in a "reasonable time" or "reasonable notice
to be given" to any person, such reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to
mean such time only as may be necessary in the prompt execution of such duty or
compliance with such notice. (1993 Code p. 120 § 407-1-9)
   E.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   F.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   G.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   H.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   I.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   J.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   K.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the village of Stronghurst".
   L.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   M.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
village has been changed in the content of this village code to "title",
"chapter", "section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for
organizational and clarification purposes only. Such change to village
ordinances is not meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original
ordinances. (2006 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES: Unless otherwise indicated, the village board of trustees
of the village of Stronghurst.
   CODE: The village code of the village of Stronghurst.
   COUNTY: The county of Henderson, state of Illinois.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE: The state of Illinois.
   STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   VILLAGE: The village of Stronghurst, county of Henderson, state of Illinois.
   WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or
things to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2006 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the village code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   General Penalty Imposed: Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this
code or state statute, any person found to have been in violation of any of the
terms and provisions of this code shall be fined in an amount not to exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). No imprisonment for failure to pay such
fine, penalty or cost shall exceed six (6) months for each offense. Each day
that a violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense. A penalty
for each offense may include a requirement that the offending party perform
some reasonable public service work such as, but not limited to, picking up
litter in public parks or upon public highways or performing maintenance of
public facilities. A violation hereof may be established by a preponderance of
the evidence.
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of an
ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the state,
is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of
incarceration in a penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed
six (6) months. The matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal
procedure of the state, and the village shall be required to establish guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt.
   C.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 and 1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this village code the same as though it were a
part of each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this village code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed,
but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the
same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this village
code and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such
breach, the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2006 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this village code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the village board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on
such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Statute Administration Of Officers And Government
1-5-2: Corporate Seal
1-5-3: Ordinances
1-5-1: STATUTE ADMINISTRATION OF OFFICERS AND GOVERNMENT:
The administration of officers and government for and of the village shall be
as provided by the statutes of the state. The officer shall carry out the
duties and responsibilities required by the statutes of the state. (1993 Code
p. 29 § 401.2)
1-5-2: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Description: The corporate seal of the village shall be circular in
form and be so constructed as to impress upon paper the words, "Village of
Stronghurst, Henderson County, Ill.", in a circle surrounding the words
"incorporated Seal 1894", in the center thereof. (1993 Code p. 125 § 410.1-1)
   B.   Custody And Use: The village seal shall be and remain in the custody of
the village clerk and his successor in office, to be used by him in all cases
provided for by the ordinances of the village or the laws of the state, and in
all such other cases where, by the laws and customs of any state or nation, the
use of the corporate seal of the village becomes necessary. (1993 Code p. 125 §
410.1-2)
1-5-3: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Effect: The board of trustees shall cause all ordinances of the village
which impose any fine, penalty, imprisonment or forfeiture, or make any
appropriation, to be published within thirty (30) days after passage, in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village. An annual appropriation
ordinance adopted under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-2-9 shall take effect
upon passage, but no other ordinance described in this subsection shall take
effect until ten (10) days after it is so published; except, that an ordinance
imposing a municipal retailers' occupation tax adopted under 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1 1 , or a tourism, convention and other special
events promotion tax adopted under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-3-13, or
effecting a change in the rate thereof shall take effect on the first day of
the month next following the expiration of the thirty (30) day publication
period. However, ordinances establishing rules and regulations for the
construction of buildings or any part thereof, or for the development or
operation of camps accommodating persons in house trailers, housecars, cabins
or tents, where such rules and regulations have been previously printed in book
or pamphlet form, may, by their terms, provide for the adoption of such rules
and regulations or portions thereof by reference thereto without further
printing or publication, if not less than one copy of such rules and
regulations in book or pamphlet form has been filed in the office of the
village clerk for use and examination by the public at least thirty (30) days
prior to the adoption thereof. (1993 Code p. 119 § 407.1-1; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Validity: All ordinances and the date of publication thereof may be
proven by the certificate of the village clerk under the seal of the
corporation, and when printed in book or pamphlet form and purporting to be
published by authority of the board of trustees, the same need not be otherwise
published, and such book or pamphlet shall be received as evidence of the
passage and legal publication of such ordinance, as to dates mentioned in such
book or pamphlet, in all courts or places, without further proof. (1993 Code p.
119 § 407.1-2)
   C.   Record Of Ordinances; Publication And Notice:
      1.   All ordinances hereafter passed by the village board of trustees
shall be recorded by the village clerk in the book of ordinances and published
by posting a copy in three (3) public places in the village, or by publication
in a newspaper of general circulation in the village, as the board of trustees
may direct. The originals shall be filed in the clerk's office and the due
proof of the publication thereof made by said clerk's certificate attached
thereto, or written and attached on the face of the record of such ordinance,
or the affidavit of the printer or publisher shall be procured by the clerk and
attached, or written and attached as aforesaid. (1993 Code p. 119 § 407.1-3;
amd. 2006 Code)
      2. The village clerk shall procure a book in which he shall fasten and
keep all ordinances passed by the president and board of trustees, and when
such ordinances have been printed in a newspaper or published by posting, shall
attach his certificate thereto, and shall state concerning the same, when
passed and when published. Said book shall be, and is hereby declared to be,
the village record of ordinances. The clerk may maintain a separate book for
recording annual budgets and appropriation ordinances and tax levy ordinances.
(1993 Code p. 120 § 407.1-11)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-2-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Acting Village President
1-6-2: Meetings
1-6-3: Committees
1-6-1: ACTING VILLAGE PRESIDENT:
Whenever any power shall be vested in the village president, or he shall be
required to do any act or perform any executive function, and in case of his
being unable to perform the duties of his office by reason of temporary absence
because of an incapacity to perform official duties, it shall be the duty of
the acting president to exercise such power, or to perform such duty, act or
executive function as fully as if expressly named in the ordinances or law,
unless it shall be therein otherwise expressly provided. (1993 Code p. 120 §
407.1-9; amd. 2006 Code)
1-6-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings:
      1.   The regular meetings of the village president and board of trustees
shall be held on the first Monday of each month at the hour of seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M. at the village hall or at such other place designated by ordinance.
(1993 Code p. 29 § 401.3; amd. 2006 Code)
      2.   At all regular meetings of the president and trustees, there shall
be established a time period of twenty (20) minutes which shall be open to
visitors of the monthly meeting. Said time shall be from ten minutes past seven
o'clock (7:10) P.M. until seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M. During said time,
any person who has something to offer for the good, or criticism, or in
question concerning the village business shall be entitled to be heard. At all
other times, the discussion of the village board meeting shall be limited to
the president and trustees and officers of the village and its employees and
advisors. (1993 Code p. 10, Res., 3-7-1988)
   B.   Special Meetings:
      1.   Special meetings of the village president and board of trustees may
be called by the president at any time he may deem the same to be necessary, or
special meetings may be called by any three (3) trustees of the village.
      2.   At any special meeting, only those items stated in the purpose of
call and notice of said meeting shall be transacted by the president and
trustees. (1993 Code p. 29 § 401.4)
      3.   All special meetings shall be held at the usual meeting place, the
village hall.
      4.   In the event a special meeting is called, the call of said meeting,
stating the purpose thereof, shall be by the officer or trustee calling said
meeting with the village clerk. The clerk shall give written notice of said
meeting, together with the stated purpose thereof, to each and every village
trustee and the village president by way of United States mail, with postage
fully prepaid, not less than forty eight (48) hours prior to the hour said
meeting shall convene and in such a manner as to be received by any person
entitled thereto not less than forty eight (48) hours prior to the hour said
meeting shall convene. The clerk shall also post a copy of said notice on the
front door of the village hall at least forty eight (48) hours prior to the
hour said meeting shall convene, which notice shall state the time and place of
said meeting and the purpose of said meeting. The clerk shall file a copy of
the notice with the publisher of the "Henderson County Quill" and any other
newspaper, radio station, television station or news medium filing a request
for notices of regular or special meetings of the president and board of
trustees. (1993 Code p. 29 § 401.4; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Notice Posted On Website: The village shall post notice on its website
of all meetings of the board of trustees. Any notice of an annual schedule of
meetings shall remain on the website until a new public notice of the schedule
of regular meetings is approved. Any notice of a regular meeting that is posted
on the village website shall remain posted on the website until the regular
meeting is concluded.
   D.   Open Meetings: All meetings, except those exempted by state statute,
shall be open to the public. (2006 Code)
1-6-3: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Committees Established: The president may, with consent of the trustees
from time to time, appoint committees as follows: street and alley; water;
health; park; machinery and equipment; finance; building permit; zoning; public
safety; animal control; sanitation and any other committee whose function is
deemed necessary by the president and trustees.
   B.   Duties: The respective committees shall from time to time investigate
and supervise those departments subject to their jurisdiction and shall make
reports thereof to the president and trustees. The committees shall perform
such other duties as shall be delegated to the committee by the president and/
or the trustees. (1993 Code p. 31 § 401.10)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Village Clerk; Village Treasurer
1-7-2: Village Treasurer (Rep. by Ord. 2009-0803-2, 8-3-2009)
1-7-3: Village Superintendent
1-7-4: Compensation
1-7-5: Holidays, Vacations And Leaves
1-7-6: Social Security
1-7-7: Village Marshal
1-7-1: VILLAGE CLERK; VILLAGE TREASURER:
   A.   The position of village clerk and village treasurer shall be a combined
position;
   B.   The position will be a full time, forty (40) hour per week, Monday
through Friday employment;
   C.   The village board of trustees for the village of Stronghurst shall
determine hourly pay and the amount and type of health insurance coverage to be
provided to the employee;
   D.   The village board of trustees shall determine holidays, vacations and
leaves as it relates to section
1-7-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-0803-2, 8-3-2009)
1-7-2: VILLAGE TREASURER:
(Rep. by Ord. 2009-0803-2, 8-3-2009)
1-7-3: VILLAGE SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Position Established; Compensation: The president and board of trustees
shall employ from time to time, and for a term to be designated by said
president and board of trustees, some suitable person who shall act as
superintendent of the village. Such person employed shall receive a
compensation to be determined from time to time by the president and board of
trustees.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Maintenance Of Streets And Waterworks: It shall be the duty of the
superintendent to maintain the streets and alleys and the waterworks of the
village as directed by the president and board of trustees.
      2.   Record Of Defects: The superintendent shall note all defects in the
streets and alleys and waterworks of the village and shall report the same
without delay to the president and board of trustees. (1993 Code p. 31 § 401.8)
      3.   Additional Waterworks Duties:
         a.   The superintendent has complete control of all service or water
pipes in the streets, alleys and public places in the village and from the
water mains to all meters; and the making of all connections between water
mains and meters for private consumers and public use.
         b.   All applications for water supply shall be made to the
superintendent, and he shall issue all permits for all connections to the water
mains of the village. (1993 Code p. 62 § 403.4-3)
         c.   The superintendent shall have charge and control of all hydrants,
valves, machinery and other parts of the village water system and shall keep in
well bound books accurate and complete records of all water mains now or
hereafter laid with their location, dimensions, connections, hydrants, valves
and cocks. He shall provide and keep a record of the names of all consumers,
with a description of the premises, showing the date of installation of the
water meter, with monthly or bimonthly meter readings and water rates of each
consumer, and make a monthly or bimonthly report of meter readings to the
village board. (1993 Code p. 62 § 403.4-3; amd. 2006 Code)
         d.   The superintendent shall examine all accounts and claims and
submit the same to the village board with such explanation as to enable them to
act advisedly thereon.
         e.   The Superintendent shall discharge all duties imposed upon him by
this Code or any ordinance of the Village and by the laws of the State, and
shall discharge such other duties as may be required of him by the Water
Committee of the Village Board of Trustees.
   C.   Open Records: All the books and records of the Office of the
Superintendent shall be open at all times to the inspection of the Village
President, the Board of Trustees or any member thereof. (1993 Code p. 62 §
403.4-3)
1-7-4: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of Village officers shall be as follows:
 
President $55.00 per month
Trustees  65.00 per month
 
(Ord., 3-3-1997; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 2009-0803-2, 8-3-2009; Ord. 2018-11-05-1,
11-5-2018, eff. 5-2019)
Effective May 2021, the elected officials of the Village of Stronghurst shall
only be paid his/her monthly salary if he/she attends the regularly scheduled
meeting of the Board of Trustees in that month. (Ord. 2018-11-05-2, 11-5-2018)
An additional twenty dollars ($20.00) compensation shall be paid to each and
every Trustee attending committee meetings that are properly set with the
agreement of the Village President and Village Board. (Ord. 2010-1206, 12-6-
2010)
1-7-5: HOLIDAYS, VACATIONS AND LEAVES:
   A.   Holidays: The employees of the Village shall be granted paid holidays
on the following occasions: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor
Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, one-half (1/2) day before Christmas and
one-half (1/2) day before New Year's; said dates to be determined by Illinois
Compiled Statutes from time to time.
   B.   Bereavement Leave: Each employee shall be entitled to three (3) days'
time off with pay at the time of the death of a member of the immediate family
of said employee to include the death of a mother, father, child, brother,
sister, mother-in-law, father- in-law, or grandparents. (1993 Code p. 19 Ord.
486, 2-4-1985)
   C.   Sick Leave And Personal Leave: Each employee shall be entitled to five
(5) days' sick leave and five (5) days' personal leave. Sick days can carry
over for one year. (1993 Code p. 19 Ord. 486, 2-4-1985; amd. 2006 Code)
   D.   Vacations: Each employee shall be entitled to one week vacation upon
completion of one year of continuous employment; two (2) weeks of vacation upon
completion of two (2) years of employment; and three (3) weeks' vacation upon
completion of ten (10) years of continuous employment. (1993 Code p. 19 Ord.
486, 2-4-1985)
   E.   Credits: Any full time employee utilizing holidays, vacation days,
casual days or sick leave shall receive as a credit the hours so utilized,
which shall be applied to that employee's credit toward the forty (40) hour
work week of that employee. (Ord. 2010-0802, 8-2-2010)
1-7-6: SOCIAL SECURITY:
   A.   Policy And Purpose: It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose
of the Village to extend to the eligible employees thereof, effective as of
January 1, 1951, the benefits of the Federal old age and survivors insurance
system as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereto.
In pursuance of said policy, and for that purpose, the Village President shall
take such action as may be required by applicable State or Federal laws or
regulations. (1993 Code p. 30 § 401.5)
   B.   Agreement With State: The Village President is hereby authorized and
directed to execute an agreement with the State employee retirement system of
the State (Social Security Division) to secure coverage of eligible employees
as provided in subsection A of this section. (1993 Code p. 30 § 401.5; amd.
2006 Code)
   C.   Withholdings: Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the
purpose provided in subsection A of this section are hereby authorized to be
made in the amounts and at such times as are designated by State laws or
regulations.
   D.   Contributions: Employer contributions and administrative expense shall
be paid to the State agency in accordance with applicable State laws and
regulations from amounts appropriated for such purposes. (1993 Code p. 30 §
401.5)
   E.   Records And Reports: The Village Clerk shall maintain such records and
submit such reports as may be required by applicable State and Federal laws or
regulations. (1993 Code p. 30 § 401.5; amd. 2006 Code)
1-7-7: VILLAGE MARSHAL:
   A.   The position of "Village Marshal" for the Village of Stronghurst,
Henderson County, Illinois, is hereby established;
   B.   The Village Board of Trustees, from time to time hereafter, may amend
or modify the hours, compensation, and other responsibilities and duties for
the Village Marshal program. (Ord. 2009-0803, 8-3-2009)
CHAPTER 8
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-8-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-8-2: Definitions
1-8-3: Interpretation
1-8-4: Prohibited Acts
1-8-5: Amendments
1-8-6: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-8-7: Penalties
1-8-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/5-15 and 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 430/10-10 through 430/10-40 of the state officials and
employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq.,
(hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this chapter) are hereby adopted by
reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the village to
the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5. (2006 Code)
1-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (2006 Code)
1-8-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a). (2006 Code)
1-8-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the village under the act is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act, by any officer or employee of the village, is hereby
prohibited. (2006 Code)
1-8-5: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by the president and board of trustees. (2006
Code)
1-8-6: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the president and board of trustees if the act is found unconstitutional by the
Illinois supreme court.
   B.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act, as adopted by
this chapter, shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(2006 Code)
1-8-7: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 9
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
1-9-1: Declaration Of Policy
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Prohibited Acts
1-9-4: Penalty
1-9-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   A.   In furthering the policy of the state of Illinois, as expressed in its
constitution and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all the inhabitants of the village may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the village of Stronghurst, Illinois, to assure
equal opportunity to all residents, regardless of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical disability to live in
decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   B.   It is the policy of the village of Stronghurst that no owner, lessee,
sublessee, assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation
having the right to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing
accommodation and/or real property within the village, or any agent of these
shall refuse to sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any
person or group of persons such housing accommodations and/or real property
because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability of such person or persons or discriminate against any person or
persons because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed or disability in the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or
lease of any housing accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of
facilities and/or services in connection therewith.
   C.   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply, lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities. (Ord. 2007-
0904, 9-4-2007)
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms shall have the meanings as described in this section and as used in this
chapter:
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL, STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS: Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE OR DISCRIMINATION: Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any person, institution or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
   OWNER: Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY: Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the village of Stronghurst,
Illinois. (Ord. 2007-0904, 9-4-2007)
1-9-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee, real
estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the financial
institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real estate
broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial institution
dealing with housing or real property in the village of Stronghurst, Illinois:
   A.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the price,
terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale, rental,
lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the
village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith.
   B.   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any form
of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed or disability of any person.
   C.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing loans,
accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the
purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   D.   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
   E.   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of persons in the neighborhood.
   F.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or the
anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/or
real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or
listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located.
   G.   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
   H.   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant. (Ord. 2007-0904, 9-4-2007)
1-9-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section shall in no way
abrogate or impair the right of the village of Stronghurst, Illinois, to
specifically enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2007-0904, 9-4-2007)
TITLE 2
TAXATION AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 1
TAX LEVY AND ASSESSMENT
SECTION:
2-1-1: Tax Levied And Assessed
2-1-2: Certified Document To County; Rate Determined
2-1-3: Collection And Enforcement Of Tax By State
2-1-4: Applicability Of Tax
2-1-1: TAX LEVIED AND ASSESSED:
On or before the last Tuesday in December in each year, the village board of
trustees shall ascertain the total amount of appropriations legally made or
budgeted for and any amount deemed necessary to defray additional expenses and
liabilities for all corporate purposes to be provided for by the tax levy of
that year. Then, by an ordinance specifying in detail in the manner authorized
for the annual appropriation ordinance or budget of the village, the purposes
for which the appropriations, budgeting or such additional amounts deemed
necessary have been made and the amount assignable for each purpose
respectively, the village board of trustees shall levy upon all property
subject to taxation within the village as that property is assessed and
equalized for state and county purposes for the current year. (1993 Code p. 121
§ 409.1-1; amd. 2006 Code)
2-1-2: CERTIFIED DOCUMENT TO COUNTY; RATE DETERMINED:
A certified copy of the ordinance imposing the village tax as aforesaid shall
be filed annually, on or before the last Tuesday in December, with the county
clerk, whose duty it shall be to ascertain the rate percent which, upon the
total valuation of all property subject to taxation within the village, as the
same is assessed and equalized for state and county purposes, will produce a
net amount not less than the amount so directed to be levied and  assessed, and
it shall be the duty of the county clerk to extend such tax in a separate
column upon the book of the collector of state and county taxes within the
village. (1993 Code p. 121 § 409.1-2; amd. 2006 Code)
2-1-3: COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT OF TAX BY STATE:
The tax so assessed shall be collected and enforced in the same manner and by
the same officers as the state and county taxes and shall be paid over by the
officer collecting the same to the village treasurer. (1993 Code p. 121 §
409.1-3)
2-1-4: APPLICABILITY OF TAX:
All taxes levied or assessed by the village, except special assessments for
local improvements, shall be uniform on all taxable property and persons within
the limits of the village, and no property shall be exempt therefrom other than
such property as may be exempt from taxation under the constitution and general
laws of the state. (1993 Code p. 121 § 409.1-4)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
2-2-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
2-2-3: Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
2-2-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Exemptions: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons
engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the
village at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales
made in the course of such business while this section is in effect, in
accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code; except, that the tax on the sale of farm
machinery and equipment shall be exempt from this tax. (1993 Code p. 17 Ord.
409.3A, 9-8-1982; amd. 1993 Code p. 18 Ord., 7-6-1983)
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the
village shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report
to the state department of revenue required by section 3 of "an act in relation
to a tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property to purchasers for use or consumption" approved June 28, 1933, as
amended 1 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding
month. (1993 Code p. 123 § 409.3-1)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2-2-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
village in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by said
servicemen either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of
real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the
provisions of section
9-11-5 of the Illinois municipal code; except, that the tax on the sale of farm
machinery and equipment shall be exempt from this tax. (1993 Code p. 124 §
409.4-1; amd. 1993 Code p. 18 Ord., 7-6-1983)
   B.   Report Required: Every supplier or serviceman required to account for
municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of the village shall file, on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by section 9 of the "service occupation tax act"
1 , approved July 10, 1961, as amended.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (1993 Code
p. 124 § 409.4-1)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
2-2-3: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES:
   A.   Tax Imposed: All corporations, companies or associations, not
incorporated under the laws of the state, and which are engaged in effecting
fire insurance within the village, shall pay to the village treasurer, for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the fire department thereof, two percent (2%)
of the gross receipts of the premiums on fire insurance effected or agreed to
be effected in the village, by or with such corporation, company or
association. (1993 Code p. 122 § 409.2-1)
   B.   Agent's Account: Every person who shall act in the village for or on
behalf of such corporation, company or association shall, on or before July 15
of each and every year, render to the village a full, true and just account,
verified by his oath, of all the premiums which, during the year ending on the
July 1 preceding such report, shall have been received by him, or any other
person for him in behalf of such corporation, company or association, and shall
specify in such report the amount received for fire insurance. (1993 Code p.
122 § 409.2-2)
   C.   Payment: Such agent shall pay to the village treasurer, at the time of
rendering the above mentioned report, the amount established in subsection A of
this section. The corporations, companies or associations represented by such
agent are severally chargeable by virtue of this section. (1993 Code p. 122 §
409.2-2; amd. 2006 Code)
   D.   Late Reports And Payments: If such account is not rendered on or before
the day mentioned herein for that purpose, or if the said tax shall remain
unpaid after that day, it shall be unlawful for any corporation, company or
association so in default to transact any business in the village until the
said requisition shall have been fully complied with, but this subsection shall
not relieve any company, corporation or association from the payment of any
risk that may be taken in violation thereof. (1993 Code p. 122 § 409.2-2)
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of the section shall be
subject to indictment under the laws of the state made and provided for such
breach. (1993 Code p. 122 § 409.2-3)
CHAPTER 3
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Short Title
2-3-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
2-3-3: Definitions
2-3-4: Notice Requirements
2-3-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
2-3-6: Application Of Tax Payments
2-3-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
2-3-8: Audit Procedure
2-3-9: Appeals
2-3-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
2-3-11: Installment Contracts
2-3-12: Statute Of Limitations
2-3-13: Voluntary Disclosure
2-3-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
2-3-15: Review Of Liens
2-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. TRO-1, 2-5-2001)
2-3-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village
procedures in connection with all of the village locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This chapter shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the village tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. TRO-1,
2-5-2001)
2-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
   ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act" 1 .
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village president and board of trustees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village president is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
"local tax administrator" to act in the "local tax administrator's" stead. The
"local tax administrator" shall have the authority to implement the terms of
this chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such
authority by the "local tax administrator" shall not be inconsistent with this
chapter and the act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village, not an agency or department
of the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under
the property tax code 1 or fees collected by the village other than
infrastructure maintenance fees.
   NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed, and with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE: The village of Stronghurst, Illinois. (Ord. TRO-1, 2-5-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
1 1. See
  Chapter 1 of this title.
2-3-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator by
United States registered or certified mail. (Ord. TRO-1, 2-5-2001; amd. 2006
Code)
2-3-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date; or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord. TRO-1, 2-5-2001)
2-3-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first, to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second,
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third, to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. TRO-1, 2-5-2001)
2-3-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The village shall not refund or credit any
taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the
event that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be four (4) or less years after the end of the calendar
year in which payment in error was made. The village shall not grant a credit
or refund of locally imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties to a
person who has not paid the amounts directly to the village.
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest, and penalties overpaid, and
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for a refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing a refund check or the
grant of a credit. (Ord. TRO-1, 2-5-2001)
2-3-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice of requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Information Required: Each notice shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
thirty (30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agree to some other convenient time. In the
event the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question,
the taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available his books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
(or tax collector) fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within
the time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination
and assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best
estimate of the taxpayer's liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30)
days of the village determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. TRO-1, 2-5-2001)
2-3-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator's
issuance of a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: The taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written
protest and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date
convenient to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill, due and
owing, without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the date of the tax, the local tax administrator
may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and petition for
hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest and petition
for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days after the
expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      3.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. TRO-1, 2-5-2001)
2-3-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to ten percent (10%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty, if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (Ord. TRO-1, 2-
5-2001)
2-3-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) working day
period or fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment
contract with the local tax administrator, the installment contract shall be
canceled without further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. TRO-1, 2-5-2001)
2-3-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later. (Ord. TRO-1, 2-5-2001)
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was due or end of
the calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed,
whichever occurs later.
   D.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. TRO-1, 2-5-2001; amd. 2006 Code)
2-3-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month for all periods prior to
the filing of the application, but not more than four (4) years before the date
of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due under
this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may
not be liable for any additional tax interest, or penalty for any period before
the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. TRO-1, 2-5-2001;
amd. 2006 Code)
2-3-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet will satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (Ord. TRO-1, 2-5-2001)
2-3-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
TRO-1, 2-5-2001)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applications
3-1-2: Persons Subject To License
3-1-3: Forms
3-1-4: Signatures
3-1-5: Inspections Or Investigations
3-1-6: Term Of License
3-1-7: Building And Premises
3-1-8: Change Of Location
3-1-9: Nuisances
3-1-10: Posting Of License
3-1-11: Revocation Of License Or Permit; Hearing
3-1-12: Appeal Procedure
3-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code shall be made
in writing to the village clerk, unless otherwise specifically provided by law.
Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
required by the issuing official. (2006 Code)
3-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if, by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the village. (2006 Code)
3-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the village clerk. (2006 Code)
3-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the mayor and the
village clerk in absence of any provision to the contrary. (2006 Code)
3-1-5: INSPECTIONS OR INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
village necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the village clerk shall refer such application to the proper
officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time
of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation
or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten
(10) days after receiving the application or a copy thereof. For the protection
of health, the county building inspector shall make or cause to be made any
such inspections relative to the construction of buildings or other structures.
All other investigations, except where otherwise provided, shall be made by the
appropriate law enforcement official for the village or by some other officer
designated by the village president. (2006 Code)
3-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the calendar year of the
village, where no provision to the contrary is made. (2006 Code)
3-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the village. (2006 Code)
3-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation or of any permitted act may be changed, provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the village clerk; and further provided,
the building requirements of this code are complied with. (2006 Code)
3-1-9: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
nuisance in fact. (2006 Code)
3-1-10: POSTING OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used
for such business at all times. (2006 Code)
3-1-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; HEARING:
Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be revoked by  the president and
board of trustees during the life of such license or permit for the violation
by the licensee or permittee of any provision relating to the license or
permit, the subject of the license or permit, or the premises occupied; such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. The president and board of
trustees shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the
closing of the premises, and the suspension of any business license or permit
for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the village officials have so
acted, the village president shall call a hearing for the purpose of
determining whether or not the license or permit should be revoked.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee or permittee by certified mail at his last known address or personally
served at least five (5) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The village president shall preside and shall render the decision
and recommendation.
   D.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the village, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the
president and board of trustees after notice and hearing as provided in
subsections B and C of this section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or state law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the village.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized village officer or employee while in the performance of
his duties in making such inspections, as provided in this code. (2006 Code)
3-1-12: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the village
to issue a license or permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall
have the right to appeal the village decision to the board of trustees. Such
appeal shall be requested by submitting a written request to the village
president within five (5) days of the action of the village which is appealed.
   B.   Village Board Consideration: The village board of trustees shall
consider the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time the
applicant shall be entitled to present his appeal orally or in writing. The
village board of trustees shall act on the appeal within seven (7) days of the
hearing and shall either uphold the action of the village or shall direct the
issuance of a license or permit which the village has denied or the reissuance
of a license or permit which the village had revoked. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License And Compliance Required
3-2-3: Application For License; Investigation
3-2-4: License Fee
3-2-5: Liability Insurance
3-2-6: Term Of License; Nontransferability
3-2-7: License And Capacity To Be Posted
3-2-8: Restrooms
3-2-9: Persons On Duty
3-2-10: Conduct Of Business
3-2-11: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-2-12: Requirements For Specific Amusement Establishments
3-2-13: Additional Requirements
3-2-14: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   BILLIARD CENTER: A place of amusement or entertainment in which one or more
persons are invited to play and participate in the game of billiards, including
pocket table billiards or snooker table billiards, or wherein one or more pool
tables or billiard tables are kept, used or operated for profit or in the
course of a business enterprise.
   BOWLING ALLEY: A place of amusement or entertainment in which one or more
persons are invited to play and participate in the game of bowling or wherein
one or more bowling lanes are used or operated for profit or in the course of a
business enterprise.
   GAME ROOM: A place of amusement or entertainment in which three (3) or more
mechanical amusement devices are kept or maintained for the use of the public,
operated for a profit or in the course of a business enterprise.
   GOLF COURSE: A place of amusement or entertainment in which one or more
persons are invited to play and participate: a) in the game of golf; b) upon a
driving range; or c) on one or more putting greens, and for which an admission
price is charged.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any musical device, pinball machine, novelty
machine, skill machine, pool machine, bowling machine or similar machine which
operates or may be operated for use as a game of skill, amusement or play and
for which a charge is made, whether coin operated, token operated, ticket
operated, time operated, operated by control of an operator or operated as an
enticement for the business enterprise.
   OPERATOR: Any person, firm or corporation who keeps or allows billiard or
pool tables to be kept on premises owned by him or under his control where the
same may be played by members of the public legally upon such premises upon
payment of the charge therefor.
   OWNER: Any person, firm or corporation who owns and places billiard or pool
tables by whatever arrangements on the operator's premises.
   PUBLIC SKATING RINK: Any room, place or space in which skating, either on
roller skates or ice skates, is carried on and to which admission can be had by
the public by payment, either directly or indirectly, of a fee, or by payment
of a charge for any service auxiliary to skating, or by purchase, possession or
presentation of a ticket or token; but the term "skating" shall not be held to
apply to exhibitions or performances in which the persons paying for admission
do not participate.
   THEATER: Any room, place or space for the showing of motion pictures, plays,
musicals, concerts or other entertainments to which admission can be had by the
public by payment, either directly or indirectly, of an admission price. (2006
Code)
3-2-2: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the following acts in the
village without having first obtained an amusement license:
      1.   Operate a theater.
      2.   Operate a billiard center.
      3.   Operate a bowling alley or golf course.
      4.   Own, operate, maintain, sell or keep for operation a mechanical
amusement device.
      5.   Conduct or operate a public skating rink.
      6.   Operate a miniature golf course.
   B.   Compliance With Provisions: The licensee, agent or employee shall
comply with the provisions of this code. (2006 Code)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION:
   A.   All applications for an amusement license shall conform to the
following requirements:
      1.   Be made in writing to the village clerk, verified by the applicant
and accompanied by the license fee required.
      2.   State the name, age and address of the applicant and, if the
applicant is a corporation, the name of its officers and directors.
      3.   State the location of the place where the amusement device or
facility is to be located and operated.
      4.   State the number of amusement devices, alleys, tables, greens,
screens, etc., as may be applicable to the particular business to be conducted.
      5.   Include a detailed scale layout of the operation, showing the
location of the greens, tables, alleys, screens, lighting, fences, buildings,
structures and other equipment.
      6.   State the name(s) of the manager(s) hired to supervise the
particular operation.
      7.   Include such other and further information as may be required by the
village clerk.
   B.   The application for a license or renewal of a license shall be made
upon forms furnished by the village clerk and shall include the date and place
of conviction of any person named therein for any crime other than minor
traffic violations committed during the period of ten (10) years prior to the
date of application, including a statement of the crime of which such person
was convicted.
   C.   The appropriate law enforcement official for the village shall
investigate any and all applications for a license and shall submit a report to
the village. (2006 Code)
3-2-4: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Fee Established; Exemptions: The annual fee for an amusement license
shall be ten dollars ($10.00). The fee provided for in this section may be
waived upon application to the board of trustees in the case of limited
performances or engagements by a nonprofit organization.
   B.   Fee Not Transferable Or Prorated: The fee provided for herein is not
transferable, nor may it be prorated; except, that the fee for theaters,
billiard tables and amusement devices shall be paid for the number of screens,
tables or machines available for use, and the licenses are valid for different
tables or machines as may be replaced or changed from time to time during the
year; provided, that the license fee is paid for the maximum number of machines
or tables used on the applicant's premises at any one time. (2006 Code)
3-2-5: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Each licensee shall keep in force liability insurance of a minimum of seven
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000.00) combined single limit liability
coverage for injury to or death of any one person or persons or damage/
destruction of property in any one accident by a corporation or corporations
authorized to write insurance in the state during the license year. It shall
appear on such policy that the village shall be notified, in writing, at least
thirty (30) days prior to the cancellation of such policy of insurance. (2006
Code)
3-2-6: TERM OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
Each license shall expire on December 31 next after its issuance and shall not
be transferable from one person to another. (2006 Code)
3-2-7: LICENSE AND CAPACITY TO BE POSTED:
Every entertainment license shall be conspicuously posted about the place for
which the license is issued and shall be exhibited to any person upon request.
All amusement facilities shall post the capacity limitation for their premises
in a conspicuous place. (2006 Code)
3-2-8: RESTROOMS:
Separate restroom facilities for each gender shall be supplied at any premises
licensed under this chapter. Each restroom shall be used by one person at a
time, using self-locking doors. (2006 Code)
3-2-9: PERSONS ON DUTY:
There shall be on duty at all times that the operation of a billiard center,
bowling alley, golf course, mechanical or electronic amusement devices, public
skating rink, theater or game room is open to the public an adult operator or
manager who understands the operation of all equipment used on the premises. It
shall be the duty of the licensee and his manager to remain on the premises at
all times and enforce the provisions of subsection
3-2-10A of this chapter. (2006 Code)
3-2-10: CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Code Of Conduct:
      1.   The licensee, under this chapter, shall follow and enforce the
following code of conduct for the licensed premises:
         a.   Truants from school shall not be permitted to enter or remain on
the premises.
         b.   No person violating any curfew law or ordinance shall be
permitted to enter or remain on the licensed premises.
         c.   No person soliciting to vice or any other unlawful purpose shall
be permitted to enter or remain on the licensed premises.
         d.   No person selling, transferring, giving, using or in possession
of any "controlled substance", as defined by Illinois Compiled Statutes, shall
be permitted to enter or remain on the premises or remain in the area directly
adjacent to the premises.
         e.   No person shall be permitted to harass, threaten or annoy any
persons.
         f.   No person shall loiter inside or outside a billiard center.
Persons not engaging in billiard or pool play or waiting their turn to play
shall be prohibited from the billiard center except in cases of an owner
sanctioned tournament or contest. Persons shall be prohibited from loitering on
the property outside the billiard center, including the parking lot.
      2.   The licensee under this chapter shall post in plain view a copy of
the above rules of conduct as well as a copy of the house rules and hours of
operation in a minimum of one inch (1") letters.
   B.   Maintenance Of Order: It shall be the responsibility of the licensee
under this chapter to maintain order on the licensed premises at all times.
(2006 Code)
3-2-11: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Alcoholic Beverages On Licensed Premises: No person shall, in any
licensed premises or in any anteroom, corridor, cloakroom, hallway or dressing
room thereof or in any room connecting therewith, drink any alcoholic
beverages; nor shall any licensee hereunder suffer or permit any person to
drink any alcoholic beverages in or on any licensed premises over which such
licensee has control.
   B.   Gambling In Billiard Centers:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any licensed
billiard center to permit the same to be used for gambling or for the making of
bets or wagers.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the licensee or the owner or operator of a
billiard center to give any money, token, merchandise or any other thing of
value or any reward or prize in lieu of free games.
      3.   No person shall keep, maintain, sell or permit to be operated in his
billiard center any billiard table, pool table or other equipment which has
been converted into an automatic payoff device which shall discharge coins,
checks or other tokens to the operator or player of such table or equipment. No
person shall convert any billiard table, pool table or other equipment into an
automatic payoff device.
      4.   Any billiard or pool table which has been utilized in violation of
this subsection may be seized and destroyed in compliance with the provisions
of the state statutes relating to gambling devices. (2006 Code)
3-2-12: REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC AMUSEMENT ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Skating Rinks, Billiard Centers, Bowling Alleys And Amusement Centers:
      1.   Lighting: Every skating rink, billiard center, bowling alley and
place having mechanical amusement devices shall be illuminated while in public
use and operation thereof while the lights are extinguished or turned so low as
to not give proper vision is hereby prohibited.
      2.   Open View: The operations of a skating rink, billiard center,
bowling alley and premises having mechanical amusement devices shall at all
times be conducted in open view of the public. Such amusements shall not be
enclosed from the public in private rooms.
      3.   Hours Of Operation For Billiard Centers; Minors:
         a.   A billiard center shall be closed by one o'clock (1:00) A.M. each
night and may not be open until nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on weekdays and
Saturdays and shall be closed on Sundays.
         b.   No one under the age of sixteen (16) shall be permitted on the
premises of a billiard center after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. except when
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian; no one under the age of eighteen
(18) shall be permitted on the premises of a billiard center after twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight except when accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   B.   Theaters:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to show or exhibit in a public
place or in a place to which the public is admitted any motion picture, whether
an admission is charged or not, without exhibiting a classification notice
therefor as provided in this subsection. The classification notice required in
this subsection shall designate the rating applied to the motion picture to be
exhibited. Such classification notice shall contain one of the ratings used by
the Motion Picture Association of America, Inc.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to show or exhibit or cause to
be shown or exhibited to any person under the age of seventeen (17) any picture
designated R unless accompanied by a parent or adult guardian. It shall be
unlawful for any person to show or exhibit or cause to be shown or exhibited to
any person under the age of seventeen (17) any picture designated X.
      3.   Any person who admits a person not qualified to view a motion
picture under the provisions of this subsection to a performance of a picture
designated R or X shall be presumed to have violated the provisions of this
subsection. Such prima facie case of violation may be rebutted by a showing
that the motion picture in question has been improperly classified.
      4.   The rating provided by this subsection shall be that imposed upon
such motion picture by the Motion Picture Association of America, Inc., if the
motion picture has been classified by that organization. In the event no
classification has been imposed by such motion picture organization, the person
or organization showing or exhibiting such motion picture shall be responsible
for designating the classification in accordance with standards prescribed by
the Motion Picture Association of America, Inc., and shall restrict admission
to persons under the age of seventeen (17) in accordance with the standards set
forth in the ratings as provided in this subsection.
      5.   The notice of classification provided for in this subsection shall
be posted at or near the entrance of the theater, hall, room or place where any
motion picture is being exhibited, at such a place and in such a position that
it may easily be read by any person entering such theater, hall, room or place,
at any time when any such motion picture is being exhibited. Film ratings shall
be included in all advertising.
      6.   When motion pictures having a different rating are being shown
together as double or triple features, they shall all be assigned the rating of
the picture carrying the most restrictive rating.
      7.   No licensee shall display on the exterior of an indoor theater or
show or exhibit at any drive-in theater in such a manner that passersby view or
are likely to view any picture, photograph, drawing or similar visual
representation or image of a person or portion of the human body which depicts
sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sadomasochistic abuse. (2006 Code)
3-2-13: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
The village may impose other reasonable restrictions or conditions as it deems
necessary to provide for public health, safety, and welfare. (2006 Code)
3-2-14: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
All licenses granted hereunder shall be revocable for cause at any time. Said
licenses may be suspended for such period as the board of trustees may
prescribe or may be revoked by the board of trustees, and such revocation or
suspension shall be made on reasonable hearing prescribed by the board of
trustees. "Cause" shall include any violations of this chapter. If there shall
be two (2) convictions for violations of this chapter, whether such violations
are the same or different provisions of this chapter, the second such
conviction shall be cause for revocation of the license after hearing
prescribed by the board of trustees. No refund fee shall be paid on revocation.
(2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Certificate Of Registration Required
3-3-3: Application For Certificate
3-3-4: Registration Fee
3-3-5: Time Limit On Soliciting
3-3-6: Uninvited Soliciting
3-3-7: Duty To Leave Premises
3-3-8: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words, as used herein, shall be
construed to have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Means and includes any person who has obtained a valid
certificate of registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is
in the possession of the solicitor on his person while engaged in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE: Means and includes every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building or structure.
   SOLICITING: Shall mean and include one or more of the following activities:
   A. Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
foodstuffs, and services of any kind, character or description whatever, for
any kind of consideration whatever; or
   B. Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character; or
   C. Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
   D. Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any other
valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation, or project. (1993 Code p. 49 Ord.
402.1-57)
3-3-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every person desiring to engage in "soliciting", as defined in section
3-3-1 of this chapter, from persons in residences within the village, is hereby
required to make written application for a certificate of registration as
hereinafter provided. (1993 Code p. 49 Ord. 402.1-57)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE:
Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a form
provided by the village and filed with the village clerk. The applicant shall
truthfully state in full the following information requested on the
application:
   A.   Name and address of present place of residence and length of residence
at such address; also business address, if other than residence address; also
social security number.
   B.   Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years, if other
than present address.
   C.   Physical description of the applicant.
   D.   Name and address of the person, firm, corporation or association for
which the applicant is employed or represents, and the length of time of such
employment or representation.
   E.   Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years, if other
than the present employer.
   F.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of the
soliciting in which the applicant will engage.
   G.   Period of time for which the certificate is applied.
   H.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application for
certificate under this chapter, if any.
   I.   Has certificate of registration issued to the applicant under this
chapter ever been revoked?
   J.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, or the ordinance of any other Illinois municipality
regulating soliciting?
   K.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a felony
under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state or federal law of
the United States?
   L.   Such additional information as the village may deem necessary to
process the application. (1993 Code p. 50 Ord. 402.1-57; amd. 2006 Code)
3-3-4: REGISTRATION FEE:
There shall be assessed a fifteen dollar ($15.00) registration fee for all
solicitors to pay prior to granting them the authority to solicit in the
village. (1993 Code p. 48 Ord., 3-3-1985)
3-3-5: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting", as
defined in section
3-3-1 of this chapter, prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M. of any weekday, or at any time on a Saturday or Sunday or on a
state or national holiday. (1993 Code p. 51 Ord. 402.1-57; amd. 2006 Code)
3-3-6: UNINVITED SOLICITING:
   A.   Prohibited: It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a
nuisance for any person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or
near any door or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the
attention of the occupant of such residence for the purpose of securing an
audience with the occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting", as defined in
section
3-3-1 of this chapter, in defiance of the notice provided in this section.
   B.   Notice Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon
any property of another in the village after receiving, immediately prior to
such entry, notice from the owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden, or
to remain upon the property of another after receiving notice from the owner or
occupant to depart. A person shall be deemed to have received notice from the
owner or occupant within the meaning of this section if he has been notified
personally, either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice
forbidding such entry has been conspicuously posted at the main entrance to
said property or the forbidden part thereof. The owner or occupant of any
residence who desires to forbid trespasses by solicitors may attach or exhibit
upon or near the main front door, and the main rear or side door (if any, and
if to be protected), a card or plaque stating such of the following as may be
appropriate, in letters at least one-third inch (1/3") in height:
   Solicitors Forbidden
   or
   Solicitors Forbidden Unless
   Registered With The Village
   C.   Violations: Any person soliciting or peddling who is forbidden entry by
a notice given in compliance with this section shall be deemed guilty of
remaining on the property after receiving notice to depart if he shall ring the
doorbell or knock or create any sound calculated to attract the attention of
the occupant.
   D.   Exemptions: Notices exhibited pursuant to this section shall not be
deemed applicable to and shall not prevent access to residential property by a
solicitor who has received prior invitation, written or oral, from the owner or
occupant thereof. (1993 Code p. 51 Ord. 402.1-57; amd. 2006 Code)
3-3-7: DUTY TO LEAVE PREMISES:
Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited or not,
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do
so by the occupant. (1993 Code p. 51 Ord. 402.1-57)
3-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1993 Code p. 51 Ord. 402.1-57; amd. 2006
Code)
CHAPTER 4
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Acceptance Of Regulations
3-4-3: License Required
3-4-4: Additional Licenses Required
3-4-5: Application; Procedure; Contents
3-4-6: Persons Eligible For License
3-4-7: Classification Of Licenses And Fees
3-4-8: Selling Without License
3-4-9: Restriction On Number, Classification
3-4-10: License Periods
3-4-11: Disposition Of Fees
3-4-12: Records Of Licenses
3-4-13: Transferability Of Licenses
3-4-14: Sanitary Requirements
3-4-15: Hours, Days Of Sale
3-4-16: Visibility Of Interior
3-4-17: Enforcement Of Visibility, Lighting Requirements
3-4-18: Sales To Minors, Certain Persons
3-4-19: Sale, Delivery In Village Buildings
3-4-20: Employing Minors
3-4-21: Identification, Proof Of Age
3-4-22: Political Campaign Contributions
3-4-23: Owner Responsible
3-4-24: Managers
3-4-25: Liability Of Licensee
3-4-26: Public View, Public Place
3-4-27: Advertising
3-4-28: Annual Proof Of Sales
3-4-29: Gambling; Video Gaming
3-4-30: Revocation; Power Of Liquor Commissioner
3-4-31: Penalties
3-4-32: Reporting
3-4-33: Conduct Within Establishment
3-4-34: License Issued
3-4-35: Insurance
3-4-36: Special Events
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: For the purpose of construing this chapter, the term
"alcoholic liquor" shall include the four (4) varieties of liquor, namely:
"alcohol", "spirits", "wine", "beer" and every liquor or colloid, patented or
not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer and capable of being consumed
as a beverage by a human being, as the same are now defined by the Illinois
Liquor Control Law, as amended and now in force, together with all regulations
lawfully adopted and promulgated in the application and administration of said
law.
   SELL AT RETAIL OR SALE AT RETAIL: The phrase "sell at retail" or "sale at
retail" shall refer to sales to a consumer, and shall not refer to sales for
the purpose of resale in any form; the word person shall include, and be
construed to mean, any person, firm, co-partnership, club or association; the
word licensee shall include the principal, proprietor, agent, servant or
employee acting for and on behalf of said licensee.
All words and phrases used in this chapter which are defined in 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes, as amended, shall have the meanings according to such words
and phrases in said statute. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-2: ACCEPTANCE OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Any person who accepts any alcoholic liquor license issued under this
chapter hereby accepts and agrees to comply with all of the terms and
conditions of this chapter and all other applicable provisions of this Code.
(Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail within the
Village any alcoholic liquor without first having obtained a retail dealer's
license for each location, place or premises where alcoholic liquor is sold or
offered for sale. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-4: ADDITIONAL LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   The issuance of any license under this chapter shall not relieve the
holder thereof from acquiring other licenses and paying any fees that may be
required by this Village for the sale or distribution of products or the
performance of any other service; provided, however, holders of liquor licenses
may without further licenses or fees serve soft drinks incident to their
principal purpose. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-5: APPLICATION; PROCEDURE; CONTENTS:
   A.   Applications:
      1.   An application for a Village retailer's license for the sale of
alcoholic liquor shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk who shall
forward the application to the President, as the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, for such action as the President may see fit to take pursuant to
the law of this State and the provisions of this Code. The application must be
signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent
thereof, if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and should
contain the following information and statements:
         a.   The name, age and address of the applicant in case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the
stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominee, the name and
address of such person, and his nominee, if any.
         b.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
         c.   The character of business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation, the object for which it was formed.
         d.   The length of time said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
         e.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application was made.
         f.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
         g.   A statement whether the applicant has made a similar application,
for a similar other license on premises anywhere including the premises
described in this application and the disposition of such application.
         h.   The statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of this State or the provisions of this Code.
         i.   Where a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, by
the Federal government, has been revoked, and the reason therefor.
         j.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws
of the State of Illinois or the United States, or any provision of this chapter
or other provisions of this Code in the conduct of his place of business. (Ord.
2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-6: PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Eligibility:
      1.   No license required by this chapter shall be issued to:
         a.   Any person or persons who have not reached the age of twenty one
(21).
         b.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he resides.
         c.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
         d.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or
State law.
         e.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or keeping a
house of ill-fame.
         f.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
         g.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any
license issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon first
application.
         h.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause.
         i.   A co-partnership unless all members of such co-partnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license.
         j.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate of more than five percent (5%) of the stock
of such corporation would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship or residence within the Village.
         k.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
by the licensee.
         l.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or
State law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the effective date hereof and preceding provisions regulating the
retail sale of alcoholic liquors in the Village or shall have forfeited his
bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
         m.   Any law enforcing public official, any President of the Village,
any Alderman of the Village; and no such official shall be interested either
directly or indirectly in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic
liquor in the Village.
         n.   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a State
retail liquor dealer's license.
         o.   No such license shall be issued to a person who is not a resident
of the Village.
         p.   No such license shall be issued to any person who has ever been
committed to any city, county, state, Federal or probate institution for the
mentally incompetent.
         q.   A person, firm or corporation which does not own the premises for
which a license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period
for which the license is to be issued. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-7: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES AND FEES:
   A.   Classification:
      1.   There are hereby the following classifications of licenses for the
sale of alcoholic liquor:
         a.   Class A License:
         (1)    Class A licenses which authorize retail sale on the premises of
package liquor. The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand two
hundred dollars ($1,200.00) per year, and shall be valid from July 1 through
June 30 every year.
         b.   Class B License:
         (1)    Class B licenses which authorize sale on the premises of
alcoholic liquor for the consumption within the interior of the premises where
sold. The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00) per year, and shall be valid from July 1 through June 30
every year.
         (2)    An additional fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be
required of all holders of Class B licenses to engage in the sale of alcoholic
liquors on Sundays. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-8: SELLING WITHOUT LICENSE:
   A.   The retail delivery or sale of alcoholic liquor whether for cash or its
equivalent or as the result of the payment of any admission fee to the premises
or any other indirect method of payment therefor other than pursuant to Class A
or Class B license as hereinbefore specified, is hereby prohibited. (Ord. 2018-
03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-9: RESTRICTION ON NUMBER, CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Number Of Licenses:
      1.   The total number and classification of liquor licenses to be issued
in the Village shall be, unless otherwise changes by action of the Village
Council, and are hereby set at:
         a.   Three (3) Class A licenses.
         b.   Three (3) Class B licenses.
      2.   If any licensee holding a liquor license under the provisions of
this chapter fails to renew his license, as by law provided, or the same is
surrendered, cancelled, revoked or otherwise terminated, such license of any
class shall not be restored if there are at least three (3) Class A licenses or
three (3) Class B licenses in full force and effect. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-
2018)
3-4-10: LICENSE PERIODS:
   A.   Class A licenses and Class B licenses shall terminate on June 30 next
following their issuance. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-11: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
   A.   All fees required by this chapter shall be paid to the Village Clerk at
the time an application is made and shall forthwith be turned over to the
Treasurer. In the event the license applied for is denied the fee shall be
returned to the applicant. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be
deposited in the General Corporate Fund or in such other fund as shall have
been designated by the Village Council, by proper action. The fee to be paid
shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar months which have expired
in the year prior to the issuance of the license. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-12: RECORDS OF LICENSES:
   A.   The Clerk shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all
licenses issued under this chapter and shall furnish the President, Treasurer
and Chief of Police each with a copy thereof; upon the issuance of any license
or the revocation of any old license, the President shall give written notice
of such action to each of these officers within forty eight (48) hours of such
action. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-13: TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSES:
   A.   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for only the
period specified therefor in this chapter hereof unless sooner revoked as in
this chapter provided, and shall not constitute property nor shall it be
subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily or subject to be encumbered or
hypothecated. Corporation licenses will abide by the same rule; thus once a
majority stockholder has changed, a new license will need to be issued. Such
license shall not descend by the laws of the State or intestate devolution, but
shall cease upon the death of the licensee provided that executors or
administrators of the estate of the deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensees when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic
liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privilege of
the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt until the expiration of such license, but
not longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of
such licensee. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-14: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every person who is licensed hereunder who shall sell any alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises of such licensee shall keep and maintain
the adequate sanitary washing facilities for the cleaning of glasses and
service utensils, shall provide adequate toilet facilities for both male and
female, and shall otherwise comply with all health and sanitary requirements of
the provisions of this Code applicable to licensed business, if any. All
employees shall be clean in person and in clothing, and no person afflicted
with any contagious disease in communicable form shall be employed in or about
the serving of liquor or in the washing of glasses or other utensils. (Ord.
2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-15: HOURS, DAYS OF SALE:
   A.   Lawful Hours:
      1.   It shall be lawful to sell or offer for sale at retail alcoholic
liquors under Class A licenses during the following hours:
         a.   On Sunday through Saturday between the hours of eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following day.
      2.   It shall be lawful to sell or offer for sale at retail alcoholic
liquors under Class B licenses during the following hours:
         a.   On Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday between the
hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M.
         b.   On Friday between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and
midnight (12:00) A.M.
         c.   On Saturday between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and
midnight (12:00) A.M.
         d.   There shall be no sale of alcoholic liquors on any portion of the
licensed premises after sixty (60) minutes from the time of closing. Closing
time shall be one o'clock (1:00) A.M. each and every day of the week.
      3.   There shall be no one within the premises for purposes of selling,
purchasing, or consuming alcoholic beverages after closing hours or before the
opening time except the owners, and custodians, for cleaning purposes only.
      4.   On December 31 of each and every year, regardless of the day of the
week such date should fall upon or otherwise occur, it shall be lawful to sell
or offer for sale at retail alcoholic liquors under Class “B” licenses from
eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following date,
January 1. On January 1 of each and every year, closing time shall be two
o'clock (2:00) A.M.  (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018; amd. Ord. 2019-04-01, 4-1-
2019; Ord. 01February2021-1, 2-1-2021)
3-4-16: VISIBILITY OF INTERIOR:
   A.   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
upon the premises is licensed (other than as a restaurant, hotel or club), no
screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted in the
windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises nor inside such premises
which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such licensed premises
from the street, road or sidewalk at all times, and no booths, screen,
partition or other obstruction nor any arrangement of light or lighting shall
be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which shall prevent a
full view of the entire interior of such premises from the street, road or
sidewalk, and said premises must be so located that there shall be full view of
the entire interior of such premises from the street, road or sidewalk. All
rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall be
continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or official white
light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly
visible. In case the view into any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provision shall be willfully suffered to be obscured or in any manner
obstructed, then such license shall be subject to revocation or suspension in
the manner herein provided. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-17: ENFORCEMENT OF VISIBILITY, LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In order to enforce the provisions of the foregoing section of this
chapter the President as Liquor Commissioner shall have the right to require
the filing with him of plans, drawings and photographs showing the clearness of
view and lighting as specified in the above section. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-
2018)
3-4-18: SALES TO MINORS, CERTAIN PERSONS:
   A.   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member or representative, agent
or employee of such licensee shall see, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years or to any intoxicated person or
to any person known by him to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane,
mentally ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment, or as
prohibited by the Illinois Liquor Control Law. No person, after purchasing or
otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall see, give or deliver such alcoholic
liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   Any person of legal age who shall purchase alcoholic liquor for the
purpose of giving or delivering any of said alcoholic liquor to any minor or
any person not entitled to the same because of age or otherwise as hereinabove
provided, within the Village, except the parent or legal guardian of such
person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   C.   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic
liquor. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-19: SALE, DELIVERY IN VILLAGE BUILDINGS:
   A.   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or delivered in any building
belonging to the Village. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-20: EMPLOYING MINORS:
   A.   In any premises that has a Class A license, it shall be unlawful to
permit any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to handle any packaged
alcohol.
   B.   In any premises that has a Class B license, it shall be unlawful to
permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to draw, pour or mix
any alcoholic liquor as an employee of any retail licensee; in the sale,
distribution, packaging, delivery of alcoholic liquors, no liquor licensee
licensed by the Village may employ, with or without compensation, or in any way
directly or indirectly use the services of a person under the age of twenty one
(21). (Ord. 2019-04-01, 4-1-2019)
3-4-21: IDENTIFICATION, PROOF OF AGE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer, alter or deface an
identification card, use the identification card of another, carry or use a
false or forged identification card or to obtain an identification card by
means of false information.
   B.   If a licensee or his agents or employees believe or have reason to
believe that the sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of
the non-age of the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such sale or
delivery demand a representation of some form of positive identification,
containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his
official duties. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-22: POLITICAL CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any licensee, where more than five percent (5%) of
the licensee's gross income is derived from the sale of alcoholic liquor, of
any officer, associate, representative, agent or employee of such licensee to
become liable for, pay or make any contributions directly or indirectly towards
the campaign funds or expenses of any political party, or candidate for public
office or for nomination of any candidate for public office within the Village.
(Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-23: OWNER RESPONSIBLE:
   A.   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the
licensee derives the right of possession of such premises, or the agent of such
owner or person shall knowingly permit the licensee to use his licensed
premises in violation of the terms of this chapter, said owner, agent or other
person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent
as said licensee and shall be subject to same punishment. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-
13-2018)
3-4-24: MANAGERS:
   A.   All owners and/or managers must file with the Liquor Commissioner a
written, notarized agreement between themselves, at least five (5) days before
the new manager assumes his or her duties. Owners and managers shall agree to
comply fully with this chapter.
   B.   License holders or managers must live in the State of Illinois one year
and the County of Henderson ninety (90) days. Managers must be actual working
managers. Corporations licensed to do business in Illinois may hold a license.
The corporation must have an agent living in the County who is authorized to
accept service. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-25: LIABILITY OF LICENSEE:
   A.   Every act or admission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or
other agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act
of such employer or licensee, and said employer or licensee shall be punishable
in the same manner as if said act or admission had been done by him personally.
(Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-26: PUBLIC VIEW, PUBLIC PLACE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift, or delivery
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age, and who has consumed
alcoholic liquor to be in public view or in a public place in the Village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink, transport, carry, possess
or have alcoholic liquor except in the original package and with the seal
unbroken on any public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place in the
Village. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-27: ADVERTISING:
   A.   All outside advertising lights, inside pool table, jukeboxes, etc.,
will be shut off promptly at closing time.
   B.   Every holder of a Class B license in the Village where alcoholic liquor
is sold shall display at all times in a prominent place a printed card which
shall be issued by the Village Clerk and shall read substantially as follows:
WARNING
You are subject to a fine up to $500.00 under the provisions of the Village
Code of Stronghurst, Henderson County, Illinois, if you purchase or accept
alcoholic liquor, beer or wine, otherwise prohibited because of your age, or
misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
liquor, beer or wine.
(Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-28: ANNUAL PROOF OF SALES:
   A.   The owner of each Class B license shall present to the Village Clerk,
who shall forward to the Liquor Commissioner, a proof of sales on an annual
basis. Only forty percent (40%) of total annual sales may come from the sale of
alcohol. The remaining sixty percent (60%) may be made up of the total sales of
food, products, or other goods offered for sale by the establishment. Proof
should be filed with the Village Clerk no later than June 1st of that year.
(Ord. 2019-04-01, 4-1-2019)
3-4-29: GAMBLING; VIDEO GAMING:
   A.   Gambling Restricted: No gambling of any type, except Illinois State
Lottery games, shall be allowed on the premises of a license holder whether the
gambling is for cash or for prizes. All businesses selling alcoholic beverages
shall display a sign in plain view to all customers stating that there will be
no gambling allowed in the establishment. However, video gaming shall be
allowed pursuant to the mandates of subsection B of this section and the
Illinois Video Gaming Act. (Ord. 2018-09-04-1, 9-4-2018)
   B.   Video Gaming Regulations:
      1.   That video gambling is hereby allowed in the Village of Stronghurst,
subject to the mandates of the Illinois Video Gaming Act.
      2.   That video gambling is only authorized in establishments that hold a
Class B liquor license from the Village of Stronghurst.
      3.   That any video gaming terminal shall have a fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per year, payable to the Village of Stronghurst. (Ord. 2018-
09-04-2, 9-4-2018)
3-4-30: REVOCATION; POWER OF LIQUOR COMMISSIONER:
   A.   The President, as Liquor Commissioner of the Village, shall have the
power to suspend or revoke any liquor license hereunder for violation of any
section of this chapter, as specified in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes, and
all other powers granted to him in the aforesaid chapter of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes, subject to the restriction and procedures contained therein.
(Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-31: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for a first offense and for each offense thereafter not less than
three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-32: REPORTING:
   A.   If a violation of the Criminal Laws including disorderly conduct is
committed on the premises of any business engaged in the selling of alcoholic
liquors, the license holder or an employee, shall call the appropriate law
enforcement officials promptly. If a license holder fails to promptly report
violations of the Criminal Law which takes place on his or her premises, such
failure may be considered cause for suspension or revocation of his liquor
license. (Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-33: CONDUCT WITHIN ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   No license holder hereunder shall permit any disorderly conduct, or
vile or profane language upon premises occupied by the holder in the conduct of
their business under such license.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any license holder to permit, or for any
person to perform any dance or other activity on the licensed premises which
such person exposes breasts or sexual organs in a vulgar and indecent manner.
(Ord. 2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-34: LICENSE ISSUED:
   A.   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be issued on a form
provided for that purpose by the President and Village Clerk of the Village of
Stronghurst, but only when authorized to do so by a majority vote of the Board
of Trustees, and upon all other terms and conditions as herein stated. (Ord.
2018-03-13, 3-13-2018)
3-4-35: INSURANCE:
   A.   All persons receiving licenses under the provisions of this chapter
shall maintain dram shop insurance coverage during the period of time said
license is in effect in the maximum amount available.
   B.   All persons receiving licenses under the provisions of this chapter
shall, at the time of receiving said license, file proof of existence of dram
shop insurance coverage as required under this section, with the Village Clerk
which shall be forwarded to the Liquor Control Commissioner. (Ord. 2018-03-13,
3-13-2018)
3-4-36: SPECIAL EVENTS:
   A.   Upon motion of the Local Liquor Control Commission and approval by the
majority of Board-members on the Village Board of the Village of Stronghurst,
all requirements stated herein as to hours of operation and location may be
temporarily modified for special events.
   B.   Upon the passing of a temporary special events modification, the
Village Board shall cause to be posted in a prominent place:
      1.   The name or title of the special event;
      2.   The terms of the modification(s);
      3.   The beginning and end date of the modified rules.
   C.   Within ten (10) days of the passing of a temporary special events
modification, the Village Board shall deliver or otherwise convey notification
of the modification and the details described in subsection B of this section
to all license-holders in the Village of Stronghurst.
   D.   All license-holders shall be notified in a reasonable manner and within
a reasonable time before the modification takes effect. (Ord. 2019-04-02, 4-1-
2019)
CHAPTER 5
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited
3-5-3: Public Nuisance Declared
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this chapter, have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as follows:
ADULT-USE
CANNABIS       A cultivation center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser
BUSINESS       organization, dispensing organization or transporting organization.
ESTABLISHMENT:
               A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
ADULT-USE      Illinois Department of Agriculture to cultivate, dry, cure, and package 
CANNABIS CRAFT cannabis and perform other necessary activities to make cannabis available
GROWER:        for sale at a dispensing organization or use at a processing organization,
               per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as it may be amended from time-
               to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
               A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
ADULT-USE      Illinois Department of Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and
CANNABIS       perform necessary activities to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused
CULTIVATE      products to licensed cannabis business establishments, per the Cannabis
CENTER:        Regulation and Tax Act, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
               regulations promulgated thereunder.
               A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
               Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire
ADULT-USE      cannabis from licensed cannabis business establishments for the purpose of
CANNABIS       selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds,
DISPENSING     paraphernalia or related supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered
ORGANIZATION:  medical cannabis patients and caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and
               Tax Act, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
               promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE      A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed buy
CANNABIS       the Illinois Department of Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or
INFUSER        cannabis concentrate into a product formulation to produce a cannabis-
ORGANIZATION   infused product, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as it may be
OR INFUSER:    amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE      A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
CANNABIS       Illinois Department of Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals
PROCESSING     or compounds to produce cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or
ORGANIZATION   cannabis concentrate into a product formulation to produce a cannabis
OR PROCESSOR:  product, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as it may be amended
               from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE      An organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
CANNABIS       Agriculture to transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business
TRANSPORTING   establishment or a community college licensed under the Community College
ORGANIZATION   Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation
OR             and Tax Act, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
TRANSPORTER:   promulgated thereunder.
               Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society, or other
PERSON:        organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee,
               volunteer, or agent.  (Ord. 04November2019, 11-4-19)
 
3-5-2: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
The following Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments are prohibited in the
Village of Stronghurst. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to
be operated, or aide, abet, or assist in the operation within the Village of
Stronghurst any of the following:
   A.   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower;
   B.   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center;
   C.   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization;
   D.   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization or Infuser;
   E.   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor; and
   F.   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization or Transporter.  (Ord.
04November2019, 11-4-19)
3-5-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the Village
of Stronghurst in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available
remedies.  (Ord. 04November2019, 11-4-19)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Nuisances Enumerated
4-1-2: Penalties; Abatement Procedures
4-1-1: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any person or corporation:
   A.   Obstructing, Polluting Water: To obstruct or render unwholesome or
impure the water of any spring, stream, pond, or well or water system to the
injury or prejudice of others. (1993 Code p. 52 § 402.2-3)
   B.   Obstructing Drainageways, Sewers: To obstruct or impede, without legal
authority, the passage of any gutter, conduit, sewer, or the natural drainage
of any public or private property. (1993 Code p. 52 § 402.2-4)
   C.   Obstructing Public Or Private Ways 1 : To obstruct or encroach upon
public highways, private ways, streets, alleys or commons. (1993 Code p. 52 §
402.2-5)
   D.   Offensive Odors: To negligently conduct any business or use any
premises so as to create such an offensive smell as may taint the air and
render it unwholesome or disagreeable to another person. (1993 Code p. 52 §
402.2-1)
   E.   Offensive Substances:
      1.   To deposit any nightsoil, dead animal or other filthy, offensive or
noisome substance upon any lot, street, alley, highway, park, or other place.
(1993 Code p. 52 § 402.2-2)
      2.   To use on any sidewalk of the village any cart, wheelbarrow, or
other vehicle or receptacle for hauling or conveying any slop, swill, manure,
or other offensive or filthy matter. (1993 Code p. 53 § 402.2-12)
   F.   Offensive Businesses: To establish, maintain or carry on any offensive
or unwholesome business within the limits of the village or within one mile of
the limits thereof. (1993 Code p. 52 § 402.2-6)
   G.   Garbage And Refuse: To permit or suffer any offal, filth, refuse, or
animal or vegetable matter which is liable to become putrid or offensive, or
injurious to health, to remain on any premises used or occupied by said person
or corporation. (1993 Code p. 52 § 402.2-7)
   H.   Offensive Premises, Sewers: To keep or suffer to be kept in a foul,
offensive, nauseous, or filthy condition any railroad car, building, yard,
cellar, barn, sewer, or pigsty. (1993 Code p. 52 § 402.2-8; amd. 2006 Code)
   I.   Stagnant Water: For the owner or keeper of any lot or premises to
suffer to stand or to remain thereon water, which is, or which may become
stagnant, foul and offensive as well as detrimental to the health and comfort
of persons residing in the neighborhood thereof. (1993 Code p. 52 § 402.2-9)
   J.   Slaughterhouses:
      1.   To erect or use habitually any house or lot for the purpose of
butchering or slaughtering cattle, calves, sheep, swine or poultry without
permission granted by the board of trustees. (1993 Code p. 52 § 402.2-10)
      2.   To conduct the business of slaughtering or butchering, as provided
in subsection J1 of this section, in such manner, or keep the premises in such
condition, or so use said premises that the effect of such business or the
condition or use of such premises would be annoying, or in any manner become
detrimental to the health or comfort of any inhabitant of the village. (1993
Code p. 53 § 402.2-11)
   K.   Junked, Inoperable Vehicles 2 : To permit, for a period of thirty (30)
consecutive days, a vehicle not in operable condition to be deposited, stored,
placed, maintained, or operated on a public street or alley, and to allow such
junk vehicle to be in view from any public street or alley. (1993 Code p. 53 §
402.2-13)
   L.   Weeds And Trash 3 : To maintain weeds, trash or brush on any premises
within the village or to permit any noxious weeds to go to seed. (1993 Code p.
53 § 402.2-14)
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections 5-3B-6 and 5-3B-10 of this code.
2 1. See also chapter 2 of this title.
3 2. See also chapters 2 and 3 of this title.
4-1-2: PENALTIES; ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
Whoever violates any clause or section of this chapter shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and if any person or corporation shall continue a nuisance
after being fined for the same, a new cause of action shall immediately accrue
against such person or corporation, subjecting the offender to a like penalty
as aforesaid, and so on. After the rendition of each fine, the continuance of
such nuisance shall be deemed a new cause of action, subjecting the offender to
like penalty as aforesaid; provided, that the offender shall in every case
under this chapter be notified by some executive officer of the village to
remove or abate any such nuisance, and be allowed a reasonable time to be fixed
by such officer in such notice, according to the nature of such nuisance, to so
remove or abate the same, and upon so doing, within the time fixed by such
officer, the offender shall not be subject to the fine aforesaid, unless the
commission of the nuisance was wilful or resulted in actual damage to the
person or property of some person or corporation. (1993 Code p. 53 § 402.2-15;
amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TRASH AND JUNK; RODENT CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Junk Defined
4-2-2: Storage And Accumulation Of Junk
4-2-3: Rodent Control; Hazardous Conditions
4-2-4: Penalties
4-2-1: JUNK DEFINED:
The word "junk", as used in this chapter, includes, but is not limited to,
waste, used or secondhand materials, such as scrap iron, other metals, paper,
tires, rags, bottles, moveable structures, wood, tin cans, furniture, large
parts of car bodies, truck cabs, motors, frames, wheels, tires, etc. (Ord. 402-
1-44, 2-2-1998)
4-2-2: STORAGE AND ACCUMULATION OF JUNK 1 :
No person shall store, salvage, abandon or accumulate longer than three (3)
months on his property trash, vehicles, junk or garbage unless within a
building or within a neatly maintained screening fence. (Ord. 402-1-44, 2-2-
1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  4-1-1K of this title.
4-2-3: RODENT CONTROL; HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS:
   A.   Rodents shall be maintained so that they will not create a nuisance to
adjacent lots.
   B.   No person shall allow a residential lot, residential property or
dwelling area or commercial property to become so overgrown with weeds that
hazardous conditions might be concealed or habitat provided for nuisance
animals including rats 1 . (Ord. 402-1-44, 2-2-1998)
 
Notes
  2. See also subsection
1 4-1-1K and section
  4-3-1 of this title.
4-2-4: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the terms of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be fined a sum not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) to be
determined by the appropriate court having jurisdiction over said matter. The
second offense shall carry a fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). The
third offense shall grant authority to the village to cause the removal of the
offensive materials at the expense of the landowner. (Ord. 402-1-44, 2-2-1998;
amd. 2006 Code)
ST889   4-3.txt ()
CHAPTER 3
PLANTS, WEEDS AND TREES 1
SECTION:
4-3-1: Height Restrictions
4-3-2: Dutch Elm Diseased Trees
4-3-3: Trees On Village Property And Village Right Of Way
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsections
  4-1-1L and 4-2-3B of this title.
4-3-1: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Height Limit: The growth of any weed, grass or plant other than trees,
bushes, flowers, vegetables or other ornamental plants exceeding six inches
(6") is unlawful.
   B.   Determination By Village: The village board of trustees or any person
empowered by resolution of the board of trustees may, from time to time,
determine properties existing within the corporate limits upon which the growth
of weeds, grass or plants is in violation of subsection A of this section.
(Ord. 402-1-45, 7-1-2002)
   C.   Notice To Abate: The offender shall, in every case under this section,
be notified by some executive officer of the village to remove or abate any
unlawful growth stands, and be allowed a reasonable time, to be fixed by such
officer in such notice, to so remove or abate the same, and upon so doing,
within the time fixed by such officer, the offender shall not be subject to
fine. (2006 Code)
   D.   Abatement By Village: Upon a determination of violation of this
section, any duly authorized employee of the village may and is hereby
authorized to enter onto the property upon which the unlawful growth stands and
remove said unlawful growth by any reasonable means. Reasonable removal shall
include, but not be limited to, mowing and plant removal, so long as sufficient
cover remains on the premises to prevent erosion.
   E.   Cost Of Abatement; Lien Provisions: The village board of trustees or
any person designated by the board by resolution may, from time to time,
determine a reasonable charge to be made for the services performed by the
village pursuant to subsection D of this section. The costs of services shall
be a lien upon the real estate affected. Said lien shall be filed with the
county recorder's office within sixty (60) days of the performance of the
services. The village clerk shall be responsible for filing all notices of
lien. (Ord. 402-1-45, 7-1-2002)
4-3-2: DUTCH ELM DISEASED TREES:
   A.   Existence Of Diseased Trees: Many of the trees of the village are
infected with Dutch elm disease which constitutes a hazard to the community and
the property of residents of the village. (1993 Code p. 78 § 404.4-1)
   B.   Removal And Destruction Of Diseased Trees Required: All persons having
trees on their property which are infected with Dutch elm disease shall remove
said trees at once and shall cause such trees and the refuse incident to the
removal of the same to be destroyed. (1993 Code p. 78 § 404.4-2)
   C.   Penalty; Abatement By Village: Any person violating the provisions of
this section shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such violation; it being hereby determined that the
maintenance of each tree with Dutch elm disease shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense. If any owner of property shall refuse or fail to comply with
the terms of this section after first being fined as provided herein, such tree
or trees as shall be infected with Dutch elm disease shall be removed by the
village at the expense of the property owner. (1993 Code p. 78 §§ 404.4-3,
404.4-4; amd. 2006 Code)
4-3-3: TREES ON VILLAGE PROPERTY AND VILLAGE RIGHT OF WAY 1 :
   A.   Policy: It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village to
regulate and control the planting, transplanting, removal, maintenance and
protection of trees and shrubs in the village in order to eliminate and guard
against dangerous conditions which may result in injury to persons using the
streets, alleys, sidewalks or property of the village; to promote and enhance
the beauty and general welfare of the public; to prevent damage to any street,
sidewalk or other village property; to protect trees and shrubs located in
public areas owned by the village from undesirable and unsafe planting,
removal, treatment and maintenance practices; and to guard all trees and shrubs
on village property against the spread of pests and disease. It is the intent
of the village that the provisions of this section shall apply to all trees and
plants growing or planted in or upon any public right of way or other premises
owned or controlled by the village.
   B.   Regulation: A village employee or designee is hereby empowered to
superintend and regulate the planting, preservation, protection and maintenance
of trees of all public ways of the village. No person shall plant any tree or
plant on any public way or place any planting thereon until the village
employee or designee has issued an okay for such planting.
   C.   Approved Species: Tree species planted in the parkway must conform to
the parkway tree planting list as approved by the village employee or designee.
   D.   Removal Of Diseased Or Damaged Trees: All crippled, deformed and
physically damaged trees, regardless of species, if professional opinion
indicates that recovery and normal development cannot be expected, shall be
removed. All trees infected with a noncurable disease that will result in
deformation, death and infection of other trees shall be removed.
   E.   Spacing: All new plantings in parkways shall conform within a tree
spacing of thirty feet (30'), except where the village employee or designee has
determined that the tree species planted is appropriate for the planting space
available.
   F.   Planting Requirements:
      1.   Trees, when planted, shall have a minimum trunk diameter of two
inches (2") measured at a distance of six inches (6") above ground level and
shall be free from deformity and indication of undesirable growth
characteristics.
      2.   Trees, when planted, shall be free of infectious disease or insect
infestation.
      3.   No trees may be planted on parkways less than three feet (3') wide,
unless, in the opinion of the village employee or designee, the planting and
the species of tree approved will not endanger the sidewalk, curb or other
property.
      4.   Planting of trees is prohibited under the following conditions:
         a.   If such planting interferes with existing or planned structures
or existing or planned underground or overhead utilities, such as sewers,
pipes, or cables;
         b.   If such planting would create a hazardous traffic situation by
impairing driver or pedestrian visibility at intersections or where traffic
controls are located.
   G.   Spraying, Injections And Pruning: Spraying and injections of trees in
parkways for the prevention and elimination of diseases and insect infestation
shall be performed to meet the specific requirements of the species of tree and
the particular disease or insect infestation which exists or threatens. It
shall be the responsibility of the village employee or designee to determine
the need and extent of spraying, injections and pruning requirements.
   H.   Tree Protection:
      1.   Protection During Construction Work: During any type of construction
work, the owner or contractor shall place guards around all nearby trees on the
parkway or any other public ways to prevent injury to such trees or plants. In
case of injury to a tree or plant, an approved replacement must be furnished.
      2.   Wires: No person shall permanently attach or connect any electric or
other wire to any tree or permit any such wire to come in contact with any
tree.
      3.   Placing Materials Around Trees: No person shall place or maintain
upon the ground around a parkway tree any surfacing or material which will
impede free passage of water and air to the roots without leaving an open space
of not less than two feet (2') in width around the tree.
   I.   Planting And Replacement Of Trees By Village: The village retains the
right to plant parkway trees wherever needed in conformance with this section.
   J.   Permission Required For Removing Trees:
      1.   No person shall, without permission from the village employee or
designee, remove, destroy, break, cut, deface, trim or injure or interfere with
any tree or plant growing in any street, parkway, or public place in the
village.
      2.   When such trees or shrubs are damaged or broken by the force of
nature in such a manner as to constitute a threat to life or property, then
such owner or person in control shall promptly remove them or the parts thereof
which constitute the danger and shall report such person's actions to the
village employee or designee within a reasonable period thereafter.
   K.   Penalty; Abatement By Village: Any person violating the provisions of
this section shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such violation; it being hereby determined that
each violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. If any owner
of property shall refuse or fail to comply with the terms of this section after
first being fined as provided herein, such tree or trees that shall be deemed
in violation of this section by the village employee or designee shall be
removed at the expense of the property owner, such violation being subject to
thirty (30) day notice from the village employee or designee. (Ord. 2012-10-01,
10-1-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 33 feet from the center of the road.
TITLE 5
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
LAW ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Village Law Enforcement
5-1-2: Duties Of Law Enforcement Official
5-1-3: Part Time Police
5-1-1: VILLAGE LAW ENFORCEMENT:
The president and board of trustees shall employ some suitable person to act as
village law enforcement official or shall enter into an agreement with the
county sheriff to provide for law enforcement within the village. Such law
enforcement official or person employed by the county sheriff shall, in all
respects, be authorized to perform all appropriate duties provided in the
ordinances of the village. (1993 Code p. 30 § 401.6; amd. 2006 Code)
5-1-2: DUTIES OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the appropriate law enforcement official for
the village to preserve the peace, order and safety of the village and to
enforce the various ordinances of the village and to perform other duties and
functions prescribed by the village president and board of trustees.
   B.   The appropriate law enforcement official for the village shall take
notice of all nuisances and obstructions and defects in the streets, alleys,
avenues, and public places of the village and report the same to the president
and board of trustees. (1993 Code p. 30 § 401.6)
   C.   The appropriate law enforcement official for the village shall execute
all writs of process issued to him for service. He shall report all violations
of ordinances to the president and board of trustees. He shall arrest, without
warrant, any person who may be found violating any ordinances of the village.
(1993 Code p. 30 § 401.6; amd. 2006 Code)
5-1-3: PART TIME POLICE:
   A.   Employment: The village of Stronghurst may employ part time police
officers from time to time as they deem necessary.
   B.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
policies and procedures manual of the Stronghurst police department, but the
number of hours a part time officer may work within a calendar year is
restricted. Part time police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or
direct full time police officers. Part time police officers shall be trained in
accordance with the Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and
requirements of the ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the chief of police. Part time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in
said employment, and may be removed by the village authorities at any time.
Part time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general
orders issued by the police department. (Ord. 2012-0806, 8-6-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
(Rep. by Ord. 2013-0903, 9-3-2013)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Illinois Criminal Code Adopted
5-3-2: Misdemeanor Violations; Penalty
5-3-1: ILLINOIS CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et
seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the village. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this chapter, and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this chapter if
proceeded hereunder. (2006 Code)
5-3-2: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Violation of each of the sections in the articles of this chapter shall be
deemed a misdemeanor which, if severally or jointly committed by any person or
corporation within the territorial jurisdiction of the village, shall subject
the offender, severally, to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1993 Code p. 33 § 402.1; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES
ARTICLE A.  OFFENSES INVOLVING THE PERSON
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Assault And Battery
5-3A-2: Breach Of The Peace
5-3A-3: Disorderly Conduct
5-3A-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
No person shall commit an assault or assault and battery. (1993 Code p. 33 §
402.1-1)
5-3A-2: BREACH OF THE PEACE:
No person shall provoke a breach of the peace, nor use any violent,
threatening, profane or indecent language to the disturbance of any person, nor
use any threatening, reproaching or abusive language to, of, or concerning any
other person, tending to provoke a breach of the peace. (1993 Code p. 33 §
402.1-2)
5-3A-3: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
No person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct nor make, aid, countenance, or
assist in making any improper noise, riot, disturbance or breach of the peace.
(1993 Code p. 33 § 402.1-4)
ARTICLE B.  OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-3B-1: Damaging Property Generally
5-3B-2: Tampering With Stakes, Cornerstones And Posts
5-3B-3: Signs And Merchandise Over Public Ways
5-3B-4: Posting Notices
5-3B-5: Cellar Doors
5-3B-6: Obstructing Public Ways
5-3B-7: Injuring Public Ways
5-3B-8: Damage To Streetlamps
5-3B-9: Damage To Trees (Rep. by Ord. 2016-01-04, 1-4-2016)
5-3B-10: Encroachments On Public Ways
5-3B-11: Trespasses
5-3B-11-1: Trespassing To Damage Property
5-3B-12: Damage To Public Water System
5-3B-1: DAMAGING PROPERTY GENERALLY:
   A.   No person shall wilfully, maliciously or for mischief, break, destroy,
injure, disfigure or deface any window, door, or any part of any dwelling house
or other building not his own, nor shall in like manner attempt to break,
destroy, injure or deface any such building, or any part thereof, by force,
such as throwing stones or other substances, nor in any manner pull down,
remove, destroy, injure or disfigure any notice, handbill or poster lawfully
posted, or any signpost, gate, gatepost, fence or railing, or any pile of wood,
lumber or other property of another, nor remove, overturn or injure any wagon
or other vehicle of another, nor run off any domestic animal of another. (1993
Code p. 40 § 402.1-40)
   B.   No person shall negligently or wilfully injure, destroy or deface any
bridge, crossing, sidewalk, fence, tree or other property of the village. (1993
Code p. 35 § 402.1-15)
5-3B-2: TAMPERING WITH STAKES, CORNERSTONES AND POSTS:
No person shall purposely change or remove any stake, post or stone placed or
set to designate the corner or line of any lot or land, street or alley, or to
show the grade of any street, alley, or sidewalk. (1993 Code p. 40 § 402.1-41)
5-3B-3: SIGNS AND MERCHANDISE OVER PUBLIC WAYS:
No person shall suspend any merchandise or other article, nor set up or cause
to be set up any sign, box, or fixture which shall extend over or upon the
inside of any sidewalk, unless such merchandise or other article, sign, box or
fixture is suspended at least eight feet (8') above the sidewalk. Provided,
that nothing herein shall be so construed as to prevent merchants or
manufacturers from occupying more than one-half (1/2) of the sidewalk when
receiving or shipping goods. (1993 Code p. 40 § 402.1-42)
5-3B-4: POSTING NOTICES:
No person shall stick, paste, put up or place upon or against any building,
tenement, fence, wall, post or other place any handbill, show bill, picture or
representation, unless by consent of the owner or occupant of said building,
tenement, fence, wall, post or place; nor shall it be lawful for any person in
the village to stick, paste, put up or place, or cause to be stuck, posted, put
up, or placed upon or against any building, tenement, fence, wall or any public
place any gross, indecent or lewd written or printed advertisement, picture,
handbill or notice. (1993 Code p. 36 § 402.1-24; amd. 2006 Code)
5-3B-5: CELLAR DOORS:
No person shall leave open, uncovered or unguarded any cellar door, pit, vault
or other subterraneous opening leading from, into or upon any street, alley, or
sidewalk within the village. (1993 Code p. 37a § 402.1-29)
5-3B-6: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS 1 :
No person shall encumber or obstruct any street, alley or sidewalk with
building materials or any article or thing whatever without first having
obtained the written permission of the village president. Nor shall any person,
except in case of urgent necessity and for a short time, encumber or obstruct
more than one-third (1/3) of any street or alley or one-half (1/2) of any
sidewalk. (1993 Code p. 37a § 402.1-30)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  4-1-1C of this code.
5-3B-7: INJURING PUBLIC WAYS:
No person shall injure or tear up any pavement, sidewalk or crosswalk, or any
part thereof, or dig any hole, ditch or drain in, or dig or remove any sod or
earth, sand or gravel from any street, alley or public ground of the village
without having first obtained the written permission of the village president 1
. (1993 Code p. 38 § 402.1-31)
 
Notes
1 2. See also sections
  7-1-5, 7-1-7 and 8-1-4 of this code.
5-3B-8: DAMAGE TO STREETLAMPS:
No person shall deface, break, climb upon, meddle with, nor in any manner
injure any lamp or lamppost, or any fixture or attachment to any lamp or
lamppost, in any street or public place in the village. (1993 Code p. 38 §
402.1-33; amd. 2006 Code)
5-3B-9: DAMAGE TO TREES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2016-01-04, 1-4-2016)
5-3B-10: ENCROACHMENTS ON PUBLIC WAYS 1 :
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall make or cause to be made any structure,
enclosure, fence, cellar door, stairway, or building encroaching in whole or in
part upon any street, alley or sidewalk of the village. (1993 Code p. 41 §
402.1-46)
   B.   Failure To Remove: No person, being the owner of any structure,
enclosure, fence, cellar door, stairway, or building, which encroaches upon any
street, alley, or sidewalk, shall fail to remove the same within thirty (30)
days after written notice so to do. (1993 Code p. 41 § 402.1-47)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  4-1-1C of this code.
5-3B-11: TRESPASSES:
   A.   Trespasses Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to commit a trespass within the village upon either public or
private property.
   B.   Specifically Enumerated Trespasses; Suppression: Without constituting
any limitation upon the provisions of subsection A of this section, any of the
following acts by any person, firm or corporation shall be deemed included
among those that constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of
subsection A of this section, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at
any time, or from time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation of this
section, the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as follows:
      1.   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance in said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or occupant thereof; or
      2.   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof; or
      3.   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      4.   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(1993 Code p. 47 § 402.1-56; amd. 2006 Code)
5-3B-11-1: TRESPASSING TO DAMAGE PROPERTY:
No person shall wilfully, maliciously, or for mischief enter any orchard, yard,
garden, or enclosure of another and mutilate, injure, or destroy any tree,
shrub, vine, fruit or vegetable therein, nor take or carry away any fruit,
vegetable or flower therefrom without the consent of the owner or person in
charge of the same. (1993 Code p. 42 § 402.1-51)
5-3B-12: DAMAGE TO PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM:
No person shall wilfully injure or destroy any building, public well, pump or
other property belonging to the village. (1993 Code p. 42 § 402.1-52)
ARTICLE C.  OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE, SAFETY AND HEALTH
SECTION:
5-3C-1: Disturbing Assemblies
5-3C-2: Sports And Games Disturbing The Public
5-3C-3: Loitering
5-3C-4: Open Burning
5-3C-5: False Alarms
5-3C-6: Throwing Stones And Missiles
5-3C-7: Selling Tainted Food
5-3C-8: Amusements On Sundays
5-3C-9: Weapons, Explosives Discharge On Sundays
5-3C-10: Concealed Weapons
5-3C-11: Discharge Of Weapons; Fireworks; Bonfires
5-3C-1: DISTURBING ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   No person shall wilfully interrupt or disturb any school or other
assembly of people met for a lawful purpose. (1993 Code p. 34 § 402.1-8)
   B.   No person shall, by any menace, profane swearing, vulgar language, or
any disorderly or unusual conduct, interrupt or disturb any assembly of people
met for worship. (1993 Code p. 34 § 402.1-7; amd. 2006 Code)
5-3C-2: SPORTS AND GAMES DISTURBING THE PUBLIC:
No person shall, at any place in the village, throw stones, play ball, fly
kites or engage in any sport or exercise likely to frighten horses, injure
passengers, interfere with the passage of vehicles, or obstruct the business of
other persons. (1993 Code p. 36 § 402.1-20; amd. 2006 Code)
5-3C-3: LOITERING:
   A.   No person shall, with other persons, congregate about or upon any
stairway, doorway, window or in front of any business or dwelling house,
lecture room, church, or elsewhere, and by so doing, obstruct or interfere with
the free passage of persons entering, or occupying any such building or
premises, nor by his language, conversation or conduct, annoy, insult or
disturb persons passing along the streets or alleys, or occupying, residing or
doing business in any of said houses or places. (1993 Code p. 37a § 402.1-25)
   B.   No person shall loiter about the street corners or in the vicinity of
any church, schoolhouse, hotel, hall, store, shop, or other public place or
building, thereby obstructing any street or sidewalk, or interfering with
public convenience, or interrupting the owner or occupants of such places.
(1993 Code p. 43 § 402.1-54)
5-3C-4: OPEN BURNING 1 :
   A.   Hours; Burning On Public Ways; Supervision:
      1.   Provisions Are Additional: This subsection is in addition to any
county, state or federal regulation on burning in the village. (1993 Code p.
37b Ord., 1993; amd. 2006 Code)
      2.   Prohibited Hours: There shall be no burning in the village between
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
      3.   Burning On Public Ways Prohibited: There shall be no burning on any
village roads or alleys.
      4.   Supervision: All fires must be under the supervision of a person
over the age of fourteen (14) years until the fire is extinguished.
      5.   Application For Exception: Any exception to this subsection must be
applied for in writing and approved by the park and trees committee chair or
the village board.
      6.   Penalty: Any violation of this subsection will subject the violator
to a fine between one hundred dollars ($100.00) and one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). (1993 Code p. 37b Ord., 1993)
   B.   Burning Near Buildings: No person shall burn or set fire to any
combustible matter within one hundred feet (100') of any shed, barn or building
without posting a person over the age of fourteen (14) years to guard the same
until such fire is entirely extinguished. (1993 Code p. 37a § 402.1-27; amd.
2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-3C-11 of this article.
5-3C-5: FALSE ALARMS:
No person shall wilfully make a false alarm of fire by outcry or in any other
way nor shall any person make any false alarm of any kind calculated to disturb
the peace of the village. (1993 Code p. 38 § 402.1-34)
5-3C-6: THROWING STONES AND MISSILES:
No person shall throw or cast any stone or other missile upon or at any
building, tree or other public or private property, or upon any person in any
street, avenue, alley, land, public place, enclosed or unenclosed ground in the
village, nor shall any person aid or abet in the same. (1993 Code p. 39 §
402.1-38)
5-3C-7: SELLING TAINTED FOOD:
No person shall knowingly sell, or expose or offer for sale, any sick or
diseased animal, poultry or fish to be used or eaten for food, or the flesh of
any sick, diseased or otherwise unwholesome dead animal, poultry or fish, or
the flesh of any animal, fowl or fish not usually used or deemed wholesome for
food, or any other unsound or unwholesome provision or article of food or
drink. (1993 Code p. 40 § 402.1-39)
5-3C-8: AMUSEMENTS ON SUNDAYS:
No person or company shall keep open any place of business providing amusement
on Sunday. (1993 Code p. 42 § 402.1-50)
5-3C-9: WEAPONS, EXPLOSIVES DISCHARGE ON SUNDAYS:
No persons shall fire or discharge any cannon, gun, fowling piece, pistol or
firearms of any description without first obtaining permission of the president
or a member of the board of trustees, nor fire, explode, or set off any squibs,
crackers or anything containing powder, or other explosive substances on
Sunday. (1993 Code p. 34 § 402.1-6)
5-3C-10: CONCEALED WEAPONS:
No person, except a peace officer, shall carry or wear under his or her
clothing, or concealed about his or her person, any pistol, revolver, slug
shot, knuckles, bowie knife, dirk knife, dagger or any other dangerous or
deadly weapon without the written permission of the village president or board
of trustees. (1993 Code p. 36 § 402.1-22)
5-3C-11: DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS; FIREWORKS; BONFIRES:
No person shall, in any part of the village, fire or discharge any cannon, gun,
pistol or other firearms, nor set off, fire or explode any torpedo,
firecracker, fireball, rocket or other fireworks whatever, nor make or kindle
any bonfire 1 . However, the discharge of firearms, the setting off or
exploding of fireworks and the making of bonfires upon national holidays and in
the celebration of other public and general events, or the discharge of
firearms by the members of any military company when on parade and in
accordance with the command of the commanding officer, or by any village
officer or other person in the discharge of any legal duty or lawful act, when
the same may be done in such a manner as not to endanger the safety of any
person, or to the injury of any property, shall not be deemed a violation
hereof. (1993 Code p. 39 § 402.1-36)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-3C-4 of this article.
ARTICLE D.  OFFENSES INVOLVING MORALS AND DECENCY
SECTION:
5-3D-1: Public Indecency
5-3D-2: Indecent Exposure; Nudity
5-3D-3: Obscene Publications And Articles
5-3D-4: Graffiti
5-3D-5: Prostitution Houses
5-3D-6: Gambling
5-3D-7: Sleight Of Hand Games
5-3D-8: Vagrants
5-3D-1: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
No person shall be guilty of open lewdness, disorderly conduct, or act of
public indecency tending to debauch the public morals. (1993 Code p. 33 §
402.1-5)
5-3D-2: INDECENT EXPOSURE; NUDITY:
No person, for the purpose of bathing or otherwise, shall appear in any public
place in a state of nudity nor make any indecent exposure of his or her person.
(1993 Code p. 34 § 402.1-9; amd. 2006 Code)
5-3D-3: OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS AND ARTICLES:
No person shall exhibit, sell or offer to sell, give away or offer to give away
any obscene and indecent book, pamphlet, paper, drawing, lithograph, engraving,
picture, daguerreotype, photograph, stereoscopic picture, mold, cast,
instrument, or article of indecent or immoral use. (1993 Code p. 34 § 402.1-10)
5-3D-4: GRAFFITI:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "graffiti" is defined as
any sign, symbol, marking, drawing, name, initial, word, diagram, sketch,
picture, or letter, or combination thereof, placed without the express written
permission of the owner, upon the real or personal property of said owner.
   B.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to place graffiti upon the property of
another, whether publicly or privately owned, real or personal.
   C.   Placement With Owner's Permission: It shall be unlawful for an owner
and/or occupant of property which is in the public view to place or give
permission to place any graffiti on said property if such graffiti incites
violence or the furtherance or proliferation of gang activity by reference to
gang or criminal activity, depicts or expresses obscenity by referring to
sexual activity, or contains defamatory material about a public or private
person or group.
   D.   Removal Required: Upon notification by the village, the owner of
property upon which graffiti has been illegally placed shall remove the
graffiti within five (5) working days of the date of notification. Failure to
remove graffiti within the specified time shall cause summary abatement of the
nuisance, and cost therefor shall be assessed to the owner.
   E.   Compensation And Restitution: The owner of the property shall be
entitled to restitution and compensation for the direct cost incurred in the
repair and restoration of his property to its previous condition from any
person convicted of the offense listed in this section; provided, that the
property owner submits receipts or other evidence of the costs for the removal
or repair of the graffiti; and provided further, that the court enters an order
of restitution.
   F.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian:
      1.   The parent or legal guardian of a juvenile who resides with such
parent or legal guardian is liable for actual damages for the wilful or
malicious acts of such juvenile which cause injury to a person or property. The
juvenile shall be deemed to have committed the offense with the knowledge,
consent, acquiescence and permission of the parent or legal guardian in
violation of this section.
      2.   The parent or legal guardian shall be liable for the fine and
requirement of restitution or reparation imposed by a court upon a juvenile
defendant for violation of this section.
      3.   The sanctions of this subsection shall apply after said parent or
legal guardian shall have received a written notice thereof, either by
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service
with a certificate of personal service returned, from the appropriate law
enforcement official prior to the institution of any judicial sanction or
penalty.
      4.   In any action brought pursuant to the provisions of this section,
the parent or legal guardian shall be made a party defendant. (2006 Code)
5-3D-5: PROSTITUTION HOUSES:
No person shall keep a house of ill fame or assignation or place for the
practice of prostitution or lewdness. No person shall patronize or be an inmate
of the same, nor let, own or be interested in any house, room or other premises
for any such purpose, nor keep a common, ill governed, disorderly house to the
encouragement of idleness, gaming, drinking, fornication or other misbehavior.
(1993 Code p. 34 § 402.1-11)
5-3D-6: GAMBLING:
   A.   Gambling Prohibited: No person shall play for money or other valuable
things at any game with cards, dice, checkers, or at billiards, or with any
other article, instrument or thing whatever, which may be used for the purpose
of playing or betting upon, or winning or losing money, or anything of value,
nor bet on any game others may be playing. (1993 Code p. 35 § 402.1-16)
   B.   Gambling Houses: No person shall keep a common gaming house, nor any
building, place, yard or garden by him or his agent, used and occupied, nor
procure or permit any persons to frequent or to come together to play for money
or other valuable thing at any game, nor keep or rent any such place for any
such purpose. (1993 Code p. 35 § 402.1-17)
5-3D-7: SLEIGHT OF HAND GAMES:
No person shall manage, use or practice any trick, sleight of hand, game or
device whatever with the intent of winning or procuring the property or money
of another person in inducing him to bet, loan, deposit, or stake money on
property upon the result of such trick or game. (1993 Code p. 35 § 402.1-18)
5-3D-8: VAGRANTS:
The following are deemed vagrants:
   A.   Possession Of Burglar Tools: Any person upon whom shall be found any
instrument or thing used for the commission of burglary or for picking locks or
pockets, and who shall fail to give a good account of the possession of the
same. (1993 Code p. 54 § 402.3-2)
   B.   Prostitutes: Any prostitute, courtesan, bawd or lewd person, or any
inmate of any bawdy house or house of prostitution or assignation, brothel or
house of bad repute who shall be wandering about the streets. (1993 Code p. 54
§ 402.3-3; amd. 2006 Code)
ARTICLE E.  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
5-3E-1: Impersonating, Interfering With Officials
5-3E-2: Refusing To Aid In Arrest
5-3E-3: Aid In Escape
5-3E-1: IMPERSONATING, INTERFERING WITH OFFICIALS:
No person shall falsely represent himself to be an officer of the village, nor
without being duly authorized, exercise or attempt to exercise any of the
duties, functions or powers of a village officer, nor hinder, obstruct, resist,
or otherwise interfere with a village officer in the discharge of his official
duties, nor attempt to prevent any such officer from arresting, nor attempt to
rescue from such officer any person in his custody. (1993 Code p. 41 § 402.1-
43)
5-3E-2: REFUSING TO AID IN ARREST:
No person shall refuse to aid in the arrest of any offender when ordered to do
so by any law enforcement official, the village president, or any member of the
village board of trustees. (1993 Code p. 41 § 402.1-45)
5-3E-3: AID IN ESCAPE:
No person shall aid, abet, or encourage the rescue or escape from prison of any
person legally committed thereto, nor supply or attempt to supply any such
person with any weapon or with an implement or means of escape while in prison
or in the legal custody of any officer of the village. (1993 Code p. 42 §
402.1-48)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Dogs
5-4-2: Livestock At Large
5-4-3: Offenses Involving Animals
5-4-4: Dangerous, Vicious Animals
5-4-1: DOGS:
   A.   Definition: The term "dog", as used in this section, shall include dogs
of the male and female sex. (1993 Code p. 91 § 405.1-7)
   B.   Registration Requirements:
      1.   Registration, Collar And Tag Required:
         a.   It shall be the duty of every person owning, keeping or harboring
any dog in the village, annually, to register the same with the county
treasurer and to put and keep on the neck of such dog a collar of leather,
metal, or plastic, having attached thereto the registration tag provided by the
registration herein mentioned. Any dog not having a county license affixed to
the collar shall be impounded by the county dog catcher. (1993 Code p. 90 §
405.1-2)
         b.   No owner or keeper of any dog shall allow or permit such dog to
be within the limits of the village unless the same shall have been registered
as herein required, and unless such a dog shall be provided with such collar,
having attached thereto the check or tag herein mentioned, nor shall any owner
or keeper of any dog permit or allow the same to wear any tag or check other
than that issued for said dog or a tag identical to the one issued. (1993 Code
p. 90 § 405.1-3)
      2.   Unauthorized Removal Of Tag Prohibited: No person shall remove or
cause to be removed the collar, check or tag from any registered dog without
the consent of the owner or keeper thereof. (1993 Code p. 90 § 405.1-4; amd.
2006 Code)
      3.   Failure To Wear Tag; Nuisance Declared; Impoundment: Any dog not
registered as herein required or not provided with a collar having attached
thereto the check or tag as herein provided is hereby declared a nuisance and
shall be taken up by the appropriate law enforcement official and placed in the
village or county pound provided for dogs. (1993 Code p. 90 § 405.1-5)
   C.   Running At Large Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person,
association or corporation to permit any dog owned by such person, association
or corporation to run at large in the village. (1993 Code p. 90 § 405.1-1)
   D.   Leash And Confinement Requirements: All owner(s) or persons in charge
or having custody of any dog within the village shall at all times keep said
dog on a leash and attended by a person of sufficient ability to control the
same, or shall keep said dog fastened to a secure object of sufficient weight
to prevent movement of said animal beyond the limits of the leash or chain, or
shall cause said animal to be confined to a pen or building constructed of
sufficient materials and size to prevent the freedom of said animal. Any
confinement of such animal shall be on the premises owned and controlled by the
owner of said dog or the person in charge of the care and control of said dog.
(1993 Code p. 91 § 405.1-9; amd. 2006 Code)
   E.   Impoundment And Redemption Provisions:
      1.   Authority To Impound: The county animal control warden appointed by
the county board of supervisors shall have the authority to seize any animal
described in this section which is in violation of this section.
      2.   Impoundment Costs; Authority To Destroy Dog: The county animal
control officer shall be authorized to charge the owner of any dog which is
permitted to run at large in violation of this section the sum of two dollars
($2.00) per day for feed and board of said dog and shall be permitted to
destroy said dog if not claimed within seven (7) days after seizure of said
dog. (1993 Code p. 91 § 405.1-10)
      3.   Reclamation, Destruction Of Dogs: Any dog may be released from the
pound by the owner upon proof of ownership at any time within seven (7) days
from the time such dog shall have been impounded, upon the production of a
certificate of registry in force for such dog and upon the payment of all pound
fees. All dogs not so released within such time shall be destroyed by the
appropriate law enforcement official or the county dog catcher or county animal
control officer as the case may be. (1993 Code p. 90 § 405.1-6; p. 91 § 405.1-
10)
   F.   Noisy Dogs 1 : No person shall keep or harbor any dog in the village
which, by loud and frequent or habitual barking, howling, or yelling, shall
annoy or disturb any neighborhood. (1993 Code p. 91 § 405.1-8)
   G.   Penalties: Any person, firm, partnership, association or corporation
violating the provisions of this section shall be fined not less than the
following sums: twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first offense, fifty
dollars ($50.00) for the second offense within the period of twelve (12)
months, and seventy five dollars ($75.00) for the third offense occurring
within twelve (12) months. (1993 Code p. 91 § 405.1-10)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  5-4-3C of this chapter.
5-4-2: LIVESTOCK AT LARGE:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall knowingly or wilfully permit his horses,
mules, sheep, asses, hogs, or cattle to run at large upon any street, lane,
alley, or public grounds of the village. (1993 Code p. 42 § 402.1-49; amd. 2006
Code)
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Violation of this section shall be deemed a
misdemeanor which, if severally or jointly committed by any person or
corporation within the territorial jurisdiction of the village, shall subject
the offender, severally, to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1993 Code p. 33 § 402.1; amd. 2006 Code)
5-4-3: OFFENSES INVOLVING ANIMALS:
   A.   Cruelty: No person shall overload, cruelly beat, ill treat, torture,
mutilate or cruelly kill any animal, or cause or knowingly allow the same to be
done. (1993 Code p. 35 § 402.1-13)
   B.   Animal Fights: No person shall instigate, cause or procure any
dogfight, prizefight, cockfight, or any public or private fighting. (1993 Code
p. 35 § 402.1-14)
   C.   Noisy Animals 1 :
      1.   No person shall in the village keep any dog or other animal shut or
tied up in any yard, house or other place which, by barking, howling or by
other noises, shall disturb the peace and quiet of any person. (1993 Code p.
37a § 402.1-26; amd. 2006 Code)
      2.   No person shall suffer any animal belonging to him to wear a bell to
the annoyance of any other person. (1993 Code p. 39 § 402.1-35)
   D.   Indecent Exhibition Of Animals: No person shall instigate, cause or
procure, or in any manner assist in any indecent exhibition of any animal, nor
exhibit or perform any indecent, immoral, or lewd play or show or
representation of any kind involving animals. (1993 Code p. 34 § 402.1-12; amd.
2006 Code)
   E.   Dead Animals To Be Buried: No person, being the owner or keeper of any
dead animal, shall allow said dead animal to remain within the territorial
jurisdiction of the village without being buried. (1993 Code p. 36 § 402.1-21;
amd. 2006 Code)
   F.   Penalty: Violation of any provision of this section shall be deemed a
misdemeanor which, if severally or jointly committed by any person or
corporation within the territorial jurisdiction of the village, shall subject
the offender, severally, to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1993 Code p. 33 § 402.1; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  5-4-1F of this chapter.
5-4-4: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Definition:
      1.   As used in this section, a "dangerous animal" or "vicious animal"
is:
         a.   Any individual animal that, when unprovoked, inflicts bites and
attacks a human being or other animal either on public or private property.
         b.   Any individual animal with a propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise do any act that
might endanger the safety of human beings, domestic animals or any other
property of another, including, but not limited to, a disposition to mischief
or fierceness which might lead to attack of the foregoing.
         c.   Any individual animal which attacks a human being or domestic
animal without provocation, whether in play, anger or outbreak of untrained
nature.
      2.   No animal shall be deemed "vicious" if it bites, attacks or menaces
a trespasser on the property of its owner, or harms or menaces anyone who has
tormented or abused it, or is a professionally trained animal for law
enforcement or guard duties.
   B.   Dangerous, Vicious Animals Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall keep any vicious animal anywhere in the village.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to permit any vicious animal of any kind to run
at large within the village.
   C.   Authority To Kill:
      1.   The village law enforcement official or any authorized village
official or employee is authorized to kill any dangerous animal of any kind
when it is necessary for the protection of any person or property.
      2.   It shall be lawful for the village law enforcement official or other
authorized village official or employee to kill any vicious animal at large
within the limits of the village which cannot be safely taken up and impounded.
   D.   Responsibility Of Landlord:
      1.   No landlord or landlord's agent shall knowingly permit any tenant to
move a vicious animal into any building or premises owned or controlled by such
landlord or agent.
      2.   No landlord or landlord's agent shall permit any person to keep any
vicious animal in any building or premises owned or controlled by such landlord
or agent.
      3.   Any landlord or agent learning of any vicious animal in any building
or premises owned or controlled by such landlord or agent shall notify the
person having such animal to remove the animal from the village immediately.
   E.   Application And Effect Of Provisions:
      1.   Police Dogs: It is not the intent of this section to prohibit the
village law enforcement official from using any trained dog that may attack
upon command; provided, that each such dog must be in the presence of its
handler or confined in accordance with village policy at all times.
      2.   Impoundment: This section shall not prohibit the temporary
impoundment in a public pound of any animal.
      3.   Rabies Suspects: This section shall not prohibit the holding of any
vicious animal suspected of rabies or any vicious animal that has bitten a
person; provided, that such vicious animal may be held only in a public pound
or in a secure place operated or immediately supervised by a licensed
veterinarian.
   F.   Enforcement And Penalty:
      1.   Nuisance Declared: Any violation of this section is hereby declared
to be a nuisance.
      2.   Remedies: In addition to other relief provided by this section, the
village attorney may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for any
injunction to prohibit the continuation of any violation of this section. Such
application for relief may include the seeking of a temporary restraining
order, temporary injunction or permanent injunction.
      3.   Responsibility For Expenses: The owner of such animal is responsible
for any expenses incurred in connection with the impoundment, supervision and
examination by a veterinarian, inoculations, and if necessary, preparation of
the carcass for laboratory examinations, and fee for the laboratory examination
and disposal of the animal.
      4.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to penalty of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed for each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 5
EXPLOSIVE, FLAMMABLE MATERIALS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Quantity Of Explosives
5-5-3: Storage Of Explosives
5-5-4: Anhydrous Ammonia
5-5-5: Petroleum Tanks
5-5-6: Transporting Explosive, Flammable Materials
5-5-7: Penalty
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
   EXPLOSIVE: Shall include any chemical compound and any mechanical mixture
that is commonly used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and
containing any oxidizing or combustible units or other ingredients in such
proportions, quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, friction,
concussion, percussion or detonation of any part of the compounds or mixtures
may cause sudden generation of highly heated gases so that the resultant
gaseous pressures are capable of producing destructive effects. The term
"explosive" shall include mixed ammunition, fireworks and other manufactured
articles which contain "explosives" as defined herein, but not fuses so
constructed and packed as to render explosion impossible.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Shall include gasoline, naphtha, benzine, kerosene, motor
fuel oil or any other liquid having a flashpoint at seventy degrees Fahrenheit
(70°F) or below, by the closed cup test method.
   VEHICLE: Shall include any vehicle, trailer or semitrailer propelled by
mechanical, motor or muscular power, other than a railroad car on rails. (1993
Code p. 84 § 404.7-6)
5-5-2: QUANTITY OF EXPLOSIVES:
No storekeeper or shopkeeper or other person shall be allowed to have or keep
at any one time, in any building, house shop, store, cellar or warehouse within
the village, more than fifty (50) pounds of powder, nor more than twenty (20)
pounds of dynamite, nitroglycerine or other powerful explosives without a
special permit from the board of trustees, to be entered upon the journal of
their proceedings. (1993 Code p. 84 § 404.7-1)
5-5-3: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES:
All dynamite, nitroglycerine or other powerful explosives shall be kept in an
outbuilding of iron. All powder within the village, when kept in any quantity
exceeding one pound, shall be kept in closed tin or metallic canisters and in
some safe place secure from fire or anything which may ignite the same, and
proper care shall in all cases be taken to prevent accidents arising therefrom.
(1993 Code p. 84 § 404.7-2)
5-5-4: ANHYDROUS AMMONIA:
   A.   Storage Requirements: It shall be the duty of every person, association
or corporation in the village owning, operating or maintaining storage
facilities for anhydrous ammonia to maintain, operate and handle said anhydrous
ammonia and storage facilities for anhydrous ammonia according to the standards
for the storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia prepared by the engineering
standards and standardization committee of the Agricultural Ammonia Institute
as revised June 22, 1953, which said standards are hereby adopted by reference
as an ordinance of the village as if fully recited herein. (1993 Code p. 84 §
404.7-4)
   B.   Location Of Tanks:
      1.   Tanks for the storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia shall be
located outside of buildings other than those expressly constructed for this
purpose.
      2.   Permanent storage shall be located outside of densely populated
areas and shall be located only upon a site approved by the village president
and board of trustees and only upon a site not less than fifty feet (50') from
the property line which may be built upon or from a source of drinking water,
and not less than four hundred feet (400') from any school, hospital, or other
place of public assembly. (1993 Code p. 84 § 404.7-5)
5-5-5: PETROLEUM TANKS:
   A.   Location Prohibitions For Aboveground Tanks: It shall be unlawful for
any person, corporation or association to keep or permit to be kept on his or
its premises or on any demised premises or on any public street, alley or
highway any gasoline storage facility which shall be erected above the ground
level within the following described area within the village:
Blocks One (1) through Twenty-nine (29) inclusive, of the Original Town of
Stronghurst; Blocks Forty (40) through Forty-nine (49) inclusive, of the Second
Addition to the Village of Stronghurst; Blocks Thirty-one (31) through Thirty-
nine (39) inclusive, of the First Addition to the Village of Stronghurst;
Blocks Two (2), Three (3), Four (4), Seven (7), Eight (8), Eleven (11) and
Twelve (12) in Thompson's Addition to the Village of Stronghurst; all of
Dixson's Addition to the Village of Stronghurst; all of Main's Addition to the
Village of Stronghurst; an area bounded by the public road on the North side of
Section  Twenty-five (25) in Stronghurst Township, and the East right of way
line of Cooper Street in the Village of Stronghurst if extended by the two said
aforementioned streets; and an area described as bounded by the public road on
the North side of said Section Twenty-Five (25), the east line of the Original
Town Plat of the Village of Stronghurst and the North side of Maple Street in
the Village of Stronghurst; and an area described as bounded on the North by
the public road on the North side of said Section Twenty-Five (25), the East
line of Chicago Avenue, the North line of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe
Railway right of way and the West right of way line of State Bond Issue Route
94.
(1993 Code p. 71 § 403.5-1)
   B.   Existing Tanks: This section shall in no way prohibit such gasoline
storage facilities as are now used within the village by service stations or
bulk distribution plants as are now located within the village. (1993 Code p.
71 § 403.5-3)
5-5-6: TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVE, FLAMMABLE MATERIALS:
   A.   Explosives:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle containing explosives on
any street in the village except in compliance with the following rules:
         a.   No such vehicle shall be so operated unless it is marked, loaded
and equipped in full compliance with all the laws of the state relating
thereto.
         b.   No trailer shall be used for the conveyance of explosives in the
village, but "semitrailers", as defined by statute, may be so used.
         c.   No vehicle carrying explosives shall be parked or permitted to
stand anywhere in the village longer than is necessary to make a lawful
delivery; provided, that the standing of such vehicle made necessary by
mechanical trouble, traffic conditions, accident or in obedience to the
direction of an appropriate law enforcement official or traffic signals shall
not be considered a violation of this subsection A1. (1993 Code p. 88 § 404.7-
8)
      2.   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle carrying explosives on
any street in the village that is so slippery because of ice, snow or from any
other cause as to be unsafe for driving. (1993 Code p. 88 § 404.7-9)
   B.   Warning Devices: Whenever a vehicle carrying explosives or flammable
liquids is disabled in the village, warning flags or lights shall be placed as
required by statute, and it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle carrying
explosives to remain unattended at any such time. (1993 Code p. 88 § 404.7-10;
amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Work Causing Sparks Or Fire:
      1.   No work involving danger of sparks, fire, friction or concussion
which might cause an explosion shall be performed on any vehicle carrying
explosives, and no such vehicle shall be brought into or kept in any garage in
the village; nor shall such vehicle carrying explosives be permitted to remain
anywhere in the village under any circumstances for a period of more than five
(5) hours.
      2.   No work which involves or is apt to produce sparks or fire shall be
performed on any vehicle tank which has been used in the transportation of any
flammable liquids until all flammable vapors have been effectively cleared from
such tank. (1993 Code p. 88 § 404.7-10)
   D.   Railroad Crossings: No vehicle containing explosives or flammable
liquids shall be driven or propelled across any railroad track unless it is
first brought to a full stop within not less than fifteen (15) nor more than
fifty feet (50') therefrom. (1993 Code p. 89 § 404.7-13; amd. 2006 Code)
   E.   Transporting Nitroglycerine Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to
transport liquid nitroglycerine by "vehicle", as defined in section
5-5-1 of this chapter, anywhere in the village. (1993 Code p. 88 § 404.7-11)
   F.   Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of this section relating to
explosives shall not apply to the transportation of nitroglycerine in capsule
form, or in solution, in quantities not exceeding a total of one ounce
avoirdupois in weight; nor to the lawful transportation of properly packed
ammunition in quantities not exceeding twenty five (25) pounds in weight; nor
to the transportation of ammunition by the armed forces of the United States of
America or the state of Illinois or by law enforcement officials or other
conservators of the peace in the performance of their duties. (1993 Code p. 88
§ 404.7-12)
5-5-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (2006
Code)
CHAPTER 6
DRUGS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Sale, Delivery To/Or Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
5-6-3: Exceptions
5-6-4: Possession, Use Or Delivery Of Cannabis
5-6-5: Seizure And Forfeiture
5-6-6: Penalty
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   CANNABIS: As defined in section 3 of the state of Illinois, cannabis control
act, for the purpose of this chapter.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: As defined in section 102 of the state of Illinois,
Illinois controlled substances act, for the purpose of this chapter.
   DELIVER OR DELIVERY: The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products and materials of any kind, other
than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in section 10 of the
state of Illinois methamphetamine control and community protection act, which
are intended to be used unlawfully in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing
into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the
Illinois cannabis control act or the Illinois controlled substances act. Drug
paraphernalia includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a controlled
substance;
   B.   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in increasing the
potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a controlled substance;
   C.   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private home for
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis
or controlled substances;
   D.   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for cutting
cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
   E.   Objects primarily intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body including, where applicable, the following items:
      1.   Water pipes;
      2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
      3.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
      5.   Carburetor pipes;
      6.   Electric pipes;
      7.   Air driven pipes;
      8.   Chillums;
      9.   Bongs;
      10.   Ice pipes or chillers;
   F.   Any item whose purpose as announced or described by the seller or
possessor is for use in violation of this section. (Ord. 2010-07-05, 7-5-2010)
5-6-2: SALE, DELIVERY TO/OR POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess an item of
drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing cannabis or a controlled substance into the human body,
or for the purpose of preparing cannabis or a controlled substance for that
use. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons legally
authorized to possess hypodermic syringes or needles under the state of
Illinois hypodermic syringes and needles act.
In determining intent under this section the court, administrative hearing
officer or other trier of fact may take into consideration the proximity of the
cannabis or controlled substance to the drug paraphernalia or the presence of
cannabis or controlled substance on or in the drug paraphernalia.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale, sell, or deliver
for any commercial consideration any item of drug paraphernalia.
   C.   Any store, place, or premises from which or in which any item of drug
paraphernalia is kept for sale, offered for sale, sold, or delivered for any
commercial consideration is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
The village attorney, upon direction of the village president and board of
trustees, at the recommendation of the chief of police, may commence an action
in the circuit court of Henderson County to abate the public nuisance as
described herein as outlined under section
4-1-2, "Penalties; Abatement Procedures", of this code. (Ord. 2010-07-05, 7-5-
2010)
5-6-3: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Items marketed for use in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
labeling, or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to
lawful research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale; or
   B.   Items marketed for, or historically and customarily used in connection
with the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance.
   C.   Items exempt under this section shall include, but are not limited to,
garden hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes, and cigarette rolling
papers.
   D.   Items listed in the definition of "drug paraphernalia" in section
5-6-1 of this chapter which are marketed for decorative purposes, when such
items have been rendered completely inoperable or incapable of being used for
any illicit purpose prohibited by this section, state or federal law.
   E.   In determining whether or not a particular item is exempt under this
section, the trier of fact should consider, in addition to all other logically
relevant factors, the following:
      1.   The general, usual, customary, and historical use to which the item
involved has been put;
      2.   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the item
and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the device
upon its functioning;
      3.   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
      4.   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the time
and place of sale or commercial delivery;
      5.   Any national or local advertising, concerning the design, purpose or
use of the item involved, and the entire context in which such advertising
occurs;
      6.   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was displayed
for sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or otherwise
exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made;
      7.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a legitimate
supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      8.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community;
      9.   All reasonable and common sense inferences shall be drawn in favor
of the legitimacy of any transaction or item suspect under the provisions of
this section. (Ord. 2010-07-05, 7-5-2010)
5-6-4: POSSESSION, USE OR DELIVERY OF CANNABIS:
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to possess, use or deliver any
substance containing cannabis. This section shall apply only to possession, use
or delivery of such substance in an amount not exceeding thirty grams (30 g).
(Ord. 2010-07-05, 7-5-2010)
5-6-5: SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE:
Any drug paraphernalia or substance containing cannabis that is the subject of
a violation of this chapter shall be subject to seizure and subject to
forfeiture upon a finding of guilty or finding of liable of any person for a
violation of this chapter. Upon appropriate order of court or administrative
hearing officer, said drug paraphernalia and/or substance containing cannabis
shall be destroyed. (Ord. 2010-07-05, 7-5-2010)
5-6-6: PENALTY:
Any person found to have violated the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
in an amount not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense as outlined under
title 1, chapter 4, "General Penalty", of this code. (Ord. 2010-07-05, 7-5-
2010)
CHAPTER 7
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER OPERATIONS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Establishment Of The Emergency Services And Disaster Agency (ESDA)
5-7-3: ESDA Director
5-7-4: ESDA General Staff
5-7-5: Reserved
5-7-6: Reserved
5-7-7: Reserved
5-7-8: ESDA Functions
5-7-9: Service As Mobile Support Team
5-7-10: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
5-7-11: Emergency Action
5-7-12: Compensation
5-7-13: Reimbursement By State
5-7-14: Purchase And Expenditures
5-7-15: Local Disaster Emergencies
5-7-16: Emergency Operations Center
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
   EOC: ESDA emergency operations center.
   ESDA: Unless otherwise noted, "Stronghurst emergency services and disaster
agency".
   GENERAL STAFF: Organizational body of ESDA responsible for the planning and
operation of the village of Stronghurst's disaster preparedness plan.
   IEMA: Illinois emergency management agency.
   NIMS: National incident management system. (Ord. 2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
5-7-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY (ESDA):
   A.   The village board of Stronghurst hereby creates the village of
Stronghurst emergency services and disaster agency to prevent, minimize,
repair, and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster(s) caused by an
enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action or from natural or manmade
disaster(s), in accordance with the Illinois emergency services and disaster
agency act of 1988 or as directed by Illinois homeland security or Illinois
emergency management agency.
   B.   The ESDA shall consist of the director and members comprising the
general staff. (Ord. 2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
5-7-3: ESDA DIRECTOR:
   A.   The Stronghurst chief of police shall also serve as the ESDA director
unless as appointed by the village president with the confirmation by the
village board of trustees, and shall serve until removed by the village
president.
   B.   The director shall serve as the point of contact for outside agencies
and is responsible for maintaining required documentation or records including,
but not limited to, requirements as outlined under the national incident
management system (NIMS).
   C.   The director shall work closely with the general staff with planning,
coordination, and operation of the village of Stronghurst disaster preparedness
plan as well as assist the Henderson County emergency management coordinator
with coordinating county, state and/or federal responders.
   D.   The director shall actively seek and apply for state and federal grants
or other sources funding for the purchase of equipment, training or other
operational needs of ESDA.
   E.   In the event of the absence, resignation, death, or inability to serve
as the director, the deputy chief of police shall assume command and
responsibility of ESDA or as appointed by the village president until a new
such director is appointed and confirmed as directed in this section. (Ord.
2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
5-7-4: ESDA GENERAL STAFF:
   A.   The general staff shall operate under the "unified command structure"
as outlined under NIMS with each general staff member responsible for response
planning and operation of the Stronghurst disaster preparedness plan.
   B.   It is at the discretion of the representing body to appoint their
representatives to the ESDA general staff.
   C.   The ESDA general staff shall be comprised of, but not limited to, the
following members or representatives from the following local community
services or agencies:
      1.   Stronghurst village board president.
      2.   Director of ESDA.
      3.   Village services:
         a.   ESDA coordinator.
         b.   Public works.
         c.   Records-finance.
      4.   Stronghurst police department.
      5.   MST fire department.
      6.   Henderson County emergency medical services.
      7.   Henderson County emergency management coordinator.
   D.   Any member of the ESDA general staff has the authority to activate in
whole or in part, the Stronghurst disaster preparedness plan or operation of
the ESDA emergency operations center (EOC). If time and response allows, the
ESDA director shall be notified prior to activation, otherwise the ESDA
director shall be notified as soon as possible. (Ord. 2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
5-7-5: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
5-7-6: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
5-7-7: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
5-7-8: ESDA FUNCTIONS:
The ESDA shall perform such emergency services and disaster agency functions
with the village of Stronghurst as shall be prescribed in and by the county or
state emergency management plan and program prepared by the governor and such
orders, rules, and regulations as may be promulgated by the governor, and in
addition shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may be
required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision or municipality, entered into as provided in the Illinois emergency
services and disaster agency act of 1988 1 . (Ord. 2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
5-7-9: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
   A.   Any or all members of the ESDA may be designated as members of a mobile
support team created by the governor or the director of IEMA as provided by
law.
   B.   The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
director of IEMA.
   C.   Any member of the mobile support team who is a village employee or
officer while serving on duty by the governor, or the director of IEMA, shall
receive compensation and have the powers, duties, rights, privileges and
immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is not a
paid employee or officer of the village, while so serving, shall receive from
the state compensation as provided by law. (Ord. 2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
5-7-10: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The ESDA director may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other political
subdivisions or municipalities of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the village board of trustees. (Ord.
2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
5-7-11: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in an actual enemy
attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state or a major
disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action or from manmade
or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the ESDA to cooperate fully with
IEMA and with the governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by
law. (Ord. 2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
5-7-12: COMPENSATION:
Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the director of IEMA, shall receive for the time spent
in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held.
Members who are not such village employees or officers shall receive for such
training time such compensation as may be established by the village board of
trustees. (Ord. 2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
5-7-13: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The state treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the director of the Illinois emergency
management agency, compensation for the services and expenses of members of a
mobile support team while serving outside the village in response to a call by
the governor or the director of IEMA, as provided by law, and any other
reimbursement made by the state incident to ESDA activities as provided by law.
(Ord. 2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
5-7-14: PURCHASE AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   The village board of trustees may, on recommendation of the village
ESDA director, authorize any purchase or contract necessary to place the
village in a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the
explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public
health and safety, protect property, and provide emergency assistance to
victims in the case of such disaster or from manmade or natural disaster.
   B.   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the village board
president is authorized, on behalf of the village to procure such services,
supplies, equipment, or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view
of the exigency, without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or obligations, such
as authorized by the state emergency services and disaster agency act of 1988,
provided that if the village board of trustees meets at such time he shall act
subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body. (Ord. 2011-03-
07, 3-7-2011)
5-7-15: LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCIES:
   A.   A local disaster emergency may be declared only by the principal
executive officer of a political subdivision, member of the ESDA general staff
or his/her interim emergency successor, as provided in section 7 of the
emergency interim executive succession act. It shall not be continued or
renewed for a period in excess of seven (7) days except by or the consent of
the village board of trustees. Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing,
or terminating a local disaster emergency shall be given prompt and general
publicity and shall be filed promptly with the village clerk.
   B.   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster emergency is to
activate the response and recovery aspects of the village's disaster
preparedness plan of any and all applicable local or mutual aid disaster plans
and to authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance thereunder.
   C.   No mutual aid agency or official thereof may declare a local disaster
emergency, unless expressly authorized by the agreement pursuant to which the
agency functions. However, a mutual aid disaster agency shall provide aid and
services in accordance with the agreement pursuant to which it functions. (Ord.
2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
5-7-16: EMERGENCY OPERATIONS CENTER:
The village board of trustees is authorized to designate space within the
village municipal building, or elsewhere, as needed for the safety and
effectiveness of the general staff members and responders and management of the
response and recovery of the village disaster preparedness plan and the
emergency operations center. (Ord. 2011-03-07, 3-7-2011)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted
6-1-2: Speed Limit
6-1-3
: Stop Intersections
6-1-4: Stop Ahead
6-1-5: Yield
6-1-6: Parking And Loading Restrictions
6-1-7: No Parking From Here To Corner
6-1-8: U-Turns
6-1-9: No U-Turns
6-1-10: Riding On, Driving On, And Obstructing Sidewalks
6-1-11: Enforcement
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100
et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the village. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this title. (Ord. 2010-1, 3-1-2010)
6-1-2: SPEED LIMIT:
No person shall drive or operate a motor vehicle upon any public street or
alley in the village at a speed in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour.
Street/Location
Street/Location
Broadway/Maple
Court Street/Commercial
Maple/Commercial
North/Illinois Route 94
100 block South Logan
100 block West Dixon
200 block East North Street
200 block South Logan
300 block East Dixon
300 block East Nichols
300 block South E Street
400 block West Dixon
400 block West North Street
500 block 1st Street
500 block West Dixon
 
(Ord. 2010-1, 3-1-2010)
6-1-3: STOP INTERSECTIONS:
Street Intersection Direction Of Travel
Street Intersection   Direction Of Travel
Broadway/Main         East/west
Broadway/Maple        East/west
Broadway/Nichols      East/west
Broadway/North        West
Chestnut/Elizabeth    West
Commercial/Dixson     North/south
Cooper/Dixson         South
Court/Broadway        East/west
Court/Mary            North/south
Court/South           West on Court
Dixson/Broadway       North/south/east/west
Dixson/Division       North/south
Dixson/Mary           North/south
Dixson/South          West on Dixson and South
Elizabeth/Dixson      North/south/east/west
Elizabeth/Main        North/south/east/west
Elizabeth/Maple       East/west
Elizabeth/Nichols     East/west
Elizabeth/South       South
Jones/South           North
Logan/South           North/south
Main/Commercial       North
Main/Mary             North
Nichols/Logan         West
Nichols/Mary          North/south
North/Elizabeth       North/south/east/west
Oakwood Drive/Harmony North
Oakwood Drive/Logan   East
South/Broadway        East/west
Surrey Lane/Dixson    East
 
(Ord. 2011-1, 11-7-2011)
6-1-4: STOP AHEAD:
 
Street Intersection Direction Of Travel
500 block Harmony   East
 
(Ord. 2010-1, 3-1-2010)
6-1-5: YIELD:
Street Intersection Direction Of Travel
Street Intersection    Direction Of Travel
Broadway/Chestnut      East
Broadway/Jones         South
Broadway/North         East
Broadway/South         North
Commercial/Court       North/south
Commercial/Nichols     North/south
Commercial/North       North
Jones/Division         South
Jones/Mary             South
Main/Division          North/south
Main/Logan             North/south
Maple/Commercial       South
Maple/Mary             North/south
Mary/North             North
Mary/South             North/south
North Route 94         North
Surrey Lane/Harmony    South
2nd Avenue/East Street East/west
 
(Ord. 2011-1, 11-7-2011)
6-1-6: PARKING AND LOADING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No Parking Streets: The following are designated no parking areas and
no parking signs shall be placed at the appropriate locations:
 
Location
Dead end at 318 Logan Street
South side of Jones Street from the middle school to Illinois Route 94
 
   B.   Angle Parking On Certain Streets: It shall be unlawful for any person
to leave any motor vehicle parked on Broadway Street between Nichols Street and
the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway unless said vehicle is parked at the
side of the street at an angle of about forty five degrees (45°) to the curb,
the right side of the vehicle being nearest the curb.
   C.   Time Limit Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle on the following streets for a period exceeding twenty four (24)
continuous hours; provided, however, it shall be unlawful for any person
engaged in a business in the village to park a vehicle on the following
described portions of the streets in the village for a period exceeding five
(5) successive hours:
Broadway Street between its intersection with the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe
Railroad and the intersection of Broadway Street with Dixon Street.
Main Street between its intersection with Division Street and the intersection
of Main Street with State Bond Issue Route 94.
Nichols Street and its intersection with Mary Street.
   D.   Parking Farm Vehicles And Vehicles With Excess Length: It shall be
unlawful for any motor vehicle with an overall length, including load,
exceeding twenty feet (20'), or any farm implement to be parked on the
following streets in the village:
The portion of Broadway Street between the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe
Railroad and the intersection of Broadway Street with Nichols Street.
   E.   Bus Loading And Student Drop Off/Pick Up Zones: The following are bus
loading and student drop off/pick up zones in the village:
South Street: The south curb line of South Street in front of the school near
the semicircle drive is a bus loading zone. The zone shall run approximately
fifty five feet (55') west from the crosswalk and stop ten feet (10') east of
the fire hydrant located on the corner of the semicircle drive. The student
drop off/pick up zone shall run approximately one hundred forty feet (140')
north of the crosswalk to the alley on the south curb line of South Street.
(Ord. 2010-1, 3-1-2010)
   F.   Handicapped Parking Spaces:
      1.   The first two (2) available spaces south of the west driveway of
Fisher's Food Center at approximately 109 South Broadway on the east side of
Broadway Street in the village of Stronghurst is hereby designated as
handicapped person parking only.
      2.   The parking space centered in front of the Antiquity at 113 South
Broadway and Bygones & Buds at 115 South Broadway on the east side of Broadway
Street in the village of Stronghurst is hereby designated as handicapped person
parking only.
      3.   The village clerk is requested to notify the superintendent of
streets of this designation, and the superintendent of streets shall thereupon
place an appropriate sign at such locations, noting that such spaces are
parking for a designated handicapped person or persons only. No person not
possessing a village or state sticker or license authorizing them to park in
handicapped person parking, properly affixed to their vehicle, shall park in
such spaces.
      4.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of
this subsection F shall be subject to punishment by a fine of seventy five
dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 2007-0108, 1-8-2007; amd. Ord. 2010-1, 3-1-2010)
6-1-7: NO PARKING FROM HERE TO CORNER:
 
Street Intersection    Direction Of Travel
Elizabeth/North Street North/east/west (both lanes of travel) (approximate
                       distance 75 feet)
 
(Ord. 2010-1, 3-1-2010)
6-1-8: U-TURNS:
   A.   Vehicles crossing from one side of the street to the other shall do so
by turning to left so as to head in the same direction as the traffic on that
side of the street toward which the crossing is made, and when the street is
congested with traffic, such vehicles shall go to the intersection before
turning.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle on Broadway Street in the
village between Nichols Street and the right of way of the Atchison, Topeka and
Santa Fe Railroad to enter a parking area on the side of the street in the
opposite lane without first entering an intersection and making a U-turn in
order to reverse the direction of said vehicle. No vehicle shall enter a
parking space adjacent to the opposite lane of traffic of said vehicle. For the
purposes of this subsection, entry into a parking space by a vehicle on the
side of the street opposite the lane of traffic of said vehicle shall be
construed as an illegal turn. No vehicle shall back into an intersection.
   C.   U-turns shall be permitted at the following intersections:
      Main Street and Broadway Street.
      Nichols Street and Broadway Street.
      The right of way of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railroad on
Broadway Street. (Ord. 2010-1, 3-1-2010)
6-1-9: NO U-TURNS:
 
Street Intersection   Direction Of Travel
Broadway/South Street South
 
(Ord. 2010-1, 3-1-2010)
6-1-10: RIDING ON, DRIVING ON, AND OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS:
No person shall lead, ride or drive or place any beast of burden or other
animal or any vehicle on any sidewalk or footpath otherwise than in going into
or out of premises owned by himself or his employer, nor in any manner injure
or destroy or unnecessarily obstruct the same. (Ord. 2010-1, 3-1-2010)
6-1-11: ENFORCEMENT:
Violations of this chapter may be enforced as outlined under the Illinois
vehicle code or as a village ordinance citation for nonmoving violations only
as outlined in the Illinois vehicle code. It shall be at the discretion of the
arresting officer to enter the violation as an ordinance violation or as a
violation of the Illinois vehicle code. Violations of this chapter will have a
minimum fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense and
may be increased in twenty five dollar ($25.00) increments for repeated
violations. The violator may plead "guilty" for the issued ordinance violation
and may pay the fine in person or by mail to the office of the village clerk by
the "fines due date" as indicated on the ordinance citation. The violator may
plead "not guilty" and request a court hearing to be scheduled at the Henderson
County courthouse. Such requests shall be submitted by the "fines due date". At
that time the violator shall be notified by mail of the scheduled court date.
Pending disposition of the court's ruling, the violator shall be subject to the
original fine and/or all court costs including all village attorney fees. (Ord.
2010-1, 3-1-2010)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLE TOWING AND IMPOUND
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Violations Authorizing Impound
6-2-3: Seizure And Impound
6-2-4: Administrative Hearing
6-2-5: Disposition Of Impounded Motor Vehicle
6-2-6: Motor Vehicle Possession
6-2-7: Towing Agency
6-2-8: Refund Of Administrative Fee
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   BUSINESS DAY: Days and hours of operation as posted in front of municipal
building.
   LEVEL 1 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE: Fine, cost, or bond of impound shall be five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
   LEVEL 2 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE: Fine, cost, or bond of impound shall be two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle that is self-propelled, including, but not
limited to, automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles, ATVs, scooters, watercraft,
farm vehicles and/or may include equipment trailers.
   OWNER OF RECORD: The record titleholder(s) of motor vehicle as registered
with the Illinois secretary of state, state of Illinois; or if not registered
in Illinois, the particular state where the motor vehicle is registered. If the
owner of record can not be positively identified, the operator of the motor
vehicle will be therefore considered as the "owner of record" until the titled
holder is positively identified.
   TOW-STORAGE FEE: Fee that may be charged by the tow or storage company for
tow, removal and/or storage of vehicle. This fee shall be considered separate
and in addition to any administrative fees, fines or incarceration responsible
to the owner of record. (Ord. 2010-11-01, 11-1-2010)
6-2-2: VIOLATIONS AUTHORIZING IMPOUND:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall be in addition to and shall not
replace or otherwise abrogate any existing state or federal law or village
ordinance that relates to the seizure and/or impoundment of motor vehicles, and
any penalty provided herein shall be in addition to any and all penalties that
may be assessed or imposed by a court for violation of any criminal offense or
local ordinance violation offense.
   B.   Any motor vehicle, operated/possessed by the owner of record or with
the express or implied permission of the owner of record, that is used in
connection with the following violations, including all issued state and
federal warrants for arrest, shall be subject to seizure and impoundment by the
village of Stronghurst, and the owner of record of said motor vehicle, shall be
liable to the village for a level 1 administrative fee ($500.00), as provided
for in this chapter, in addition to any additional fines, court fees,
incarceration, towing and storage fees as hereinafter provided.
State Statute Violation
State Statute       Violation
625 ILCS 5/6-303    Driving while license suspended/revoked
625 ILCS 5/11-204   Fleeing or attempting to elude a peace officer
625 ILCS 5/11-501   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
625 ILCS 5/11-503   Reckless driving or aggravated reckless driving
625 ILCS 5/11-506   Street racing
625 ILCS 5/11-601.5 Speeding in excess of 35 mph - class A misdemeanor
720 ILCS 5/10-1     Kidnapping
720 ILCS 5/10-3     Unlawful restraint
720 ILCS 5/10-5     Child abduction
720 ILCS 5/11-6     Indecent solicitation of a child
720 ILCS 5/12-2     Aggravated assault
720 ILCS 5/12-3.05  Aggravated battery
720 ILCS 5/18-1     Robbery
720 ILCS 5/18-2     Armed robbery
720 ILCS 5/19-1     Burglary
720 ILCS 5/19-3     Residential burglary
720 ILCS 5/20-1     Arson
720 ILCS 5/20-2     Possession of explosives or incendiary devices
720 ILCS 5/21-1     Criminal damage to property
720 ILCS 5/24-1     Unlawful use of a weapon
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
720 ILCS 5/24-3.3   Unlawful sale or delivery of firearms on the premises of a
                    school
720 ILCS 5/25-1     Mob action
720 ILCS 550/4      Possession of cannabis
720 ILCS 550/5      Manufacture, delivery or possession with intent to deliver
                    or manufacture cannabis
720 ILCS 550/5.2    Delivery of cannabis on school grounds
720 ILCS 570/402    Possession of a controlled substance
720 ILCS 600/3.5    Possession of drug paraphernalia
720 ILCS 646/15     Participation in methamphetamine manufacturing
720 ILCS 646/20     Methamphetamine precursor
720 ILCS 646/25     Anhydrous ammonia
720 ILCS 646/60     Methamphetamine possession
 
   C.   Any motor vehicle, operated/possessed by the owner of record or with
the express or implied permission of the owner of record, that is not used in
connection with any violations not listed in subsection B of this section,
involving motor vehicles, may still result in seizure and impoundment by the
village, the owner of record of said motor vehicle, shall be liable to the
village for a level 2 administrative fee ($250.00), as provided for in this
chapter, in addition to any additional fines, court fees, incarceration, towing
and storage fees as hereinafter provided.
Village Code Section Violation
Village Code Section Violation
4-1-1C               Obstructing public or private ways
4-1-1K               Junked, inoperable vehicles
5-3B-1A/B            Damaging property-generally
5-3B-6               Obstructing public ways
5-3B-11A/B           Trespasses
5-3B-11-1            Trespass to damage property
5-3C-9               Weapons, explosive discharge on Sunday
5-6-2                Sale, delivery to/or possession of drug paraphernalia
5-6-4                Possession, use or delivery of cannabis
6-1-6A               No parking streets
6-1-6B               Angle parking on certain streets
6-1-6C               Time limit parking
6-1-6D               Parking farm vehicles and vehicles with excess length
6-1-6E               Bus loading and student drop off/pick up zones
6-1-7                No parking from here to corner
6-1-10               Riding on, driving on and obstructing sidewalks
7-2-1A/B             Curfew
8-3-6                Village landfill
 
(Ord. 2016-01-04, 1-4-2016)
6-2-3: SEIZURE AND IMPOUND:
   A.   Whenever a police officer has reason to believe that a motor vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police officer
shall provide for the towing of the motor vehicle to an approved facility by
the village. This may include removing the motor vehicle from the scene of the
arrest by a police officer and stored on village property. In this
circumstance, the owner of record shall not be charged a "towing or storage"
fee. This chapter shall not apply if the motor vehicle used in the violation
was stolen at the time and the theft was reported to the appropriate police
authorities within twenty four (24) hours after the theft was discovered or
reasonably should have been discovered.
   B.   The police officer shall notify any person identifying him or herself
as the owner of the motor vehicle or any person who is found to be in control
of the motor vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, if there is such a
person, of the fact of the seizure and impoundment of the motor vehicle and of
the owner of record's right to request an administrative hearing to be
conducted under this chapter. (Ord. 2010-11-01, 11-1-2010)
6-2-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   Within five (5) business days after a motor vehicle is seized and
impounded pursuant to this chapter, the village shall notify by personal
service or by certified mail to the owner of record of the owner's right to
request a hearing to challenge whether a violation of this chapter has
occurred. The owner of record seeking a hearing must file a written request for
a hearing with the chief of police, or his designee, no later than ten (10)
business days after notice was mailed. The hearing date must be scheduled no
more than twenty (20) business days after the request for a hearing has been
filed. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the hearing. The formal rules of evidence shall not apply at the
hearing and hearsay evidence shall be admissible.
   B.   If, after the hearing, the hearing officer determines by a
preponderance of the evidence that the motor vehicle was used in violation of
this chapter, then the hearing officer shall enter an order finding the owner
of record of the motor vehicle liable to the village for the applicable
administrative fee.
   C.   If, after a hearing, the hearing officer does not determine by a
preponderance of the evidence that the motor vehicle was used in such a
violation, the hearing officer shall enter an order finding for the owner and
for the return of the motor vehicle.
   D.   If the owner of record requests a hearing but fails to appear at the
hearing or fails to request a hearing in a timely manner, the owner of record
shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to a hearing and the hearing
officer shall enter a default order in favor of the village in the amount of
the administrative fee. However, if the owner of record pays such
administrative fee and the motor vehicle is returned to the owner, no default
order need be entered if the owner is informed of his or her right to a hearing
and signs a written waiver, in which case an order of liability shall be deemed
to have been made when the village receives the written waiver.
   E.   If a bond in the amount equal to the applicable administrative fee is
posted with the police department, the impounded motor vehicle shall be
released to the owner of record. The owner of the motor vehicle shall still be
liable to the towing agent for any applicable towing fees.
   F.   If an administrative fee is imposed for a violation of this chapter,
the bond will be forfeited to the village; however if a violation of this
chapter is not proven by preponderance of the evidence, the bond will be
returned to the person posting the bond. All bond money posted pursuant to this
chapter shall be held by the village until the hearing officer issues a
decision, or, if there is a judicial review, until the court of jurisdiction
issues its orders.
   G.   Any party aggrieved by a final decision of the hearing officer may
appeal that decision pursuant to any applicable statutes or procedures under
the laws of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 2010-11-01, 11-1-2010)
6-2-5: DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED MOTOR VEHICLE:
An administrative fee imposed pursuant to this chapter shall constitute a debt
due and owing the village. A motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter
shall remain impounded until:
   A.   The administrative fee is paid to the village and all applicable towing
and storage fees are paid to the towing agent, in which case the owner of
record shall be given possession of the motor vehicle; or
   B.   A bond in an amount equal to the applicable administrative fee is
posted with the police department and all applicable towing fees are paid to
the towing agent, at which time the motor vehicle will be released to the owner
of record; or
   C.   The motor vehicle is deemed abandoned in which case the motor vehicle
shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of
abandoned motor vehicles. (Ord. 2010-11-01, 11-1-2010)
6-2-6: MOTOR VEHICLE POSSESSION:
Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed within thirty (30) days after the
expiration of the time during which the owner of record may seek judicial
review of the village's action under this chapter, or the time at which a final
judgment is rendered against an owner of record who is in default, may be
disposed of as an unclaimed motor vehicle as provided by law, provided,
however, that where proceedings have been instituted under state or federal
drug asset forfeiture laws, the subject motor vehicle may not be disposed of by
the village except as consistent with those proceedings. (Ord. 2010-11-01, 11-
1-2010)
6-2-7: TOWING AGENCY:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the towing or storage company in possession of
the motor vehicle to obtain documentation issued by the police department
confirming compliance with foregoing requirements, and retain photocopies of
that documentation in their files for a period of not less than six (6) months
following release of the motor vehicle. The foregoing information shall be made
available to the authorities of the village of Stronghurst for inspection and
copying, upon their request, by the towing or storage company. The towing or
storage company is prohibited from releasing any motor vehicle they may tow
from within the village involving the police department until directed by a
representative of the department and/or unless they obtain documentation as
aforesaid.
   B.   The towing or storage company shall be entitled to receive a reasonable
fee from the owner or person entitled to possession of any such motor vehicle
prior to the release of the motor vehicle. The fee shall be to cover the cost
of removing said motor vehicle and, in addition thereto, the cost of storage of
said motor vehicle for each day or fraction thereof that said motor vehicle
shall have remained stored.
   C.   The fees in this section shall be in addition to any fee levied or
assessed against the owner or operator of said motor vehicle by reason of
violation of any ordinance or statute and any arrest which may have resulted
from such violation. (Ord. 2010-11-01, 11-1-2010)
6-2-8: REFUND OF ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
In the event a judgment of not guilty is entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction on all underlying charges that could have resulted in the
impoundment of a motor vehicle, then upon within thirty (30) days of
presentation of a certified copy of said judgment to the village police
department, any administrative fees or posted bonds obtained by the village
shall be refunded to the paying party. The village is not responsible for the
refund of any/all towing and/or storage fees. (Ord. 2010-11-01, 11-1-2010)
CHAPTER 3
OPERATION OF NONHIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Specifications
6-3-3: Minimum Vehicle Requirements
6-3-4: Vehicle Inspection For Approved Use
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
   GOLF CART: A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
   NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLE: A self-propelled, electric powered, four (4) wheeled
motor vehicle (or a self-propelled, gasoline powered, 4 wheeled motor vehicle
with an engine displacement under 1,200 cubic centimeters) that is capable of
attaining in one mile a speed of more than twenty (20) miles per hour, but not
more than twenty five (25) miles per hour, and which does not conform to
federal regulations under title 49 CFR part 571.500.
   RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Any motorized off highway device designed
to travel primarily off highway, sixty four inches (64") or less in width,
having a manufacturer's dry weight of two thousand (2,000) pounds or less,
traveling on four (4) or more nonhighway tires, designed with a nonstraddle
seat and a steering wheel for steering control, except equipment such as lawn
mowers. (Ord. 2011-06-06, 6-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2017-01-02, 1-2-2017)
6-3-2: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   The village of Stronghurst, through enforcement through the Stronghurst
police department, may restrict the types of nonhighway vehicles that are
authorized for use on village streets, alleys, and/or roadways.
   B.   Nonhighway vehicles are subject to the same speed limits and traffic
regulations as normal motor vehicles.
   C.   Operators of nonhighway vehicles must have a valid state issued
driver's license.
   D.   Operators of nonhighway vehicles may not cross Illinois Route 94.
   E.   This chapter does not include vehicles used and/or considered as
neighborhood vehicles, off highway, recreational off highway vehicles, and/or
farm related vehicles except as outlined under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11. (Ord. 2011-06-06, 6-6-2011)
6-3-3: MINIMUM VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum vehicle requirements include the following:
   Brake lights
   Brakes
   Headlight (visible 500 feet)
   Rearview mirror
   Red reflectorized warning devices in front and rear
   Red taillight (visible 100 feet)
   Steering apparatus
   Turn signals
   B.   Headlights and taillights are required to be on during use.
   C.   All nonhighway vehicles are subject to mandatory insurance requirements
(either auto or home policy). (Ord. 2011-06-06, 6-6-2011)
6-3-4: VEHICLE INSPECTION FOR APPROVED USE:
   A.   All nonhighway vehicles must be inspected by the Stronghurst police
department certifying that the vehicle has met all minimum requirements prior
to use on village streets, alleys and/or roadways.
   B.   Once approved, the nonhighway vehicle will be issued a sticker that
must be clearly displayed at all times during operation while the nonhighway
vehicle inspection sheet shall remain on file with the Stronghurst police
department.
All other specifications and/or requirements not included or covered under this
chapter shall be governed as outlined under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-1426.1. (Ord. 2011-06-06, 6-6-2011)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Street Grade
7-1-2: Compliance With State Law
7-1-3: Procedure To Establish, Alter Or Vacate Streets
7-1-4: Sidewalk Construction And Repair
7-1-5: Excavations
7-1-6: Culverts
7-1-7: Damage To Streets Prohibited
7-1-8: Ice And Snow Removal Required
7-1-1: STREET GRADE:
The survey made by Thomas McClanahan, a civil engineer under the laws of
Illinois in 1895, of the streets of the village and the grade established by
him in said survey, according to the profile and field notes now on file in the
office of the village clerk, is hereby adopted as the grade for streets of the
village and streets abutting thereto. All plats of property in effect at the
effective date hereof are hereby readopted as official plats. (1993 Code p. 60
§ 403.3-16)
7-1-2: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
In all matters pertaining to the laying out of the streets, alleys and highways
in the village, when not otherwise provided by ordinance, the laws of the state
of Illinois relating to the laying out of roads and applicable to counties not
under township organization shall apply. (1993 Code p. 60 § 403.3-15)
7-1-3: PROCEDURE TO ESTABLISH, ALTER OR VACATE STREETS:
   A.   Petition Required: The village board of trustees may alter, widen or
vacate any street, alley or highway, or lay out any new street, alley or
highway within the corporate limits of the village when petitioned by any
number of freeholders, not less than twelve (12), residing within the village.
(1993 Code p. 58 § 403.3-3)
   B.   Contents Of Petition: Said petition shall set forth, in writing, the
description of the street, alley or highway, and what part thereof is to be
altered, widened or vacated; and if for a new street, alley or highway, the
names of the owners of the land, if known, and if not known, it shall be so
stated, over which the street, alley or highway is to pass; the points at which
it is to commence; its general course; and the place at or near which it is to
terminate. (1993 Code p. 58 § 403.3-4)
   C.   Meeting To Consider Action: Whenever the board of trustees shall
receive any such petition as in subsections A and B of this section specified,
they shall fix a time when and a place where they will meet to examine the
route of said street, alley or highway, and hear reasons for and against the
altering, widening, vacating, or laying out the same; and they shall give at
least ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of such meeting by posting
notices in five (5) of the most public places in the village in the vicinity of
the street, alley or highway to be widened, altered, vacated or laid out, or
publish said notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the village. (1993
Code p. 58 § 403.3-5; amd. 2006 Code)
   D.   Ordinance To Vacate: If the petition is simply for the vacation of a
street, alley or highway, and a majority of the board of trustees decide that
the prayer of such petition shall be granted, they shall pass an ordinance
declaring such street, alley or highway to be vacated. (1993 Code p. 58 §
403.3-6)
   E.   Survey For New Street Or Alteration Of Existing Street: If such
petition is for the establishing of a new street, alley or highway, or the
alteration or widening of an existing one, and a majority of the board of
trustees shall be of the opinion that the prayer of the petition should be
granted, they shall cause a survey and a plat of such street, alley or highway
to be made by some competent surveyor who shall report such survey and plat to
the board of trustees, giving the courses and distances and specifying the land
over which such street, alley or highway is to pass; and in which survey and
plat, the board of trustees may make such changes in the termini or width of
such street, alley or highway as in its opinion, the interest or convenience of
the public may require. (1993 Code p. 58 § 403.3-7)
   F.   Costs:
      1.   The board of trustees, before they order any street, alley or
highway to be altered, widened, established or vacated, shall ascertain, as
hereinafter provided, the aggregate amount of damages which the owners of the
land over which such street, alley or highway is to pass shall be entitled by
reason of the location, alteration or widening of such street, alley or
highway; provided, however, that in case an appeal is taken from the assessment
of damages, the board of trustees may, in their discretion, pass an ordinance
altering, widening or establishing any such street, alley or highway, whether
before or after such appeal is determined, in the manner hereinafter provided.
(1993 Code p. 59 § 403.3-8)
      2.   The damages sustained by the owners of such land, by reason of
altering, widening or establishing such street, alley or highway, may be agreed
upon by the owners of such land, if competent to contract, and the board of
trustees, or they may be released by such owners, which release may be
evidenced by acknowledging the plat, or by a dedication attached thereto, or by
a written agreement, either of which shall be a perpetual bar against such
owners, their grantees and assigns for all further claims or damages. (1993
Code p. 59 § 403.3-9)
      3.   In case such damages shall not be agreed upon or otherwise settled,
the same shall be determined according to the provisions of the statutes of the
state. (1993 Code p. 59 § 403.3-10)
      4.   Any person interested in the establishment, alteration or widening
of any street, alley or highway in the village is hereby authorized to offer
inducements to the board of trustees for the establishment, alteration or
widening of the same, by entering into contract with the village, conditioned
upon such establishment, alteration or widening, to pay money or other valuable
things to the village, or to perform any labor, or to construct any grade,
bridge or culvert on any such street, alley or highway which said person may
desire to have established, altered or widened. Any party causing any street or
alley to be dedicated for public use shall pay all of the costs of any grading
or paving or improvement of said public way. In the event a new subdivision
shall be involved, no building permit shall be granted until all streets shall
have been graded and surfaced with oil or bituminous materials, approved by the
board. Also, all sewage facilities shall be installed and approved. (1993 Code
p. 59 § 403.3-11)
      5.   Whenever the amount of damages may have been finally ascertained by
agreement, release or assessment, the payment or tender of the same to the
parties damaged, if known, or if unknown, then depositing for the use and
benefit of such parties in the county treasurer's office, shall be deemed the
final act for the establishing, altering or widening of such street, alley or
highway. (1993 Code p. 60 § 403.3-13)
   G.   Village Limit Lines: Streets, alleys and highways may be altered,
widened or established on the corporation line, and in such cases, the board of
trustees shall act jointly with the commissioners of highways in townships
interested in the laying out, altering or widening of the same as near as is
practicable, under the provisions of the general laws of the state for laying
out roads on town and county lines in counties not under township organization.
(1993 Code p. 60 § 403.3-12)
7-1-4: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR:
   A.   Supervision: All sidewalks on public property in the village shall be
built under the supervision of the superintendent.
   B.   Specifications:
      1.   Each sidewalk shall be at least four feet (4') in width and shall
coincide with the line of the street on which it is built.
      2.   All sidewalks shall be built of concrete, or other permanent
substance, placed on a good and sufficient foundation and placed in a good and
workmanlike manner. (1993 Code p. 57 § 403.2-1)
   C.   Costs: The village shall furnish one-half (1/2) of the cost of
construction and repairing of sidewalks if the abutting and fronting property
owners will pay the balance. (1993 Code p. 57 § 403.2-2)
   D.   New Sidewalks:
      1.   Notice: When the village board finds it necessary to build
additional sidewalks, it shall give notice to the owner of land abutting or
fronting on the proposed sidewalk.
      2.   Costs:
         a.   The owners shall have the right to choose the material for the
sidewalk, and they shall pay one-half (1/2) the cost of construction. (1993
Code p. 57 § 403.2-3)
         b.   Any sidewalk which may be built at the expense of the village
shall be itemized and charged against the lots or parcels of land along which
said sidewalks were constructed by the village, along with the names of owners
and the cost of the fronting or adjacent sidewalks. (1993 Code p. 57 § 403.2-4)
         c.   If the village shall fail to collect the cost of the sidewalk
within thirty (30) days, then the means of collection of the delinquent funds
and the reimbursement of the village treasury shall be as by the statutes of
the state appertaining thereto. (1993 Code p. 57 § 403.2-5)
7-1-5: EXCAVATIONS 1 :
   A.   Permit Required: Any person or corporation making any excavations or
alterations in any street or alley in the village shall secure a permit for the
same from the street and alley committee prior to the commencement of said
work. (1993 Code p. 60 § 403.3-17)
   B.   Restoration Requirements:
      1.   All excavations shall be backfilled with sharp clean sand to within
ten inches (10") at the original surface of the street or alley and with eight
inches (8") of hand tamped road stone and two inches (2") of hand tamped
bituminous material. (1993 Code p. 60 § 403.3-18)
      2.   All contractors connected with any such excavation shall be held
responsible for the proper restoration of said excavation. (1993 Code p. 61 §
403.3-19)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any person failing to obtain a permit as required
hereunder or failing to properly fill said excavation shall be, upon
conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1993 Code p. 61 § 403.3-20; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections 5-3B-7 and 8-1-4 of this code.
7-1-6: CULVERTS:
   A.   Responsibility For Culverts: All culverts placed in the ditches of the
village (except for alleys and other such village property) shall be furnished
by the owner of the property served by said culvert.
   B.   Specifications: All culverts shall be of sufficient strength to hold
any reasonable traffic that might need to cross that ditch. The type and size
of the pipe and the place and depth of the installation shall be approved by
the superintendent of streets and alleys. (Ord. 403.3-25, 3-7-1994)
7-1-7: DAMAGE TO STREETS PROHIBITED 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, plow, disc or in any  manner damage
the surface of any street in the village where the said street has been
surfaced with road oil or bituminous material. Whoever violates the provisions
of this section shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1993 Code p. 81 § 404.6-16; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-3B-7 of this code.
7-1-8: ICE AND SNOW REMOVAL REQUIRED:
It shall be the responsibility of all persons residing in or owning property in
the village to keep all walks bordering their property clear of snow and ice.
(1993 Code p. 57 § 403.2-7; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
VILLAGE PARKS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Curfew
7-2-2: Alcoholic Beverages
7-2-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Hours: A curfew on the village parks shall be in effect as follows:
      1.   From April 1 through September 30, the curfew shall be from ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of each evening and the
succeeding morning.
      2.   From October 1 through March 31, the curfew shall be from nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of each evening and the
succeeding morning. (Ord. 2015-06-01-1, 6-1-2015)
   B.   Compliance With Curfew Regulations: During said curfew, no unauthorized
person shall be permitted to use the village park system for recreational or
any other purposes.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction, be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1993 Code p. 16 Ord. CXI, 7-3-1989; amd.
2006 Code)
7-2-2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful to possess any alcoholic beverage within
the village parks.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction, be
fined a minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and a maximum of seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2015-06-01-2, 6-1-2015)
CHAPTER 3
RAILROADS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Obstructing Public Ways Prohibited
7-3-2: Railroad Crossings
7-3-3: Climbing On Railroad Cars
7-3-1: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED:
No railroad corporation shall obstruct any sidewalk or street by stopping any
train upon, or by leaving any car or locomotive engine standing on its track
where the same intersects or crosses such public street or sidewalk except for
the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers or freight, or for taking on
or setting out cars, or to receive the necessary fuel and water and in no case
to exceed ten (10) minutes for each train, car, or locomotive engine.
Immediately thereafter, for the full period of five (5) minutes, such sidewalk
or street shall not be again obstructed in the manner aforesaid, under fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense prohibited by this section. (1993
Code p. 61 § 403.3-21; amd. 2006 Code)
7-3-2: RAILROAD CROSSINGS:
   A.   Maintenance And Repair Of Crossings: Any railroad company, which may
now or hereafter operate any railroad within or through the limits of the
village, shall construct and maintain safe, commodious and convenient crossings
across the track of such railroad where the same intersects any street, alley,
lane or avenue of the village, the full width of such street, alley, lane or
avenue, and shall also make and maintain sufficient and proper conduits and
gutters to carry off all water under or along such railroad tracks.
   B.   Notice To Repair: The superintendent shall, from time to time, notify
in writing the station agent of the railroad company aforesaid, within what
time and in what manner the village will require the construction or repair of
the crossings, conduits and gutters aforesaid. (1993 Code p. 61 § 403.3-22)
   C.   Failure To Repair: Pursuant to the notice established in subsection B
of this section, the railroad company shall forfeit to the village a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; and upon the persistent refusal of the railroad company to
comply with the notice for a period of thirty (30) days after judgment for the
first and each successive forfeiture, the railroad company shall forfeit to the
village a like sum as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1993 Code p. 61 § 403.3-22; amd. 2006 Code)
7-3-3: CLIMBING ON RAILROAD CARS:
   A.   No person shall climb, jump, step, stand upon, cling to, or in any way
attach himself to any locomotive engine or car, whether standing or in motion,
upon any part of the track of any railroad inside the village limits, unless in
doing so, he shall be acting in compliance with law or by permission under the
lawful rules and regulations of the corporation then owning or managing such
railroad. (1993 Code p. 42 § 402.1-53; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Violation of this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor which, if
severally or jointly committed by any person or corporation within the
territorial jurisdiction of the village, shall subject the offender, severally,
to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1993 Code p. 33 § 402.1; amd. 2006 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Application For Water Service; Permit To Connect; Water Taps
8-1-2: Location Of Fixtures
8-1-3: Specifications
8-1-4: Excavations
8-1-5: Approval Of Plumbing Work
8-1-6: Meters
8-1-7: Hydrants, Sprinklers And Private Fireplugs
8-1-8: Use Of Water During Building Construction
8-1-9: Rates And Charges
8-1-10: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
8-1-11: Disconnection Of Service For Absence From Village
8-1-12: Cross Connection Control
8-1-13: Nonliability Of Village For Interrupted Service Or Damages
8-1-14: Contract With Village
8-1-15: Penalty
8-1-1: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE; PERMIT TO CONNECT; WATER TAPS:
   A.   Permit Required To Connect; Fees: Written authorization shall be
required in all cases where any person, corporation or association shall
connect to the village water system. Any hookup of water shall create a charge
of twenty five dollars ($25.00) to be paid at the time the completed
application sheet is turned in to the collector's office and before the water
is turned on. A transfer of service from one village resident to another
village resident will also create a charge of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
(Ord. 2005-2, 10-3-2005)
   B.   Application For Service: Parties desiring to use water from the village
waterworks shall make written application to the superintendent upon printed
blanks furnished by him, and must subscribe to and agree to be bound by this
chapter.
   C.   Issuance Of Permit: If no valid objection exists, the superintendent
shall issue to the plumber selected by such applicant a permit to perform the
work. (1993 Code p. 63 § 403.4-4; amd. Ord. W403-7-2, 2-1-1988)
   D.   Water Taps: In installing a water service, the village shall tap the
main and insert at such tap a stopcock known as the corporation cock and lay
the service pipe from the main to a point inside the curb line, or within six
feet (6') of the lot line if no curb line is established, and shall place at
such point a stopcock known as the curb cock, within a covered iron box rising
to the surface of the ground. The pipe shall be copper or one hundred sixty
(160) psi plastic/poly. The village shall charge the entity requesting such a
service the amount it shall expend for the time and materials paid to a
nonvillage entity. Other and extra charges shall be made in the event the
connection shall present radical procedures. (Ord. 2017-02-06, 2-6-2017)
   E.   Meter Property Of Village: The meters mentioned herein shall be the
property of and shall belong to the village.
   F.   Limit On Responsibility For Costs: No installation, as above provided,
shall be made by the village for a distance of more than seventy five feet
(75') from the water main unless the added costs are paid by the party applying
for the above service.
   G.   Subdivisions: In the event any person shall make an addition or
subdivision to the village, said subdivider shall pay one-half (1/2) of the
costs of installation of water supply pipes to said addition in a manner to be
specified by the village president and trustees. (1993 Code p. 63 § 403.4-4)
8-1-2: LOCATION OF FIXTURES:
Hydrants, faucets, and any other device which the consumer may adopt for
obtaining water from water pipes must be placed inside the property line, but
the water committee may permit the location of the same along business property
in the street. (1993 Code p. 64 § 403.4-8)
8-1-3: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   All service pipes extending from the corporation cock to the meter
shall be of copper or one hundred sixty (160) psi plastic/poly. All copper pipe
used in such service installations shall be made of the weight known as "extra
strong". (1993 Code p. 56 § 403.1-5; p. 64 § 403.4-11; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   A four inch (4") main shall receive no larger than a five- eighths inch
(5/8") tap; a six inch (6") main shall receive no larger than a three-fourths
inch (3/4") tap; and no tap in any main shall be larger than one inch (1").
Where larger connections are required, two (2) or more taps of the above size
may be made and staggered along the main. All taps shall be at least twenty
four inches (24") apart, and no tap shall be made within twelve inches (12") of
a joint in mains. The corporation cock tapped into the main shall be one-eighth
inch (1/8") smaller than the service pipe therefrom. (1993 Code p. 64 § 403.4-
12)
   C.   Interior plumbing may be of such kind as the applicants desire but must
withstand a pressure of one hundred (100) pounds to the square inch and be
subject to the inspection of the superintendent and approved by him before the
water will be turned on. (1993 Code p. 56 § 403.1-6; p. 64 § 403.4-13)
   D.   In all new plumbing where self-closing cocks are installed, air
chambers must be provided for each outlet, which air chambers must be of
standard size for the outlet. (1993 Code p. 64 § 403.4-14)
   E.   There shall be a stop and waste cock with lever handle attached to
every supply pipe at the point where it enters a building so as to allow the
water to be shut off in freezing weather and the pipes drained. (1993 Code p.
64 § 403.4-15)
8-1-4: EXCAVATIONS 1 :
   A.   Permit Required: No excavation shall be made on a public street or
alley without permission of the superintendent.
   B.   Deposit: Any person who is not a contractor licensed by the village who
intends to make any such installation shall make a deposit of fifty dollars
($50.00) before initiation of such construction project. In the event said
construction project is completed to the satisfaction of the village authority
in charge, said deposit shall be refunded. (1993 Code p. 63 § 403.4-4)
   C.   Manner Of Excavation: In laying and repairing service pipes, the
streets shall be opened in the manner which will occasion the least
inconvenience to the public and admission of the uninterrupted passage of
waters along the gutters of the street. (1993 Code p. 64 § 403.4-16)
   D.   Nighttime Excavations: No excavation in any public place shall be open
overnight except by permission of the superintendent, and where the same shall
be left open, lights shall be provided at such excavations and be kept burning
from dusk to daylight. (1993 Code p. 65 § 403.4-17)
   E.   Open Excavations Over Twenty Four Hours; Improper Work: Should any
excavation in any street, alley or public place be left open for twenty four
(24) hours, except by permission of superintendent, or should the work be
improperly done, the superintendent shall have the right to finish or correct
the work, and the expense thus incurred shall be charged to the plumber whose
work is thus finished or corrected, and shall be paid by such plumber before he
shall be granted another permit. (1993 Code p. 65 § 403.4-18)
   F.   Restoration Of Excavated Area:
      1.   Any person making an excavation in the village for installation of
water mains or water service shall restore the street or alley to its original
condition under the direction of the superintendent. (1993 Code p. 63 § 403.4-
4)
      2.   The street and pavement shall be restored to as good condition as it
was previous to making such excavation and as required by ordinances pertaining
to excavations 2  and all rubbish removed as soon as the work shall be
completed. (1993 Code p. 65 § 403.4-17)
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections 5-3B-7 and 7-1-5 of this code.
2 1. See section
  7-1-5 of this code.
8-1-5: APPROVAL OF PLUMBING WORK:
All plumbing shall be done in the manner required by the superintendent and
shall be approved by him before water shall be turned on, and all fittings and
pipes shall be in like manner subject to his approval, and no work underground
shall be covered until examined and approved by him. (1993 Code p. 65 § 403.4-
19)
8-1-6: METERS:
   A.   Metered Water Required: All water furnished by the village for private
consumption must flow through a meter and will be charged for at the rates
herein established. (1993 Code p. 65 § 403.4-25)
   B.   Reading Meters, Inspections, Repairs And Tests:
      1.   The superintendent and any member of the water committee or person
by them authorized shall have free access at all reasonable hours to the
premises of the consumer for the purpose of reading the meter or inspecting
piping and fittings connected therewith. The meter may be removed at any time
for repairs or testing its accuracy, and when a meter shall have been found
inaccurate in measurement and unfit for further use, such meter shall be
replaced at once with an approved meter. (1993 Code p. 65 § 403.4-27)
      2.   The superintendent shall examine and test any meter furnished by the
village whenever requested to do so by the consumer. Should the meter register
two percent (2%) in excess of the amount of water that passes through it, the
expense of such test shall be borne by the village, but if the meter registers
less than two percent (2%) in excess of the amount of water flowing through it,
a charge of not to exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be made and paid
by the consumer to the village for such test. (1993 Code p. 66 § 403.4-29; amd.
2006 Code)
   C.   Location Of Meters; Obstructions: The occupants of any building or
premises where a meter is located shall keep the same free from obstruction,
and the meter shall be located in an accessible place at all times for reading,
inspection and repairs, and in case of such obstruction, the superintendent may
shut off the water from the premises until the obstruction shall be removed.
(1993 Code p. 66 § 403.4-30)
   D.   Protection Of Meters: If a meter is placed where, under any condition,
it may be exposed to a back pressure of steam or hot water, it shall be
protected therefrom by a check valve. (1993 Code p. 66 § 403.4-31)
   E.   Repair And Replacement Of Meters:
      1.   After meters are once placed in service, no person shall be allowed
to take away, repair, or replace the same except the person duly authorized to
do so by the superintendent or water committee. (1993 Code p. 66 § 403.4-32)
      2.   Such repairs or alterations as the superintendent shall direct shall
be made on all supply pipes, stop cocks and all attachments and fixtures from
the meter to the curb cock at the expense of the consumer. (1993 Code p. 66 §
403.4-33)
   F.   Tampering With, Breaking Seal: No person not authorized by the
superintendent shall tamper with or break the seal of any meter. (1993 Code p.
65 § 403.4-26)
8-1-7: HYDRANTS, SPRINKLERS AND PRIVATE FIREPLUGS:
   A.   Stop Cock Required: No person shall install hydrants, sprinklers or
private fireplugs without a stop cock. (1993 Code p. 65 § 403.4-21)
   B.   Permit Required For Use:
      1.   No person, other than the superintendent, fire chief and/or fire
department personnel, shall open any public hydrant, fireplug, street washer or
other public water outlet except in case of fire, nor take or use water for
private purposes from any such outlet without a permit for such use first being
obtained. (1993 Code p. 65 § 403.4-22; amd. 2006 Code)
      2.   Any water purchased from a fire hydrant must be with permission of
the water department and will be charged at the same rate as residential water.
   C.   No Delegation Of Authority To Open: No person authorized to open
hydrants or valves in public places shall delegate his authority to another,
suffer any other person to take wrenches therefor from his possession or
control or place where the same are kept, except for use by the fire or water
department of the village. (Ord., 10-14-2004)
8-1-8: USE OF WATER DURING BUILDING CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Permit Requirements: Persons intending to build or repair any building
who require water from the waterworks shall make application to the
superintendent, furnishing a certificate of the architect or builder of the
amount and kinds of materials to be used in such work, and the other uses for
which water will be required, and pay the schedule rates therefor. The
Superintendent shall thereupon grant a permit to the applicant for the use of
water for such work to the extent of the work returned by the architect or
builder. Any abuse of this privilege or neglect, to guard against the use of
such water for other than the purposes specified in the permit, shall subject
the applicant to having the water cut off. (1993 Code p. 64 § 403.4-9)
   B.   Supply Of Water; Costs: When connection is made to supply water for
building purposes, the service pipe shall be carried at the expense of the
person holding the permit to the inside of the curb line within six feet (6')
of the street line where a curb cock shall be placed with a pipe leading to the
surface, the faucet of which shall be kept covered and locked when not in use.
When building is completed, the faucet and pipe shall be taken up and the water
shut off at the curb cock. (1993 Code p. 65 § 403.4-20)
8-1-9: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Village Residents: The water rates for the Village are hereby
established to provide a twenty dollar ($20.00) minimum charge for the first
two thousand (2,000) gallons of water used and $0.004 for each additional
gallon used. These rates shall be determined by the water meters installed.
(Ord. 2017-04-03, 4-3-2017, eff. 4-27-2017)
   B.   Agricultural Use: Services for water furnished to special meters on
property within the Village which are used only for the purpose of maintaining
livestock owned and maintained by residents of the Village and maintained
within the Village, and for water furnished at special meters installed within
the Village for such purposes to be used for agricultural purposes of a
commercial nature of the user, shall be charged at water rates only, and no
sewage charge shall be made. Provided however that none of such water shall in
any way be discharged into the public sewer or drain system of the Village.
   C.   Nonresidents Of Village: Nothing herein shall prohibit the practice of
providing water service to nonresidents of the Village to areas contiguous to
the Village. Such charges shall be at the contractual price and conditions
agreed upon between the Village and the consumer. (1993 Code p. 21 Ord. W403-9-
1, 10-5-1987)
   D.   Water Leaks: In the event of a water leak, the customer will be billed
an average of the past six (6) months' water bills, not including the billing
in question, plus a ten dollar ($10.00) charge. This will only be done after it
has been determined by the Village Superintendent that an actual leak does
exist. On future billings, after this initial adjusted billing, if the leak is
not repaired by the water customer, the full amount due the Village will be
chargeable. It is further stipulated that this policy will not be effective
unless the water customer reports to the Village Superintendent the possibility
of the leak, and the Superintendent confirms the existence of such leak. (Ord.,
10-14-2004)
8-1-10: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Payment Of Bills; Penalty And Lien For Nonpayment: All bills for water
service shall be payable monthly or bimonthly as the President and Trustees
shall direct. Any bill not paid by the tenth day of the month following the
month of use, or billing, as the case may be, shall have added thereto the sum
of ten percent (10%) per month as a penalty. In addition thereto, all unpaid
water bills shall constitute a lien against the premises on which installed.
Upon the application for any water facility, the owner of said property shall
be notified in writing by the Village Superintendent, as directed by the
Village President and Trustees. Such notice to the owner of said property shall
state that if any bills for the use of water service shall become delinquent,
the same shall constitute a lien against said premises.
   B.   Change Of Location Of Service:
      1.   Any person moving into a property between the twenty fifth of one
month and the fifth of the following month shall not be charged an extra
minimum charge. At any other time, the hookup fee and at least the minimum
amount will be charged.
      2.   For those who own rental property, there will be two (2) weeks from
the date the renter moves off the premises allowed for cleanup without charge.
Said owner shall have fifteen (15) days to satisfy any service billing. Failure
of the owner to satisfy said billing within the time allowed may result in a
violation or assessment of lien against the premises to be filed against the
owner. (Ord., 10-14-2004)
   C.   Checks Returned For Insufficient Funds: If a check used to satisfy a
bill for water, sewer or any other service provided by the Village is returned
for any reason unpaid, these services will be terminated immediately. If the
check is not taken care of within ten (10) working days, it will be turned over
to the Henderson County State's attorney. A reconnect fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) and a returned check fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00), plus
bank charges, will be charged and must be paid before water service is
restored. (Ord. 2005-2, 10-3-2005)
   D.   Discontinuance Of Service; Reconnection Fee; Grievances: Any water
bill, or bill for water or sewer service, or installation, which remains unpaid
for a period of fifteen (15) days or the twenty fifth day of the month
following the month of use, shall be cause for immediate disconnection of said
service. In such event, the superintendent shall notify the occupant and owner
of said premises, by way of the postal service, of the delinquency. A fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) to reconnect such service shall be charged. The first
notice of delinquency shall notify the responsible party that in the event of
disagreement in regard to the bill for such water service, or for water or
sewer service, the party shall have the right to request a hearing on the same.
If such hearing is requested, the village board water committee shall advise
the complainant of the date, time and place of such hearing, at which time and
place the superintendent shall hear said case on its merits. The chair of the
water committee is hereby appointed hearing officer for such purposes and shall
decide said case and reduce his determination to writing and shall give a copy
of such decision to the complainant in person if such person is present and/or,
within twenty four (24) hours thereafter, mail a copy to the complainant at the
last known address for such person. If the decision shall be adverse to the
complainant, such service shall be terminated not sooner than forty eight (48)
hours after the hour of determination of such matter by the hearing officer.
(Ord. 2015-04-06, 4-6-2015)
   E.   Charges A Lien:
      1.   Whenever a bill for water or sewer service remains unpaid after the
twenty fifth day of the month following the month of use or billing, as the
case may be, the village treasurer shall file with the county recorder of deeds
a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description
of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the
village claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges subsequent to
the period covered by the bill.
2. If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and the
village treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of
the premises who will have ten (10) days within which to satisfy the water or
sewer bill. (Ord. W201, 3-17-1986; amd. 2006 Code)
8-1-11: DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE FOR ABSENCE FROM VILLAGE:
No disconnection of water supply for vacation purposes shall create any
reduction in water and/or sewer charges. In such event, the water supply may be
disconnected by the user with approval of the village, but the minimum monthly
or bimonthly charge for water and sewer services shall be charged. (Ord. W403-
7-2, 2-1-1988; amd. 2006 Code)
8-1-12: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
   A.   Determination Of Necessity Of Backflow Prevention Device; Installation
Required: If, in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment
of the superintendent of water, an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the superintendent
of water will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved
device immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such
an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the
Illinois plumbing code and local regulations.
   B.   Secondary Water Supplies: No person, firm or corporation shall
establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit to be maintained
any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other
than the regular public water supply of the village enters the supply or
distribution system of the village, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency
water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have
been approved by the superintendent of water and the Illinois environmental
protection agency.
   C.   Surveys And Investigations To Determine Hazards: It shall be the duty
of the superintendent of water to cause surveys and investigations to be made
of industrial and other properties served by the public supply to determine
whether actual or potential hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such
surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of public record and shall be
repeated at least every two (2) years, or as often as the superintendent of
water shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys shall be maintained and
available for review for a period of at least five (5) years.
   D.   Entry Powers Of Inspectors: The approved cross connection control
device inspector shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the village for the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of
cross connections, and the water superintendent or his authorized agent shall
have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a
connection to the public water supply or distribution system of the Stronghurst
water department for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the
customer regarding the required cross connection control inspection. On demand,
the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
superintendent of water any information which he may request regarding the
piping system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the superintendent
of water, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connection as provided
in this section.
   E.   Discontinuance Of Service For Violations: The superintendent of water
is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to
the occupant thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connection
in violation of the provisions of this section is known to exist, and to take
such other precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any
danger of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water
service to such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this section, and
until a reconnection fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) is paid to the
village. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
superintendent of water is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
   F.   Contaminated Water; Costs To Consumer: The consumer responsible for
backsiphoned material or contamination through backflow, if contamination of
the potable water supply system occurs through an illegal cross connection or
an improperly installed, maintained or repaired device, or a device which has
been bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply
system. (Ord. C453, 8-4-2003, eff. 8-4-2003)
8-1-13: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE FOR INTERRUPTED SERVICE OR DAMAGES:
No claim shall be made against the village by reason the breakage of any main
water pipe, service pipe, or other fixtures, or for any interruption of the
supply by the occasion of the breakage of machinery or stoppage for repairs,
and the village reserves the right to shut off the water without notice. (1993
Code p. 64 § 403.4-10)
8-1-14: CONTRACT WITH VILLAGE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be a part of the contract of every person,
company or corporation who is supplied with water through the water system of
the village except where special contract with the village is made through the
village board, and the application for water supply shall make this chapter and
all other ordinances and regulations concerning the water supply in the village
a part of such application and be signed by the applicant. (1993 Code p. 66 §
403.4-37)
8-1-15: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, unless
otherwise provided, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1993 Code p. 66 § 403.4-36; amd. 2006
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Use Of Public Systems Required; Certificate Of Compliance
8-2-3: Building Sewers And Connections
8-2-4: Discharges Into Public System
8-2-5: Interceptors
8-2-6: Preliminary Treatment; Flow Equalization
8-2-7: Control Manhole
8-2-8: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
8-2-9: Special Agreements
8-2-10: Protection Of System From Damage
8-2-11: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-2-12: Violation; Penalties
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection
agency.
   BASIC USER CHARGE: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE: A charge levied on all users to improve, extend
or reconstruct the village wastewater facilities.
   COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   COMMERCIAL USER: Shall include transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
   CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of loan, bond, etc., outstanding.
   DIRECTOR: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA: Are defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   FEDERAL ACT: The federal clean water act (33 USC 466 et seq.) as amended
(pub. l. 95-217).
   FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided by title II grants for construction
of treatment works of the act and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of "floatable oil" if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS: Shall include establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or
substance into products.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER: Shall include schools, churches, penal
institutions and users associated with federal, state and local governments.
   LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE: Charge for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvements
costs.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY: An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
   A.   Has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average work
day; or
   B.   Has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow carried by the
municipal system receiving the waste; or
   C.   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the federal act; or
   D.   Is found by the permit issuing authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY: Permissible.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l): A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand
milliliters (1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used
commonly, parts per million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in
reporting the results of water and wastewater analysis.
   NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the administrator, or where appropriated by the director, after enactment of
the federal clean water act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the federal act.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   ppm: Parts per million by weight.
   PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA division
of laboratories manual of laboratory methods.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing .02 pounds of BOD and .024
pounds of suspended solids.
   PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of foods that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sanitary system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed with
village funds.
   REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
"replacement".
   RESIDENTIAL USER: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, and permanent multi-family dwellings.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE: Is used interchangeably with "wastewater".
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   SEWERAGE: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SEWERAGE FUND: The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   SHALL: Mandatory.
   SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
   STATE ACT: The Illinois antipollution bond act of 1970 1 .
   STATE GRANT: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois antipollution
bond act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of state of the
state of Illinois.
   STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SURCHARGE: The assessment, in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge, which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in chapter 2, article A of
this title.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or industrial waste and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of "suspended solids"
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA division of
laboratories manual of laboratory methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
   USER CLASS: The type of user, residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial or industrial, as defined in this section.
   VILLAGE: The village of Stronghurst.
   WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, of course,
it may be a combination of liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE: The monthly or bimonthly charge levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in chapter 2, article A of this title and shall consist of the total
of the basic user charge, the local capital cost and a surcharge, if
applicable.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge; sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "pollution control plant".
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS: Are defined in the water pollution regulations of
Illinois.
   WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
8-2-2: USE OF PUBLIC SYSTEMS REQUIRED; CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Use Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to
be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with this chapter. (Ord., 2-4-1985)
      3.   All sanitary systems within the village shall be connected to the
sanitary sewage disposal system maintained by the village.
      4.   Any system of disposal of human waste or other wastes contemplated
by ordinance W200 creating the wastewater disposal zone shall be connected to
the septic tank furnished by the village. Said connection shall be made at the
expense of the property owner into the system now provided by the village. Any
connection not made as herein provided for or any disposal system not approved
by the village is hereby declared illegal and shall subject the owner thereof
to a fine as hereinafter stated. Each day that said situation shall exist shall
be considered a separate offense. For the purposes of clarity, it is hereby
stated that no privy, open pit, tile drain, septic tank, cesspool, or cesspool
drainfield may be maintained within the village.
   B.   Certificate Of Compliance; Inspections:
      1.   Certificates of compliance of connection of facilities from the
property may be issued: a) by licensed Illinois plumber; or b) by the village
employee designated to make such inspection.
      2.   For the purposes of enabling compliance, the authorized employee of
the village may enter upon any premises within the village to make inspection
of the facilities. (1993 Code p. 22 Ord. Clark 1, 7-6-1988; amd. 2006 Code)
      3.   The village employee making inspection shall secure permission of
the property owner for privilege to inspect. If permission is denied, a written
notice of the proposed date of inspection shall be given to the residents of
said premises by United States mail, twenty four (24) hours prior to the date
for inspection. If permission is still denied, a permit shall be obtained from
the appropriate court having jurisdiction over ordinances of the village. In
such case, all court costs and attorney fees shall be assessed against the
owner of the property.
      4.   Any plumber making an untrue certificate of compliance shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined as herein provided. (1993 Code p. 22
Ord. Clark 1, 7-6-1988)
8-2-3: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with, or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the village
superintendent.
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications: There shall be three (3) classes
of building sewer permits: a) for residential wastewater service; b) for
commercial or institutional/governmental wastewater service; or c) for
industrial wastewater service. In any case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the village superintendent.
      3.   Fee: A permit and inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be
paid to the village at the time the application is filed. The industry, as a
condition of permit authorization, must provide information describing its
wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type of activity.
      4.   Conditions Of Permit: A building sewer permit will only be issued
and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the
downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   B.   Separate Building Sewers Required: A separate and independent building
sewer shall be provided for every building; except, that where one building
stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no sewer is available or
can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended
to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   C.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the village superintendent, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Construction Specifications:
      1.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, water pollution control federation
manual of practice no. 9, and standard specifications for water and sewer main
construction in Illinois shall apply.
      2.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved in accordance with subsection G1 of this section and discharged to
the building sewer.
   E.   Connections To System: The connection of the building sewer into the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
code or other applicable rules and regulations of the village or the procedures
set forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing
Materials, water pollution control federation manual of practice no. 9, and
standard specifications for water and sewer main construction in Illinois. All
such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the village
superintendent before installation.
   F.   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
village.
   G.   Discharges Into System:
      1.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
      2.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   H.   Inspections: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the village superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the village superintendent or his representative.
   I.   Liability For Costs And Expenses: All costs and expenses incident to
the installation and connection of the building sewers shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord., 2-4-1985; amd. 2006 Code)
8-2-4: DISCHARGES INTO PUBLIC SYSTEM:
   A.   Storm And Surface Water Runoff:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
      2.   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the village superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the village
superintendent to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities, or of such size, capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   C.   Restricted Discharges:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the village superintendent that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, or public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the village superintendent will give consideration to such factors as
the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (32
and 150°F) (0 and 65°C).
         c.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric), or greater, shall be subject to the review and
approval of the village superintendent.
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not.
         e.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the village superintendent for such materials.
         f.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the village superintendent as necessary after treatment of the
composite sewage to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
         g.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the village superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
         h.   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
         i.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005
milligrams per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the village
superintendent in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
         j.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 milligrams per liter at any time
except as permitted by the village superintendent in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations.
         k.   Materials which exert or cause:
         (1)    Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
         (2)    Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
         (3)    Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         (4)    Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined in section
8-2-1 of this chapter.
         l.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
      2.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C1 of this section, and/or which
are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June
26, 1978, and any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the village
superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the village superintendent may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of section
8-2-9 of this chapter.
      3.   If the village superintendent permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the village
superintendent and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances and laws. (Ord., 2-4-1985)
8-2-5: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and grit interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
village superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
grit, or other harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the village superintendent, and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord., 2-4-1985)
8-2-6: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT; FLOW EQUALIZATION:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense. (Ord., 2-4-1985)
8-2-7: CONTROL MANHOLE:
Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when required
by the village superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such
manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the village superintendent.
The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be
maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (Ord., 2-4-
1985)
8-2-8: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   B.   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but no less than once per
year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the village at such times and in such a
manner as prescribed by the village. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the village. At such times as
deemed necessary, the village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   C.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA division of laboratories manual of
laboratory methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples. (Ord., 2-4-1985)
8-2-9: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance with
chapter 2, article A of this title, by the industrial concern, provided such
payments are in accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge
system. (Ord., 2-4-1985)
8-2-10: PROTECTION OF SYSTEM FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord., 2-4-
1985)
8-2-11: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Entry Powers; Limitations On Requested Information:
      1.   The village superintendent and other duly authorized employees of
the village, the Illinois environmental protection agency, and the U.S.
environmental protection agency, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The village superintendent or his representative
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries, beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
      2.   The village superintendent and other duly authorized employees or
representative of the village, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all private properties in the village for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said property. All entry and subsequent work, if any, shall be done in
full accordance with the terms of the wastewater disposal zone ordinances of
the village, and laws of the state of Illinois.
   B.   Safety Precautions: While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in subsection A1 of this section, the village
superintendent or duly authorized employees of the village, the Illinois
environmental protection agency, and the U.S. environmental protection agency
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
village employees, and the village shall indemnify the company against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain conditions as required in subsections
8-2-8A and B of this chapter. (Ord., 2-4-1985)
8-2-12: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Time For Compliance: Any person found to be
violating any provision of this chapter, except section
8-2-10, shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: The village may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this chapter. (Ord.,
2-4-1985)
   C.   Misdemeanor Violation; Penalty: Any person who shall continue any
violation beyond the time limit provided for in subsection A of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense. Each day in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord., 2-4-1985; amd. 1993 Code p.
22 Ord. Clark 1, 7-6-1988)
   D.   Liability For Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the village by reasons of such violation.
(Ord., 2-4-1985)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
ARTICLE A.  RATES AND CHARGES 1
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Basis For Service Charges
8-2A-2: Basic User Rate
8-2A-3: Surcharge Rate
8-2A-4: Computation Of Service Charge
8-2A-5: Bills For Service
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  8-1-9B of this title, agricultural users of water are not charged sewer fees.
8-2A-1: BASIS FOR SERVICE CHARGES:
The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the Village shall consist of a basic user charge for
operation and maintenance plus replacement, applicable surcharges and local
capital cost charge composed of a debt service charge and a capital improvement
charge, subject to approval of the Village authorities. No charge shall be made
for a separately metered commercial user who does not use wastewater discharge
treatment facilities.
   A.   Debt Service Charge: The debt service charge is computed by dividing
the annual debt service of all outstanding bonds by the number of users.
Through further divisions, the monthly and/or quarterly debt service charges
can be computed.
   B.   Basic User Charge:
      1.   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
domestic concentrations:
         a.   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l).
         b.   A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred forty milligrams
per liter (240 mg/l).
      2.   The basic user charge shall consist of operation and maintenance
costs plus replacement and shall be computed as follows:
         a.   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated.
         b.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be
required by the approving authority if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered water consumption records.
         c.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the approving authority.
   C.   Local Capital Cost Charge; Debt Service Charge: A debt service charge
of fourteen dollars thirty eight cents ($14.38) per month to each user of the
wastewater facility of the Village is hereby established. (Ord. W201, 3-17-
1986)
8-2A-2: BASIC USER RATE:
There are hereby established a minimum charge and a basic user rate for the use
of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the Village. A
minimum charge of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per month shall be applied to
all users whose water consumption does not exceed two thousand (2,000) gallons
per month. A basic user rate of $0.00172 per gallon shall be applied to all
users for water consumption in excess of two thousand (2,000) gallons per
month. (Ord. 2017-04-03, 4-3-2017, eff. 4-27-2017)
8-2A-3: SURCHARGE RATE:
   A.   Rate Established: The rates of surcharges for BOD5 and SS shall be as
follows:
 
BOD5 $0.0043/1,000 gallons per mg/l over 200
SS   $0.0036/1,000 gallons per mg/l over 240
 
   B.   Computation Of Surcharge: The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling
shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the approving
authority and shall be binding as a basis for surcharges. (Ord. W201, 3-17-
1986)
8-2A-4: COMPUTATION OF SERVICE CHARGE:
The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
CW = CD + CM + (Vu-X) CU + CS
Where:
CW =    Amount of waste service charge ($) per billing period.
CD =    Debt service charge (subsection
8-2A-1C of this article).
CM =    Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement (section
8-2A-2 of this article).
Vu =    Wastewater volume for the billing period.
X =    Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge (section
8-2A-2 of this article).
CU =    Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement (section
8-2A-2 of this article).
CS =    Amount of surcharge (section
8-2A-3 of this article).
(Ord. W201, 3-17-1986)
8-2A-5: BILLS FOR SERVICE 1 :
   A.   Liability For Payment: The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof
and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for
the service to such premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by
the village only upon the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant
and user of the services are jointly and severally liable therefor to the
village.
   B.   Rendition Of Bills: Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the
village treasurer on the fifteenth day of the month succeeding the period for
which the service is billed. (Ord. W201, 3-17-1986)
   C.   Due Date; Penalty: Said rates or charges for service shall be payable
monthly or bimonthly. All sewer bills are due and payable upon receipt. A
penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be added to all bills not paid by the tenth
day of the month following the month of use, or billing, as the case may be.
(Ord. W201, 3-17-1986; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
  1. See subsections
1 8-1-10C, D and E of this title for returned check and delinquent payment
  provisions.
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose
8-3-2: Use Of Village Service
8-3-3: Yard Waste And Recycling
8-3-4: Fees
8-3-5: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
8-3-6: Village Landfill
8-3-1: PURPOSE:
The Village is faced with the difficulty of establishing a fixed garbage
collection fee for an extended period of time due to the garbage contractor's
increasing equipment cost, repair cost, fuel expense, labor, landfill cost and
recycling expenses. It is, therefore, necessary for the Village to establish
the provisions of this chapter. (1993 Code p. 7 Ord. G-1, 3-1-1993)
8-3-2: USE OF VILLAGE SERVICE:
   A.   Residential Use Required: All residences within the Village will
participate in the Villagewide garbage collection service.
   B.   Approval Of Commercial Use: Any business, corporation or association
requesting to be placed on Village garbage collection must first be approved by
the Village Board and the garbage collection contractor. (1993 Code p. 7 Ord.
G-1, 3-1-1993)
8-3-3: YARD WASTE AND RECYCLING:
All residents, businesses, corporations, and organizations shall participate in
proper yard waste removal and recycling programs which are currently in effect.
All recycling programs will be set in compliance with State and Federal
requirements. (1993 Code p. 7 Ord. G-1, 3-1-1993)
8-3-4: FEES:
   A.   Collection Fee: There shall be imposed upon each residential property
within the Village a garbage collection fee of eighteen dollars fifty four
cents ($18.54) per month. (Ord. 2019-05-06-1, 5-6-2019)
   B.   Billing Cost: In addition to the collection fee charged by the garbage
collection contractor for each individual resident, business, corporation, or
association, the Village will charge an additional fifty cents ($0.50) to
offset billing costs. (1993 Code p. 7 Ord. G-1, 3-1-1993)
   C.   Increase In Fees: All increases in garbage collection services made to
the Village shall be immediately passed on to the residences, businesses,
corporations and organizations which are using the Village garbage collection
service. This increase may be made immediately with no written or verbal
forewarning. (1993 Code p. 7 Ord. G-1, 3-1-1993; amd. 2006 Code)
8-3-5: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   The billing of garbage collection shall be made a part of the water and
sewer billings 1  issued by the Village. The same penalties and interest shall
be charged on delinquent garbage collection bills as is charged on water and
sewer bills. (1993 Code p. 7 Ord. G-1, 3-1-1993)
   B.   In the event of failure of any person, association or corporation to
satisfy any charge provided for herein, all water or utility service provided
by the Village on garbage or trash collection shall be suspended until said
charges shall be made current. (1993 Code p. 77 § 404.3-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1-10 and chapter 2, article A of this title.
8-3-6: VILLAGE LANDFILL:
All use of the dumpsite of the Village, located at or near the Southwest
Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section Twenty-four (24), Township Nine (9)
North, Range Five (5) West of the Fourth Principal Meridian, Henderson County,
Illinois, is terminated except for official use by the Village. No deposit of
any waste material, garbage, junk or other substances shall be permitted.
Anyone violating the provisions of this section shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense. (1993 Code p. 11 Ord. 485, 7-2-1984)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Building Permit Required
9-1-3: Special Fire Limit Area
9-1-4: Compliance With State Law
9-1-5: Satellite Dish Location
9-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Codes Adopted: The following codes, published by the International Code
Council, Inc., are hereby adopted as the building codes of the village for the
control of buildings and structures as herein provided; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said building codes
on file in the office of the village are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as if fully set out in this section, with the specific revisions
otherwise noted in this chapter.
International building code (IBC), 2000 edition
International residential code, 2000 edition
International energy conservation code, 2000 edition
International property maintenance code, 2000 edition
International mechanical code, 2000 edition
International fuel gas code, 2000 edition
International plumbing code, 2000 edition and the Illinois state plumbing code,
latest edition, published by the Illinois department of public health
National electrical code, 2002 edition
International fire code, 2000 edition
Life safety code, 2000 edition (NFPA 101)
   B.   Copies On File: Three (3) copies of the codes adopted in this section
are on file in the office of the village clerk for public use and inspection.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of the codes adopted herein
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2006 Code)
9-1-2: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person, association, corporation or combination
thereof to construct, within the following described territory, any building of
any type for storage, residential or commercial purposes without a permit for
the construction of the same from the building permit committee:
Blocks 1 through 29 inclusive, of the Original Town of Stronghurst, Blocks 40
through 49 inclusive, of the Second Addition to the Village of Stronghurst,
Blocks 31 through 39 inclusive of the First Addition to the Village of
Stronghurst; Blocks 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 11, 12 in Thompson's Addition to the Village
of Stronghurst; all of Dixson's Addition to the Village of Stronghurst; all of
Main's Addition to the Village of Stronghurst; an area bounded by the public
road on the North side of Section twenty five (25) in Stronghurst Township, on
the South by Chestnut Street in the Village of Stronghurst and the East right
of way line of Cooper Street in the Village of Stronghurst if extended by the
two (2) aforementioned streets; and an area described as bounded by the public
road on the North side of said Section twenty five (25), the East line of the
Original Town Plat of the Village of Stronghurst and the North side of Maple
Street in the Village of Stronghurst, and an area described as bounded on the
North by the public road on the North side of said Section twenty five (25),
the East line of Chicago Avenue, the North side of the AT&SF Railway right of
way and the West right of way line of State Bond Issue 94, and Town and Country
Subdivisions of the Village as platted, and Porters Additions as platted.
(1993 Code p. 55 § 403.1)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-2-2 of this code.
9-1-3: SPECIAL FIRE LIMIT AREA:
   A.   Area Established: There is a special fire limit area in the village
described as follows:
Beginning on Broadway on Nicholas Street and extending North to Santa Fe right
of way and East from Broadway to the alley in Blocks 8 and 14, and west from
Broadway to the alley in Blocks 9 and 15. Also beginning on Main Street at the
intersection of Mary Street and extending west to the alley in Blocks 8 and 14
extending North from Main Street 75 feet and South from Main Street 75 feet.
   B.   Application Of Provisions: Buildings within said special fire limit
shall be subject to all provisions of this section, but this section shall not
affect standards outside of the special fire limits.
   C.   Construction Requirements: All buildings constructed within special
fire limit area shall be built of fire resistant material, including the roof.
(1993 Code p. 56 § 403.1-3)
9-1-4: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
All buildings and construction within the village must meet specifications set
forth by the statutes of the state of Illinois, in addition to those provisions
herein provided. (1993 Code p. 56 § 403.1-4)
9-1-5: SATELLITE DISH LOCATION:
The placement of any satellite dish or any other equipment designed to receive
telecommunications signals from any object orbiting the earth in front of a
line drawn even with the back side of any residence is hereby prohibited. Any
violator of this section shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code per occurrence. (1993 Code p. 12 Ord., 12-2-1985; amd. 2006
Code)
CHAPTER 2
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS 1
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Park Licensing Requirements
9-2-3: Site And Structure Requirements
9-2-4: Utilities
9-2-5: Location Of Laundry Facilities
9-2-6: Supervision Of Park
9-2-7: Permanent Use Of Mobile Home
9-2-8: Exemptions From Provisions
9-2-9: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections
  10-8-7 and 10-10-4 of this code.
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated
in this section:
   IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME: A mobile home served by individual utilities,
resting on a permanent perimeter foundation which extends below the established
frost depth with the wheels, tongue and hitch removed and the home secured in
compliance with the mobile home tie down act.
   INDIVIDUAL UTILITIES: The provision for each mobile home of: a separate
metered connection to electrical service; separately tapped water service from
an approved public water supply or a separate private water supply; and a
separately tapped connection to an approved public sewer system.
   MOBILE HOME: A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location, or
subsequent locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. The term "mobile home" shall include manufactured homes constructed no
more than eight (8) years from the date of the permit, in accordance with the
federal "national manufactured housing construction and safety standards act of
1974".
   MOBILE HOME PARK: A tract of land or two (2) or more contiguous tracts of
land upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities for five (5) or more
independent mobile homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle, or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile
home park. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude
the tracts of land from common licensure as a mobile home park if they are
maintained and operated jointly. Neither an immobilized mobile home nor a
motorized recreational vehicle shall be construed as being a part of a "mobile
home park".
   PERMANENT HABITATION: A period of two (2) or more months.
   SITE: The lot on which the mobile home is located for permanent habitation.
(2006 Code; amd. Ord. 2009-0803-3, 8-3-2009)
9-2-2: PARK LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to establish, maintain or
operate any mobile home park in the village without first having obtained a
license therefor.
   B.   Application For License: Application for such license shall be made to
the clerk in compliance with village ordinances relating to license
applications 1 , and shall contain the name of the applicant, the location of
the park, the number of mobile homes to be accommodated, the type of mobile
homes to be accommodated, i.e., whether dependent, independent mobile homes, or
both. (1993 Code p. 72 § 403.6-2; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Park Plan: Each application shall be accompanied by a plat or sketch
showing the size and location of all buildings and structures. (1993 Code p. 72
§ 403.6-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 1 of this code.
9-2-3: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area Of Park: All mobile home parks constructed after February 1968
shall have at least two thousand one hundred (2,100) square feet per mobile
home site.
   B.   Area Of Spaces: Each mobile home shall be allotted a site of not less
than one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   C.   Location Of Mobile Home: No mobile home shall be parked closer than
five feet (5') to the side lot lines of a mobile home park or closer than ten
feet (10') to a public street, alley, or building.
   D.   Streets And Driveways:
      1.   Each individual mobile home site shall abut or face on a private or
public street.
      2.   All streets and driveways constructed after February 1968 shall be
at least twenty four feet (24') in width, which space shall have unobstructed
access to a public highway or alley.
      3.   All streets and driveways in every mobile home park shall be
maintained in a passable and reasonably dustproof condition at all times.
   E.   Open Space: There shall be an open space of at least ten feet (10')
between the sides of every mobile home and at least five feet (5') between the
ends of every mobile home. (1993 Code p. 73 § 403.6-7; amd. 2006 Code)
9-2-4: UTILITIES:
   A.   Water Supply: An adequate water supply of pure water for drinking and
domestic purposes from the village water system shall be supplied to meet the
requirements of the mobile home park. Said water shall be obtained from faucets
only, conveniently located in said park. No common drinking cups shall be
permitted. (1993 Code p. 73 § 403.6-8; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Garbage Collection And Removal: It shall be the duty of the owner, his
agent or caretaker to provide for the collection and removal of garbage or
other waste material and to otherwise maintain the park in a clean and sanitary
condition. (1993 Code p. 73 § 403.6-9)
   C.   Lighting: The park shall be kept properly and adequately lighted at all
times so that the grounds will be safe for occupants and visitors. (1993 Code
p. 73 § 403.6-10)
   D.   Additional Sanitary Regulations: In compliance with the provisions of
this chapter, it shall be the duty of the licensee to comply fully with the
provisions of section 9 of the mobile home park act, 210 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 115/9.1 through 115/9.14. (1993 Code p. 73 § 403.6-11; amd. 2006 Code)
9-2-5: LOCATION OF LAUNDRY FACILITIES:
No laundry trays shall be located in toilet rooms or bathrooms in any mobile
home park. (1993 Code p. 73 § 403.6-13; amd. 2006 Code)
9-2-6: SUPERVISION OF PARK:
Each mobile home park, while being operated, shall, at all times, be in the
charge of a responsible attendant who shall be responsible for compliance with
the provisions of this chapter. (1993 Code p. 72 § 403.6-6; amd. 2006 Code)
9-2-7: PERMANENT USE OF MOBILE HOME:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any mobile home used
for human habitation upon any plot of ground in the village except in a
licensed mobile home park, unless such mobile home shall be located on a tract
of ground owned by the person owning said mobile home.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove the wheels or other
transporting device from any mobile home or otherwise affix said mobile home
permanently to the ground so as to prevent ready removal of such mobile home,
unless a permit to do so is obtained as for the construction of a new building.
(1993 Code p. 73 § 403.6-12; amd. 2006 Code)
9-2-8: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the storage of any
mobile home for any length of time when said mobile home is not used for living
or sleeping purposes. (1993 Code p. 73 § 403.6-14; amd. 2006 Code)
9-2-9: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1993
Code p. 73 § 403.6-15; amd. 2006 Code)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Rules And Definitions
10-1-2: Application Of Provisions
10-1-3: Prohibited Building
10-1-4: Separability
10-1-5: Order Of Building; Accessory Buildings
10-1-6: Storage/Shipping Containers
10-1-1: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
To assist in the construction and interpretation of this Title, the following
rules and definitions shall apply to all text within this Title:
   A.   Rules of Construction. The following rules of construction shall apply:
      1.   The particular shall control the general.
      2.   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary. The word “may”
is permissive.
      3.   Words used in the present tense shall include the past tense; and
words used in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
      4.   The phrase “used for” includes “arranged for,” “designed for,”
“intended for,” “maintained for,” and “occupied for.”
   B.   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply:
              1.   A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or building,
              and located on the same lot with such principal use or building. A mobile home
              shall not be considered permissible as an accessory building.
              2.    An "accessory use" includes, but is not limited to the following:
                 a.   A children's playhouse, garden house, and private greenhouse.
                 b.   An emergency shelter serving not more than two (2) families.
                 c.   A garage, shed, or building for domestic storage.
ACCESSORY        d.   Incinerators incidental to residential use.
BUILDING OR      e.   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot with any
USE:          retail service or business use. Unless such storage is excluded by the district
              regulations.
                 f.   A nonpaying guesthouse or rooms for guests  within an accessory building,
              provided such facilities are used for the occasional housing of guest of occupants
              of the principal building and not for permanent occupancy by others as housekeeping
              units.
                 g.   Off street motor vehicle parking areas and loading and unloading
              facilities.
              The use of land for agricultural purposes.  This includes necessary buildings and
              structures which are used for agriculture including, but not limited to, farming,
              dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and
AGRICULTURE:  animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating
              or storing the produce; provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory
              uses shall be secondary to that of the normal agricultural activities. Buildings
              occupied as residences by person not engaged in agricultural operations should not
              be considered to be used for agricultural purposes.
ALLEY:        A narrow service way providing a secondary public means of access to abutting
              properties, and not more than twenty-feet (20') wide.
              As applied to a building or structure, a change or rearrangement in the structural
ALTERATIONS:  parts or in the exit facilities, or an enlargement, whether by extending on a side
              or by increasing in height, or the moving from one location or position to another,
              or by change in use from that of one district classification to another.
ALTERATIONS,  Any change in the supporting members of a building such as bearing walls, columns,
STRUCTURAL:   beams, or girders.
ANIMAL        Any building or portion thereof, designated or used for the care, observation or
HOSPITAL:     treatment of domestic animals.
              A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure, which is arranged,
APARTMENT:    designed, used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit, and which
              contains complete kitchen, bath and toilet facilities, permanently installed.
APARTMENT     A building arranged, intended, or designed to be occupied by  three (3) or more
HOUSE:        families living independently of each other.
AREA,         The total of areas taken on a horizontal plane at the main grade level of the
BUILDING:     principal building and all accessory buildings, exclusive of uncovered porches,
              terraces and steps.
AUTOMOBILE    Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn or damaged  motor vehicles or
REPAIR MAJOR: trailers; collision service, including body, frame or fender straightening or
              repair, and overall painting of vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE    Incidental repairs, replacement of parts and motor service to automobiles, but not
REPAIR MINOR: including any operation specified under the definition of "automobile repair,
              major" in this subsection.
AUTOMOBILE    Any area of land where two (2) or more motor vehicles, not in running condition, or
WRECKING      parts thereof, are stored in the open and not being restored to operation; or any
YARD:         land, building or structure used for the wrecking or storing of such motor
              vehicles, or parts thereof, not in running condition.
              A story partly underground but having at least one-half (1/2) of its height above
              the average level of the adjoining ground. A "basement" shall be counted as a story
BASEMENT:     for the purposes of height measurement if the vertical distance between the ceiling
              and the average level of the adjoining ground is more than five feet (5') or if
              used for business or dwelling purposes.
              Any structure, or portion thereof, situated on private premises,  on which letters,
              figures or pictorial matter is, or is intended to be, displayed for advertising
BILLBOARD OR  purposes, other than the name and occupation of the user of, or the nature of, the
SIGNBOARD:    business constructed on such premises or the product primarily sold or manufactured
              thereon.  This definition shall not be held to include a real estate sign
              advertising for sale or rent the property upon which it stands.
BLOCK:        That property abutting on one side of a street between the two (2) nearest
              intersecting streets or other natural barriers.
BOARD:        The duly appointed Board of Appeals as established in Chapter 2, Article A of this
              title.
BOARD OF      The duly appointed Board of Appeals as established in Chapter 2, Article A of this
APPEALS:      title.
              A building or premises where meals are served for compensation for five (5) or more
BOARDING      persons, but not exceeding twelve (12) persons.  An establishment where meals are
HOUSE:        served for compensation for more than twelve (12) persons shall be deemed a
              "restaurant".
BUILDABLE     The space remaining on a lot after the minimum setback and other requirements of
AREA:         this title are complied with.
              A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the shelter, support,
BUILDING:     enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property.  When separated
              by party walls, each portion of such "building" shall be considered a separate
              structure.
BUILDING      The maximum horizontal projected area of a building and its accessory buildings,
AREA:         excluding open steps, terraces and cornices projecting not more than thirty inches
              (30").
BUILDING,     The line of that face of the building nearest the front line of the lot. This face
FRONT LINE    includes sun parlors and covered porches, whether enclosed or unenclosed, but does
OF:           not include steps.
              The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the proposed existing
BUILDING      finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point of the roof for
HEIGHT:       flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs, and to the mean height between eaves
              and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
BUILDING      As established in Section
INSPECTOR:    10-2-1 of this title, the duly appointed or employed officer whose duty is to
              enforce the provisions of any zoning ordinance established by the village.
BUILDING      A line parallel to the street line at a distance regulated by a front yard
SETBACK LINE: requirement as herein established.
CELLAR:       A story having more than one-half (1/2) of its height below grade.
COMMISSION:   The duly appointed county or regional planning commission.
              The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the development the village and
COMPREHENSIVE prepared by the Village Planning Commission and adopted by the governing body, in
PLAN:         accordance with the authority conferred by Article 11, Division 12, Illinois
              Municipal Code, as amended.
CORPORATE     See definition of Governing Body.
AUTHORITIES:
COVERAGE:     That percentage of the place or lot area covered by the building area.
              A section of the village for which uniform regulations governing the use, height,
DISTRICT:     area, and intensity of use by buildings and land, and open spaces about buildings,
              are herein established.
DWELLING:     A building, but not a mobile home, designed or used exclusively as the living
              quarters for one or more families.
DWELLING      A group of two (2) or more one-family, two-family or multiple-family dwellings
GROUP:        occupying a lot in one ownership and having any yard in common.
DWELLING,     A dwelling or group of dwellings on one plot containing separate living units for
MULTI-FAMILY: three (3) or more families, but which may have joint services or facilities, or
              both.
DWELLING,     A detached building designed for or occupied exclusively by one family.
ONE-FAMILY:
DWELLING ROW: A dwelling, the walls on two (2) sides of which are in common with the walls of
              adjoining dwellings and are party or lot line walls.
DWELLING,     A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two (2) families living
TWO-FAMILY:   independently of each other.  May also be referred to as a “duplex.”
DWELLING      A building or portion thereof providing complete housekeeping facilities for one
UNIT:         family.
              The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance, by public utilities or
              municipal or other governmental agencies, of underground or overhead gas,
              electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems, collection,
              communication, supply or disposal systems, elevated and underground water storage
ESSENTIAL     tanks, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire
SERVICES:     alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar
              equipment and accessories in connection therewith reasonably necessary for the
              furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or municipal or
              governmental agencies or for the public health or safety or general welfare, but
              not including buildings.
              One or more persons who live together in one dwelling unit and maintain a common
FAMILY:       household; may consist of a single person or of two (2) or more persons, whether or
              not related by blood, marriage or adoption; may also include domestic servants and
              gratuitous guests.
FLOORPLAIN:   Lands which are low lying, difficult to drain, subject to flood, or are natural
              drainageways.
              1.   The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building or
              buildings, measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls or from the
              centerline of walls separating two (2) buildings, in particular, the "floor area"
              of a building or buildings shall include:
                 a.   Basement space.
                 b.   Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor;
                 c.   Floor space for mechanical equipment, with structural headroom of seven fee
              six inches (7'6") or more.
                 d.   Penthouses.
                 e.   Attic space (whether or not the floor has actually been laid) providing
              structural headroom of seven feet six inches (7'6") or more.
                 f.   Interior balconies and mezzanines.
                 g.   Enclosed porches.
FLOOR AREA:      h.   Accessory uses, not including space for accessory off-street parking.
              2.   However, the "floor area" of a building shall not include:
                 a.   Cellar space; except, that cellar space used for retailing shall be
              included for the purpose of calculating requirements for accessory off street
              parking spaces and accessory off street loading berths.
                 b.   Elevator and stair bulkheads, accessory water tanks and cooling towers.
                 c.   Floor space used for mechanical equipment with structural headroom of less
              than seven feet six inches (7'6").
                 d.   Attic space, whether or not a floor has actually been laid, providing
              structural headroom of less than seven feet six inches (7'6").
                 e.   Uncovered steps.
                 f.   Terraces, breezeways and open spaces.
                 g.   Accessory off street parking spaces.
                 h.   Accessory off street loading berths up to two hundred percent (200%) of the
              amount required by Chapter 9 of this title.
              All the property abutting on one side of a road, street or place between two (2)
FRONTAGE:     intersecting roads or places (crossing or terminating), or if the road, street or
              place is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between an
              intersecting road, street or place and the dead end of the road, street or place.
GARAGE,       An accessory building, housing not to exceed four (4) motor driven vehicles, on the
PRIVATE:      property of, and for the use of, the occupants of the lot on which the private
              garage is located.
GARAGE,       Any garage, other than a private garage, available to the public, operated for
PUBLIC:       gain, and which is used for storage, repair, rental, greasing, washing, servicing,
              adjusting or equipping of automobiles or other motor vehicles.
GOVERNING     The Board of Trustees of the Village of Stronghurst.
BODY:
              1.   An accessory use of a service character customarily conducted within a
              dwelling by the residents thereof, which is clearly secondary to the use of the
              dwelling for living purposes and does not change the character thereof or have any
              exterior evidence of such secondary use other than a small nameplate and, in
              connection therewith, there is not involved the keeping of a stock in trade.
              2.   The office of a physician, surgeon, dentist or other professional person,
HOME          including an instructor in violin, piano or other individual musical instrument,
OCCUPATION:   limited to a single pupil at a time, who offers skilled services to clients, and is
              not professionally engaged in the purchase or sale of economic goods.
              3.   The occupations of dressmaker, milliner, or seamstress, each with not more
              than one paid assistant.
              4.   Dancing instruction, band instrument instruction in groups, tourist homes,
              beauty parlors, real estate offices, convalescent homes, mortuary establishments,
              and stores, trades of businesses of any kind not herein excepted shall not be
              deemed to be “home occupations.”
              Unless otherwise specified, includes sanitarium, sanatorium, preventorium, clinic,
HOSPITAL:     rest home, nursing home, convalescent home or any other place for the diagnosis,
              treatment or other care of ailments, and shall be deemed to be limited to places
              for the diagnosis, treatment or other care of human ailments.
              As open area or fenced enclosure where used or secondhand materials are bought,
              sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled including, but not
JUNKYARD:     limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires and bottles.  A
              “junkyard” includes an automobile wrecking yard, but does not include uses
              established entirely within enclosed buildings.
KENNEL:       Any structure or premises where three (3) or more doges over four (4) months of age
              are kept.
              The comprehensive long range plan for the desirable use of land as officially
              adopted and as amended from time to time by the governing body; the purpose of such
LAND USE      plan being, among other things, to serve as a guide to the zoning and progressive
PLAN:         changes in the zoning of land to meet changing village needs, in the subdividing
              and use of undeveloped land, and in the acquisition of land for such public
              purposes as roads, parks, schools and other public buildings or public uses.
LOADING       A space within the main building or on the same lot therewith providing for the
SPACE:        standing, loading, or unloading of trucks.
              A parcel, tract or area of land accessible by means of a road, street or place.  It
LOT:          may be a single parcel separately described n a deed or plat which is recorded in
              the office of the County Recorder, or it may include parts of or a combination of
              such parcels when adjacent to one another and used as one.
LOT, CORNER:  A lot at the junction of and having frontage on two (2) or more intersecting
              streets or roads.
LOT COVERAGE: The percentage of the lot area covered by the building area.
LOT, DEPTH    The mean horizontal distance between the front line and the rear lot line, measured
OF:           in the general direction of the side lot lines.
LOT,          A lot other than a corner lot or through lot.
INTERIOR:
LOT LINE,     In the case of an interior lot, a line separating the lot from the road, street or
FRONT:        place; and in the case of a corner lot, a line separating the narrowest frontage of
              the lot from the street.
              A lot which is part of a subdivision, addition or survey, a plat which is recorded
LOT OF        or a parcel of land described by metes and bounds consisting of five (5) acres or
RECORD:       less, the plat or description of such parcel of land having been recorded in the
              office of the County Recorder of deeds prior to the effective date hereof.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately parallel streets and
              which is not a corner lot.
LOT WIDTH:    The dimension of a lot, measured between side lot lines on the building line.
              A structure designed for permanent habitation and so constructed as to permit its
              transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently attached to its frame, from the
              place of its construction to the location, or subsequent locations, at which it is
MOBILE HOME:  intended to be a permanent habitation and designed to permit the occupancy thereof
              as a dwelling place for one or more persons.  The term “mobile home” shall include
              manufactured homes constructed after June 30, 1976, in accordance with the federal
              “National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974.” 
              An area of land divided into two (2) or more lots or parking berths platted and
MOBILE HOME   laid out to provide sites for mobile homes permanently affixed to the land.  A
COURT:        mobile home shall be deemed to be permanently affixed to the land when its wheels
              or other transporting devices have been removed therefrom or otherwise fixed so as
              to prevent ready removal or ready mobility of such mobile home.
              An area of land containing two (2) or more mobile homes or providing space where
MOBILE HOME   two (2) or more mobile homes are harbored or parked or intended to be harbored or
PARK:         parked without being permanently affixed to the land, either free of charge or for
              remuneration purposes, and shall include any building, structure, tent vehicle or
              enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such park.
NET SITE      That area, in the case of a multiple-family dwelling plan, not occupied by rights
AREA:         of way.
NONCONFORMING A building or use of land that does not conform to the regulations for the district
USE:          in which it is situated.
              Any place, lot, parcel or yard used in whole or in part for the storage or parking
PARKING LOT:  of two (2) or more vehicles where such usage is not incidental to or in conjunction
              with a dwelling, or other usage permissible in dwelling districts and located on 
              the same tract.
              An off-street space available for the parking of one motor vehicle, and having an
PARKING       area of not less than one hundred sixty (160) square feet exclusive of passageways
SPACE:        and driveways appurtenant thereto and giving access thereto and having direct
              access to a street or alley.
PLACE:        An open, unoccupied space, other than a street or alley, permanently reserved as
              the principal means of access to abutting property.
SERVICE       A building, buildings, premises or portions thereof which are used or arranged,
STATION:      designed or intended to be used for the retail sale of gasoline or other motor
              vehicle, motorboat or aircraft fuels.
              Any building, structure or portion thereof which is used in whole or in part for
STABLE:       the shelter or care of horses, cattle or other similar animals, either permanently
              or transiently.
              That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the
STORY:        surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it, then the
              space between any floor and the ceiling next above it.
STREET OR     A public or private way which affords the principal means of access to abutting
ROAD:         properties.
STREET OR     The officially established grade of the street upon which a lot fronts.  If there
ROAD GRADE:   is no officially established grade, the existing grades of the street shall be
              taken as the “street grade.”
STRUCTURE:    Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location on the ground,
              or attachment to something having location on the ground.
              The specific purpose for which land or a building is designed, arranged, intended,
USE:          or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.  The term "permitted use" or
              its equivalent shall not be deemed to include any nonconforming use.
VILLAGE BOARD
OR VILLAGE    See definition of Governing Body.
BOARD OF
TRUSTEES:
YARD:         A space on the same lot with a principal building, open, unoccupied, and
              unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise provided.
              A yard extending across the full width of the lot, unoccupied other than by steps,
YARD, FRONT:  walks, terraces, driveways, lampposts and similar structures, the depth of which is
              the least distance between the front lot line and the building line.
              A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the rear of the principal
              building and the rear lot line unoccupied other than by accessory buildings which
YARD, REAR:   do not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the required space, and steps,
              walks, terraces, driveways, lampposts and similar structures, the depth of which is
              the least distance between the rear lot line and the rear of such principal
              building.
              A yard between the principal building and the side lot line, extending from the
              front yard, or from the front lot line where no front yard is required, to the rear
YARD, SIDE:   yard.  The width of the required side yard is measured horizontally, at ninety
              degrees (90°) with the side lot line, from the nearest part of the principal
              building.
              A map or maps, entitled "Henderson County Zoning District Map", for the
ZONING        corresponding area - Henderson County, Stronghurst Township - showing the
DISTRICT MAP  boundaries of the county zoning districts for the entire area of the county outside
(S) COUNTY:   the limits of the cities, villages and incorporated towns therein, and dated, and
              any amendments thereto.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 07December2020, 12-
              7-2020)
 
10-1-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this title shall be applied in the following manner:
   A.   The provisions this Title shall apply to the entire Village of
Stronghurst (“Village”) and that area within one and one-half (1-1/2) miles of
the corporate limits.
   B.   Nothing contained in this title shall impose restrictions with respect
to land used or to be used for agricultural purposes or with respect to the
erection, maintenance, repair, alteration, remodeling, or extension of
buildings or structures used or to be used for agricultural purposes, but said
buildings shall conform to building or setback lines, and a building permit
with respect to land used for agricultural purposes and buildings thereon may
be required.
   C.   Nothing contained in this title shall impose restrictions or
regulations regarding the type or location of any poles, towers, wires, cables,
conduits, vaults, laterals, or any other similar distributing equipment of a
“public utility” as defined by Illinois law.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006 Code;
Ord. 07December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-1-3: PROHIBITED BUILDING:
No structure or improvement shall be built, modified, or adjusted in a manner
which would violate any of the provisions of this Title.  (Ord. 07December2020,
12-7-2020)
10-1-4: SEPARABILITY:
If any portion of this title is, for any reason, held to be invalid by a court
of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of this
title as a whole or any part thereof other than that part so declared to be
invalid. (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-1-5: ORDER OF BUILDING; ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of
the main building has been actually commenced, and no accessory building shall
be used for dwelling purposes unless the main building on the lot is also being
used for dwelling purposes.  (Ord. 07December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-1-6: STORAGE/SHIPPING CONTAINERS:
The regulation of temporary and permanent storage units/shipping containers
shall be controlled and shall confirm to the regulations prescribed in this
section, and shall meet the specific regulations prescribed in this section,
and shall meet the specifications as required in each zoning district.
   A.   Storage/shipping container means a unit originally or specifically
designed or used to store goods or merchandise during shipping or hauling by
container ships, rail, or other types of transportation.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, cargo containers, railroad cars, truck
vans, converted mobile homes, trailers, recreational vehicles, bus bodies,
vehicles and similar prefabricated items and structures originally built for
purposes other than the storage of goods and materials, are not accessory
storage buildings.
   C.   At no time shall any temporary or permanent storage/shipping containers
be placed in any districts of the Village of Stronghurst, Illinois until a
permit has been approved by the Zoning Committee.
   D.   Temporary use: storage/shipping containers shall be allowed as a
temporary use within the Village of Stronghurst in the following instances:
      1.   A building permit is required for any storage/shipping containers
being set or put in place at any location in the Village of Stronghurst.
      2.   Only one storage/shipping container is allowed on any property.
      3.   Only storage/shipping containers twenty (20) foot and less in length
are allowed.
      4.   A limit of one permit per calendar year shall be granted for a
maximum of thirty (30) days, with one thirty (30) day extension possible at the
discretion of the Zoning Committee.
      5.   Placement of the temporary storage/shipping containers must be
approved by the zoning committee.
      6.   For short-term storage of goods of business enterprises located
within a district zoned for business, light industrial, or heavy industrial
(for example: holiday season for storage).
      7.   No stacking of material on top of the storage/shipping container is
allowed.
      8.   All temporary storage/shipping containers must meet the established
setbacks for any districts in the Village of Stronghurst.
      9.   At a construction site for the duration of the project, with the
containers to be removed within thirty (30) days of the completion of the
project.
      10.   Storage/shipping containers shall be allowed as a temporary use
within the village in a residential zone for a period not to exceed ten (10)
days, such units shall only be for the use of persons utilizing the units as
PODS (Portable on Demand Storage) for moving and/or temporary storage. A
temporary building permit will be required for the storage/shipping container
to be used for a time period not to exceed ten (10) days, when using as a
moving or temporary storage container.
   E.   Permanent use: storage/shipping containers shall be allowed as a
permanent use within the Village of Stronghurst only under the following
instances:
      1.   Containers shall be allowed as an accessory use only and subject to
the requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
      2.   A building permit is required for any storage/shipping containers
being set or put in place at any location in the Village of Stronghurst.
      3.   Only one storage/shipping container is allowed on any property.
      4.   Placement of the permanent storage/shipping containers must be
approved by the Zoning Committee.
      5.   At no time shall any permanent storage/shipping container be allowed
to be placed anywhere other than in the rear yard.
      6.   Only storage/shipping containers twenty (20) foot and less in length
are allowed.
      7.   All signage on the container shall be removed and the container
shall be painted an earth tone color or a color of siding material compatible
with the surrounding environment or adjacent structures. The painting or siding
shall be completed within thirty (30) days of the placement of the container.
This provision shall apply retroactively; therefore, all permanent use storage/
shipping containers, whenever placed, including before the adoption of this
chapter, shall be required to comply with this provision regarding signage and
painting.
      8.   No stacking of material on top of the storage/shipping container is
allowed. This provision shall apply retroactively; therefore, all permanent use
storage/shipping containers, whenever placed, including before the adoption of
this chapter, shall be required to comply with this provision regarding
stacking of materials on such storage/shipping containers.
      9.   The container shall be safe, structurally sound, and be placed on a
stable surface.
      10.   Any container that becomes unsafe, unstable, or dangerous, as
determined by the Zoning Committee, shall be removed or repaired immediately by
the property owner.
      11.   All permanent use containers shall be anchored or otherwise secured
to some stable surface.
      12.   Containers shall not be stored in a manner that impedes access to
public right-of-way, public utilities, drainage easements, adjacent structures
or buildings.
      13.   No containers may be utilized as rental units or be leased to
anyone other than the property owner or business where container is placed.
      14.   Containers shall not be connected to utility services, with the
exception of electricity, nor shall any other utility service be utilized
within the container.
      15.   All storage/shipping containers are subject to inspection of
contents to ensure adherence to the ordinance as set forth.  (Ord.
07December2020, 12-7-2020)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Enforcement Official
10-2-2: Zoning Committee
10-2-3: Building Permit
10-2-4: Procedure For Building Permit Issuance
10-2-5: Variances
10-2-6: Expiration Of Building Permits
10-2-7: Amendments
10-2-8: Violation; Penalties
10-2-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
It shall be the duty of the Zoning Chairman, along with the Police Department,
to enforce the provisions of all Zoning Ordinances.
   A.   In the case of any building or structure erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained in violation of the
provisions of these Zoning Regulations, the Village Attorney, in addition to
any other remedies available under these Zoning Regulations, is hereby
authorized to institute an action to enjoin, or any other appropriate action or
proceeding to prevent or correct such erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use.
   B.   In the case of any persons violating any provision of the zoning
ordinances the following protocol shall be followed by the Zoning Chairman:
      1.   Building Without an Approved Building Permit. Zoning Chairman shall
contact persons and inform them that they are in violation of the Village of
Stronghurst Zoning Ordinance and:
         a.   Zoning Chairman shall inform violators that any and all work at
the said property must cease until a building permit has been approved by the
zoning committee.
         b.   Zoning Chairman shall take building permit to or inform violators
that a building permit may be picked up at Stronghurst Village Hall.
         c.   If violators continue to build without the approved building
permit the Zoning Chairman shall contact and turn matter over to the Village of
Stronghurst Attorney.
      2.   Violating an Approved Building Permit. Zoning Chairman shall contact
persons and inform them that they are in violation of the Village of
Stronghurst Zoning Ordinances and inform them that if not resolved within
thirty (30) days the matter will be turned over to the Village of Stronghurst
Attorney.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 07December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-2-2: ZONING COMMITTEE:
The Zoning Committee shall be made up of at least four (4) members, appointed
annually by the President of the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Stronghurst, and shall be comprised of an equal number of Board members and
citizens of the Village.  (Ord. 07December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-2-3: BUILDING PERMIT 1 :
Building permits shall be required for any building or structure over one
hundred (100) square feet subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Nonagricultural Buildings: No nonagricultural building or structure
shall be erected, added to, or structurally altered until a Building Permit has
been issued by the Zoning Committee or Board of Trustees of the Village of
Stronghurst. Except upon a written order of the Zoning Committee or Board of
Trustees, no such Building Permit shall be issued for any building where said
construction, addition, alteration, or use thereof would be in violation of any
of the provisions of this title.
   B.   Agricultural Buildings: No agricultural building or structures
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000) in total cost shall be erected, added
to, or structurally altered until a building permit has been issued by the
Zoning Committee or Board of Trustees of the Village of Stronghurst.
   C.   Any temporary or moveable building or structure, including, but not
limited to, "skid" style buildings or structures, shall require a building
permit, and shall not be excused from the requirement of receiving a building
permit before placement or erection by their temporary or removable nature. 
(Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December2020, 12-7-2020)
 
Notes
1    See also section
  9-1-2 of this code.
10-2-4: PROCEDURE FOR BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE:
The procedure for the issuance of all building permits shall be as follows:
   A.   Application for building permit. The application for building permit
shall be kept at the office of the Village Clerk and made conveniently
available for applicants. Each applicant is hereby required to fully complete
an application for building permit, and return such completed application to
the Village Clerk for processing.
   B.   Submission to Zoning Committee. Upon receipt of a completed application
for building permit, the Village Clerk shall send notice and a copy of the
Application to each member of the Zoning Committee for review.
   C.   Vote by Zoning Committee. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of an
application for building permit by the Village Clerk, the Zoning Committee
shall discuss the application, vote on whether to approve or deny a building
permit to the applicant, and shall notify the Village Clerk of their decision.
The applicant may be present for this meeting.
   D.   Notification and issuance of building permit. Within five (5) days of
the Village Clerk's receipt of the Zoning Committee's decision regarding an
individual application for building permit, the Village Clerk shall notify the
applicant of the Zoning Committee's decision. If the Zoning Committee has
approved the application, the Village Clerk shall immediately issue a building
permit to the applicant.
   E.   Appeals to the Board of Trustees. Within thirty (30) days of the
Village Clerk's notification that the Zoning Committee has denied an
application for building permit and refused to issue a building permit, the
applicant may, by requesting in any written document delivered to the Village
Clerk within the time frame contained herein, appeal the decision of the Zoning
Committee to the Board of Trustees of the Village of Stronghurst.  (Ord.
07December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-2-5: VARIANCES:
Variances shall be requested, approved, and issued pursuant to the terms
governing the issuance of building permits, except that the timelines contained
in such terms shall not be applied to variance applications. Should a variance
be requested, it shall be clearly marked as a variance on the application for
building permit.  (Ord. 07December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-2-6: EXPIRATION OF BUILDING PERMITS:
All building permits shall be valid for a period of six (6) months from the
date of issuance. The project approved in the building permit must be started
before the deadline of this expiration period; if the project is not started
within this period, a new building permit must be issued pursuant to the
procedure contained herein.  (Or8d. 07December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-2-7: AMENDMENTS:
The corporate authorities may, from time to time, amend, supplement, change,
modify, or repeal this Title, in part or in full, pursuant to their authority.
(Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 07December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-2-8: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
The owner or resident of any building, structure, or land in or upon which a
violation of this Title exists shall be in violation of this ordinance and
subject to a fine not to exceed seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750). A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that such violation
occurs or continues. (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 07December2020, 12-
7-2020)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-3-1: Zoning Districts Established
10-3-2: Zoning District Map
10-3-3: Amending Zoning Districts
10-3-4: Zoning Of Vacated Areas
10-3-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The village, and the area within one and one-half (1-1/2) miles of the
corporate limits of the village, shall be classified and divided into five (5)
districts. These districts shall be designated as follows:
   Agricultural District:  A-1.
   Dwelling District:  R-1 and R-2.
   Business District:  B-1.
   Industrial District: I-1.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006 Code; Ord.
07December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-3-2: ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
A map indicating the various zoning districts in the Village shall be kept at
the office of the Village Clerk and made conveniently available for public
inspection. (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 07December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-3-3: AMENDING ZONING DISTRICTS:
Zoning districts may be changed, altered, or otherwise amended by the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Stronghurst.  (Ord.  07 December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-3-4: ZONING OF VACATED AREAS:
Whenever any street, alley, or other area is vacated by proper authority, the
districts adjoining such vacated property shall be extended automatically to
the center of such vacated property, and all area included in the vacated
property shall then and henceforth be subject to all appropriate regulations of
the extended districts.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December2020, 12-7-2020)
CHAPTER 4
A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4-1: Scope
10-4-2: Permitted Uses
10-4-3: Building Height
10-4-4: Lot Area
10-4-5: Yards
10-4-6: Off Street Parking Facilities
10-4-1: SCOPE:
Within the A-1 Agricultural District, the regulations of this chapter shall
apply.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-4-2: PERMITTED USES:
"Accessory use of building," as defined in subsection
10-1-2B of this Title and as regulated by Section
10-1-6 of this Title, including the following accessory uses:
   Buildings and structures accessory to agricultural uses, including roadside
stands selling produce grown on the premises; provided, that such stands are
located not less than fifty feet (50') from a street or highway right of way.
Agricultural and agricultural buildings; provided, that no livestock is housed
closer than four hundred feet (400') from any lot in any R District.
Billboards and signboards subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   No billboard or signboard shall be located within four hundred feet
(400') of any R  District.
   B.   Billboards or signboards may have constant or flashing illumination;
provided, that any such sign located in the direct line of vision of any
traffic control signaling device shall not have contrasting or flashing
intermittent illumination of red, greed, or amber color.  Where a sign is
illuminated by light reflected upon it, direct rays of light shall not project
upon any part of any existing state or federal highway right-of-way, existing
residential structure or any R District.
   C.   All billboards shall comply with the Illinois Highway Advertising
Control Act of 1971.
Buildings or structures occupied by or used for places of worship, Sunday
schools, parish houses, public and parochial schools, public libraries,
museums, and similar public cultural uses located not less than forty feet
(40') from any other side lot line in any R District.
Cemeteries.
Country clubs, golf courses, swimming clubs and similar recreational uses;
provided, that any principal or accessory building in connection therewith
shall be located not less than two hundred feet (200') from any other lot in
any R District.
"Essential services", as defined in Subsection
10-1-2B of this Title, and public service buildings or properties, except such
uses as storage yards, warehouses, garages, or other uses customarily conducted
as gainful businesses, provided any building is located not less than forty
feet (40') from any other lot in any R District.
Existing railroad rights-of-way, not including switching, storage freight yards
or sidings.
Farm dwellings and single-family non-farm dwellings.
"Home occupations", as defined in Subsection
10-1-2B of this Title.
Mobile home parks and mobile home courts.
Open air recreational use such as parks and playgrounds.
Sale of nursery and greenhouse products where production or growth of products
takes place on the premises. 
Signs, defined as follows:
   A.   Signs accessory to roadside stands shall be limited to two (2) per lot
with no sign larger than ten square feet (10) and set back thirty feet (30')
from the right-of-way. Such signs shall be less than fifteen feet (15') in
height and pertain to agricultural products offered for sale and identification
of such stand.
   B.   Real estate signs of a temporary nature, not exceeding two (2) in
number per lot, nor larger than twelve square feet (12), set back twenty feet
(20') from any highway, street or road right-of-way.
   C.   Small announcement or professional signs not exceeding four square feet
(4) in area; except, that an announcement sign or bulletin board, not over
twelve square feet (12) in area, set back twenty feet (20') from any right-of-
way, may be erected in connection with any of the permitted principal uses of a
nonresidential character.
   D.   A sign or signs flat against the building appertaining to a
nonconforming use on the premises, not exceeding in the aggregate fifty square
feet (50) in area, except as may be  authorized by the Board of Appeals.
Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed one year.
The following uses shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions and
procedures indicated by the governing body upon application in accordance with
and after compliance with the procedures set forth in Chapter 8 of this Title:
   Sanitary landfills in accordance with other applicable requirements and
regulations; provided, that no such landfill shall be operated within one
thousand twenty feet (1,320') of any R District.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006
Code; Ord. 07December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-4-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
There shall be no restriction on the height of buildings in agricultural
district.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December2020, 12-7-2020)
10-4-4: LOT AREA:
   A.   No lot area shall be less than one acre in size outside the Village
limits.
   B.   Public school, elementary and high, or private school having a
curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in a public elementary school or
public high school, including religious instruction in parochial schools,
hereafter erected, shall conform to the following minimum standards:
 
Elementary School: 5 acres, plus 1 acre per 100 student design capacity.
Middle School:     10 acres, plus 1 acre per 100 student design capacity.
High School:       15 acres, plus 1 acre per 100 student design capacity.
 
(Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-4-5: YARDS:
No minimum yard areas shall be required for agricultural use except a front
yard requirement of eighty feet (80') along state and federal highways and a
requirement of sixty feet (60') along state aid highways and other public
roads.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-4-6: OFF STREET PARKING FACILITIES:
Off street parking facilities shall be provided as required or permitted in
Chapter 9 of this Title.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-
2020)
CHAPTER 5
R-1 DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5-1: Scope
10-5-2: Permitted Uses
10-5-3: Building Height
10-5-4: Lot Area
10-5-5: Yards
10-5-6: Lot Coverage
10-5-7: Off Street Parking Facilities
10-5-1: SCOPE:
Within the R-1 Dwelling District, the regulations of this article shall apply.
(Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-5-2: PERMITTED USES:
"Accessory use or building", as defined in Subsection
10-1-2B of this Title, and as regulated by Section
10-1-6 of this Title.
Churches and similar places of worship.
Convents, monasteries, rectories or parish houses to be occupied by not more
than ten (10) persons.
Farming, truck gardening and nurseries.
"Home occupations", as defined in Subsection
10-1-2B of this Title.
Library.
Off street parking facilities, as required or permitted by Chapter 9 of this
Title.
One-family detached dwelling.
One-family row dwellings with not more than eight (8) dwelling units in one
building.
Private swimming pools appurtenant to a one-family dwelling on the same lot,
when they meet yard depth and width requirements for principal buildings in
this district, and when the swimming pool or the property on which it is
located is adequately fenced to a height of forty eight inches (48") to prevent
access of small children and meets all applicable health and sanitary
requirements.
Public school, elementary and high, or private school having a curriculum
similar to that ordinarily given in a public elementary school or public high
school, including religious instruction in parochial schools.
Signs, defined as follows:
   A.   A sign or signboard not exceeding eight square feet (8) in area,
appertaining to the sale or lease of the premises or trespassing thereon;
   B.   A nameplate not exceeding one square foot (1) in area.
   C.   A sign or bulletin board not exceeding twenty square feet (20) in area
erected upon the premises of a church or other institution for the purpose of
displaying the name and activities or services therein provided.
Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed one year.
Two-family dwellings and multiple dwellings not to exceed nine (9) dwelling
units or apartments per structure.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006 Code; Ord.
07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-5-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   One-family detached dwellings: Thirty feet (30'), and not over two and
one-half (2  ½) stories, except as provided in Section
10-1-6 of this Title.
   B.   Churches and similar places of worship:  Seventy-five feet (75') for
towers or steeples and not more than forty-five feet (45) for the principal
building.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-5-4: LOT AREA:
   A.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered as a multiple-
family dwelling or as a row house shall provide a lot area per dwelling unit of
not less than one thousand three hundred fifty square feet (1,350') and a width
at the building line of not less than fifty feet (50'), except as provided in
Section
10-1-6 of this Title.
   B.   Every one-family detached dwelling, convent, monastery, rectory or
parish house hereafter erected shall be on a lot having an area of not less
than seven thousand five hundred square feet (7,500) and a width at the
established building line of not less than fifty feet (50'), except as provided
in Section
10-1-6 of this Title.
   C.   Churches and similar places of worship hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of not less than seven
thousand five hundred square feet (7,500), and a width at the building line of
not less than fifty feet (50').
   D.   For public and private schools, the same regulations shall apply as
required or permitted in the A-1 Agricultural District (Subsection
10-4-4B of this Title).  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-5-5: YARDS:
No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged unless the following
yards are provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure
or enlargement:
   A.   Front Yard; Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have a
front yard of not less than twenty-five feet (25') along all federal and state
rights of way and twenty feet  (20') along all others.  Where a lot has double
frontage, the required front yard shall be provided on both streets.
   B.   Side Yards:
      1.   On each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed, there shall be a
side yard on each side of not less than ten feet (10').  The combined total of
side yards for corner lots shall not be less than twenty-five feet (25').
      2.    On lots upon which a church or similar place of worship is
constructed or extension made to an existing church or a similar place of
worship, there shall be a side yard of not less than twenty feet (20') on each
side of the main structure and a combined total of side yards of not less than
forty feet (40').
   C.   Rear Yard: Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard of not less than twenty-five feet (25'), or
twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is larger, but
is need not exceed sixty-five feet (65').  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord.
07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-5-6: LOT COVERAGE:
All buildings, including accessory buildings, shall not cover more than thirty
percent (30%) of the area of the lot. (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December
2020, 12-7-2020)
10-5-7: OFF STREET PARKING FACILITIES:
Off street parking facilities shall be provided as required or permitted in
Chapter 9 of this Title. (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
CHAPTER 6
R-2 DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6-1: Permitted Uses
10-6-2: Building Height
10-6-3: Lot Area
10-6-4: Yards
10-6-5: Lot Coverage
10-6-6: Off Street Parking Facilities
10-6-1: PERMITTED USES:
Any use permitted in the R-1 Dwelling District (Section 10-5A-2 of this
Title).  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-6-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The same regulations shall apply as required or permitted in the R-1 Dwelling
District (Section
10-5-3 of this Title).  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 07December 2020,
12-7-2020)
10-6-3: LOT AREA:
   A.   Every one-family detached dwelling, convent, monastery, rectory or
parish house hereafter erected shall be on a lot having an area of not less
than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet, and a width at the established
building line of not less than one hundred feet (100'), except as provided in
Section
10-1-6 of this Title.
   B.   Churches and similar places of worship hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of not less than one-half
(1/2) acre and a width at the building line of not less than eighty-five feet
(85').
   C.   Regulations for public and private schools shall be the same as
required or permitted in the A-1 Agricultural District (Subsection
10-4-4B of this Title).  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-6-4: YARDS:
No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged unless the following
yards are provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure
or enlargement:
   A.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which is dwelling is constructed shall have
afront yard of not less than thirty feet (30').
   B.   Side Yards:
      1.   On each lot upon which a dwelling constructed, there shall be side
yard on each side of not less than ten feet (10'). The combined total of the
side yards for interior lots shall not be less than twenty feet (20'), and the
combined total of side yards for corner lots shall not be less than thirty feet
(30'). The side yard on each side of a building on a lot of record which is
less than seventy feet (70') in width shall have a width of not less than seven
feet (7').
      2.   On lots upon which a church or similar place of worship is
constructed or extension made to an existing church or similar place of
worship, there shall be a side yard of not less than fifteen feet (15') on each
side of the main structure and a combined total of side yards of not less than
thirty-five feet (35').
   C.   Rear Yard:  Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard of not less than twenty-five feet (25'), or
twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot, whichever is larger, but it need
not exceed thirty-five feet (35').  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020,
12-7-2020)
10-6-5: LOT COVERAGE:
All buildings, including accessory buildings, shall not cover more than thirty
percent (30%) of the area of the lot.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December
2020, 12-7-2020)
10-6-6: OFF STREET PARKING FACILITIES:
Parking facilities shall be provided as required or permitted in Chapter 9 of
this title. (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
CHAPTER 7
B-1 BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7-1: Scope
10-7-2: Permitted Uses
10-7-3: Condition Of Use
10-7-4: Building Height
10-7-5: Yards
10-7-1: SCOPE:
Within the B-1 Business District, the regulations of this Chapter shall apply. 
(Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-7-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Any use permitted in the R-2 Dwelling District (Section 10-5B-1 of this
title), except single-family dwellings.
   B.   Art, book, school supply, and stationery stores.
   Auto repair garage.
   Bakery shops, including the baking and processing of food products when
prepared for retail use on the premises only.
   Barbershop, beauty parlor, massage, or similar personal service shops.
   Candy and ice cream shop.
   Drugstores.
   Dyeing, dry cleaning, and laundry works having a boiler with a steam
generating capacity no greater than one thousand five hundred (1,500) pounds of
steam per hour, having no more than five (5) employees employed at any one time
on the premises, having a portion of the premises devoted to the pickup and
delivery to customers of items to be dyed, dry cleaned, or laundered and which
does not operate before the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. nor after the
hour of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and which utilizes only underwriter approved
non-flammable solutions and materials in its operations.
   Floral shop and conservatory for retail trade on the premises only.
   Food and fruit stores.
   Gift stores.
   Launderette, laundromat, or similar self-service laundry or self-service
dry-cleaning establishment.
   Meat markets.
   Newsstands.
   Rental establishments.
   Restaurant, tearoom, and café when the establishment is not of the drive-in
type where food is served to customers remaining in the motor vehicle.
   Service stations, excluding any such operation which may include the repair
or servicing of motor vehicles, except as defined under "automobile repair,
minor" in Subsection
10-1-2B of this title.
   Tobacco stores.
   Any other similar type retail stores not specifically permitted in this
subsection when authorized by the governing body after receipt of review and
recommendations from the planning commission.
   Any accessory use or building customarily incidental to the above permitted
uses and as regulated by subsequent sections of this title.
   C.   Amusement establishments: Bowling alleys, dance halls, and other
similar places of recreation when conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building.
   Auto accessory store where there is no driveway entrance across the sidewalk
into the main building.
   Banks, financial institutions, savings and loan associations.
   Bicycle repair, sales and rental.
   Blueprinting and photo stating establishments.
   Bus passenger terminal.
   Camera and photographic supply shops for retail sales.
   Computer and office equipment sales and service.
   Custom dressmaking, millinery, tailoring or shoe repair conducted for retail
sales on the premises only.
   Department stores.
   Dry cleaning and dressing establishments, when employing facilities for the
cleaning and pressing of dry goods, received on the premises from retail trade
only and not including any wholesale cleaning or pressing business, and when
using carbon tetrachloride, perchloroethylene, or other similar non-flammable
solvents approved by the fire department.
   Dry goods store, haberdashery, and wearing apparel stores.
   Electrical appliance store and repair, but not including appliance assembly
or manufacturing.
   Frozen food lockers.
   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
   Furniture store and upholstery.
   Furrier, when conducted for retail trade on the premises only.
   Garden supplies and seed stores.
   Gift shops.
   Hardware stores.
   Hobby stores.
   Hotels, including dining and meeting rooms, when business uses occupy the
street  frontage except for an entranceway to the hotel lobby.
   Household appliance store and repair shops.
   Interior decorating shops, including upholstery and making of draperies,
slipcovers, and other similar articles, when conducted as part of the retail
operations and secondary to the main use.
   Jewelry store and watch repair.
   Leather goods and luggage store.
   Medical clinics.
   Messenger or telegraph service stations.
   Off street parking facilities in an open lot or a covered building.
   Offices, business and professional.
   Paint and wallpaper store.
   Photography studio, art gallery or studio, including the developing of film
and pictures when conducted as part of the retail business on the premises.
   Plumbing showroom, without shop or repair facilities.
   Post office.
   Public utility collection offices.
   Service stations, public garages, and other motor vehicle services, provided
no major repair work is performed out of doors, provided all pumps, underground
storage tanks, lubricating, and other devices are located at least thirty feet
(30') from any street right-of-way, provided all fuel, oil, or similar
substances are stored inside or underground, and provided all automobile parts,
dismantled vehicles, and similar articles are stored within a building.
   Shoe store.
   Sporting goods store.
   Tailor shop.
   Theaters, indoor.
   Variety store.
   Wearing apparel shop.
   Any other similar type retail store not specifically listed in this
subsection, when authorized by the governing body after receipt of review and
recommendations from the Planning Commission.
   D.   Air conditioning and heating, sales and service.
   Automobile motor repair, sales and service shop, including automobile body
repair and rebuilding, and painting of automobiles.
   Battery and the service stations.
   Beverage, non-alcoholic, bottling and distributing.
   Bicycle and motorcycle sales, repair and rental.
   Boat display, sales and service.
   Farm implement display, sales and service.
   Feed and seed store.
   Kennel.
   Mobile home sales and rental on an open lot or within a building.
   Motel.
   Pet shop or animal hospital when conducted wholly within a enclosed
building.
   Plumbing, heating, and roofing supply shops when conducted wholly within a
building.
   Recreation places, including bowling alley, dance hall, gymnasium, skating
rink, archery range, miniature golf course, or other similar places of
amusement or entertainment when operated for pecuniary profit.
   Restaurant, non-drive-in, drive-in or service.
   Uses customarily incidental to any of the uses in this subsection and
accessory buildings when located on the same premises.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd.
2006 Code; Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-7-3: CONDITION OF USE:
All activities, except for automobile off street parking, which are permitted
or required in this B-1 District shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed
building.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-7-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The height of all buildings or structures shall be no more than three (3)
stories or thirty-five feet (35') in height except as permitted in Section
10-1-6 of this title.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-7-5: YARDS:
No building or structure shall be constructed or enlarged unless the following
yards are provided and maintained in connection with such building:
   A.   Front Yard:
      1.   Requirements: No front yard shall be required when all frontage
between two (2) intersecting streets lies within this district.  However, when
lots within this district are adjacent to and adjoining lots in an R District,
all of which front upon the same street between two (2) intersecting streets,
there shall be established the same front yard setback for all of the frontage
as has been established in the abutting R District.
      2.   Exception:  When existing buildings located in this district have
already established a building line at the street line at a depth less than
required above, then all new buildings may conform to the same building line,
except for the first fifty feet (50') of the B-1 District frontage adjacent to
the R District, whereupon there shall be provided a front setback of not less
than ten feet (10').
   B.   Side Yards:  No side yard is required except for a corner lot which
abuts upon an R District, or upon an alley separating this district from an R
District.  There shall then be provided a side yard equal to one-half (1/2) the
front yard required in the abutting R District, but in no case more than ten
feet (10').  The same setback shall apply also if business buildings front the
intersecting street, commonly referred to as the side street.
   C.   Rear Yard:  There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet
(20'); provided, however, that a one-story accessory building may be relocated
thereon, except for the five feet (5') adjacent and parallel to the rear lot
line or alley line, for the storage of motor vehicles and the unloading and
loading of vehicles under roof as provided in Chapter 9 of this title.  (Ord.,
3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
CHAPTER 8
I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8-1: Scope
10-8-2: Permitted Uses
10-8-3: Condition Of Use
10-8-4: Building Height
10-8-5: Yards
10-8-6: Performance Standards
10-8-7: Off Street Parking And Loading Facilities
10-8-1: SCOPE:
Within the I-1 Industrial District, the regulations of this Chapter shall
apply.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-8-2: PERMITTED USES:
An industrial use is one which creates a minimum amount of nuisance outside the
plant, and which is not noxious or offensive by reason of the emission of
smoke, dust, fumes, gas, odors, noises or vibrations beyond the confines of the
building.  The following uses are permitted in the I-1 Industrial District:
   Any agricultural use.
   Any use permitted in districts R-1, R-2, and B-1 (Sections 10-5A-2, 10-5B-
1 and
10-6-2, respectively, of this title).
   Animal hospitals.
   Bakeries.
   Bottling works.
   Building material yards where no millwork is done.
   Cabinet making establishments and carpenter shops which use no motors larger
than ten (10) horsepower.
   Clothing factories.
   Contractors' yards.
   Dairies.
   Dry cleaning plants.
   Dyeing plants.
   Feed processing and distributing facilities.
   Fruit canning and packing establishments.
   Fuel storage plants.
   Ice plants.
   Laundries.
   Machine shops.
   Manufacturing plants.
   Milk distribution stations.
   Mixing plants.
   Mobile home parks or mobile homes.
   Optical goods factories.
   Paper box factories.
   Pencil factories.
   Printing, publication, and engraving plants.
   Processing plants.
   Research and development organizations.
   Sheet metal shops.
   Storage firms.
   Trucking terminals.
   Welding shops.
   Wholesale businesses.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 07December
2020, 12-7-2020)
10-8-3: CONDITION OF USE:
The permitted uses in Section
10-8-2 of this chapter shall be subject to the following:  Any production,
processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or storage of goods, materials
or products shall take place without creating disturbing influences to the use
and occupancy of adjoining properties.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December
2020, 12-7-2020)
10-8-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall exceed three (3) stories or thirty-five feet
(35') in height, except as permitted in Section
10-1-6 of this Title. (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-8-5: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yard:  All buildings and structures shall have a front yard depth
of at least ten feet (10').  Buildings and structures placed on corner lots
shall observe front yard requirements on both streets.
   B.   Side Yards:  All buildings and structures shall have side yard widths
of at least ten feet (10').
   C.   Rear Yard:  All buildings and structures shall have a rear yard depth
of at least ten feet (10').
   D.   Yards Adjacent to Residential Districts: All buildings and structures
on lots adjacent to residential districts shall be located so as to provide
side yard widths or rear yard depths of at least twenty-five feet (25')
adjacent to such residential districts.
   E.   Railroad Siding Frontage:  No yards shall be required for those
portions of lots which front on railroad sidings.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord.
07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-8-6: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Noise:
      1.   The sound pressure level, to be measured as described below, shall
not exceed the following decibel levels in the designated octave bands when
adjacent to the designated types of districts.
Octave Band       Sound Level In Decibels
Cycles Per Second All Residential Districts B-1 District
0 to 75           58                        73
76 to 150         54                        69
151 to 300        50                        65
301 to 600        46                        61
601 to 1,200      40                        55
1,201 to 2,400    33                        48
2,401 to 4,800    26                        41
Over 4,800        20                        35
 
      2.   Objectionable sounds of an intermittent nature which are not easily
measured shall be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
      3.   Measurement is to be made at the nearest boundary of the nearest
residential or business area or at any other point along the boundary where the
level is higher. The sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter
and associated octave band filter as prescribed by the American Standards
Association.
   B.   Smoke and Particulate Matter:
      1.   The emission of smoke or dusts by manufacturing plants in an amount
sufficient to create a general nuisance to adjoining properties shall be
prohibited. Total emission of smoke and particulate matter shall be limited to
the following:
   Ringelmann Requirements:  All smoke and the emission of all other
particulate matter in quantities sufficient to produce an opacity at any point
greater than Ringelmann 3 shall be prohibited. The only exception shall be a
plume consisting entirely of condensed steam. A "Ringelmann 1 unit" is defined
as twenty percent (20%) density for one minute. No more than fifteen (15) units
of Ringelmann smoke shall be permitted per hour and no smoke more intense than
Ringelmann 2; except, that during one hour of a twenty-four (24) hour day,
thirty (30) units of smoke may be emitted, but with no smoke more intense than
Ringelmann 3.
   2.   The total quantity of emitted solids shall not exceed one pound per
hour, per acre of lot area.
   C.   Odors:  No odor shall be emitted by any use permitted in this district
in such quantities as to be readily detectable by an average observer at any
point on the boundary line of the premises or beyond.
   D.   Noxious Gases:  Processes and operations of permitted uses capable of
dispersing gases or toxic particulates into the atmosphere must be hooded or
otherwise suitably enclosed. The emission of such toxic gases or particulate
matter shall be from a stack.
   E.   Glare and Heat:  Operation producing intense light or heat shall be
performed within an enclosed building and not be visible beyond any lot line
bounding the property whereon the use is conducted.
   F.   Vibrations:  No uses shall be located and no equipment shall be
installed in such a way to produce intense, earth shaking vibrations which are
noticeable at the property lines of the subject premises.  (Ord., 3-5-1973;
amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-8-7: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES:
Off street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required in
Chapter 9 of this title.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES 1
SECTION:
10-9-1: Land Used For Storage; Signs
10-9-2: Continuance Of Use Of Buildings And Structures
10-9-3: Nonagricultural Buildings And Structures
10-9-4: Mobile Homes And Mobile Home Parks
10-9-5: Adjacent Small Lots
10-9-6: Abandonment Of Use
 
Notes
1    See Subsection
  10-2-3B of this title for certificate of occupancy provisions.
10-9-1: LAND USED FOR STORAGE; SIGNS:
The lawful use of land for storage purposes, except for agricultural uses or
where such use is an adjunct of any structure, and advertising signs and
bulletin boards which do not conform to the provisions of this title shall be
discontinued within one year from the effective date hereof, and the lawful use
of land for storage purposes, except for agricultural uses or where such use is
an adjunct of any structure, and signs and bulletin boards which become non-
conforming by reason of a subsequent change in this title shall also be
discontinued within one year from the date of the change. (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd.
Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-9-2: CONTINUANCE OF USE OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   The lawful use of a building or structure existing at the effective
date hereof may be continued, although such use does not conform to the
provisions of this title.  If no structural alterations are made, a non-
conforming use of a building may be changed to another non-conforming use of
the same or of a more restricted classification.  Whenever such non-conforming
use has been changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, such use
shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted use.
   B.   Whenever the lawful use of a building becomes non-conforming through a
change in zoning requirements or district boundaries, such use may be
continued, and if no structural alterations are made, it may be changed to
another non-conforming use of the same or of a more restricted classification. 
Whenever such non-conforming use has been changed to a more restricted use or
to a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less
restricted use.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
10-9-3: NONAGRICULTURAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Discontinuance of Use: Whenever a non-conforming use of a non-
agricultural building or structure, or part thereof, has been discontinued for
a period of twelve (12) consecutive months, or for a continuous period of
eighteen (18) months if the building was originally designed and constructed
for non-residential use, such use shall not, after being discontinued or
abandoned, be re-established, and the use of the premises thereafter shall be
in conformity with the regulations of the district.
   B.   Enlargement, Reconstruction, Alteration:
      1.   No existing non-agricultural building or structure devoted to a use
not permitted in the district in which such building or premises is located,
except when required to do so by law, shall be enlarged, extended,
reconstructed or structurally altered, unless such use is changed to a use
permitted in the district in which such building or structure is located;
provided, however, any building containing a residential non-conforming use may
be altered in any way to improve livability, but no structural alteration shall
be made which would increase the number of dwelling units therein or the bulk
of the building.
   C.   Damage: Any non-agricultural building or structure containing a non-
conforming use which is damaged by explosion, fire, flood, wind or other act of
nature or man of fifty percent (50%) or more of its fair market (sales value
immediately prior to damage shall not be repaired or reconstructed except in
conformity with the provisions of this title.  In the event that the building
inspector's estimate of the extent of damage or fair market value is not
acceptable to the applicant for the building permit to repair or reconstruct
such building or structure, the applicant may appeal to the Board of Appeals.
   D.   Building under Construction: Non non-agricultural building or structure
designed or intended to be utilized for a non-conforming use shall be
constructed or allowed unless substantial construction is underway at the
effective date hereof or subsequent amendment hereto and is being diligently
prosecuted so that such building or structure will be completed within eighteen
(18) months from the effective date hereof or subsequent amendment hereto.  All
outstanding building permits for construction which do not meet these
requirements shall be rendered null and void by the enactment of, or subsequent
amendment to, this tile.  (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 07December
2020, 12-7-2020)
10-9-4: MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS 1 :
   A.   Mobile Homes:  No mobile home shall be converted to a permanent
residence in R-1 and R-2 Districts.
   B.   Mobile Home Parks:  The lawful use of land as a mobile home park which
does not conform to the provisions of this title shall not be extended beyond
the area actually so used at the effective date hereof, and no new parking
spaces or berths for additional mobile homes shall be added thereto.  (Ord., 3-
5-1973; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
 
Notes
1    See also title 9, chapter 2 of this code and section
  10-8-7 of this title.
10-9-5: ADJACENT SMALL LOTS:
When adjacent lots of record are in single ownership and fronting on the same
street or place, even though such lots are smaller in area and width than
permitted in the use district where located, no building or structure shall be
erected or structurally altered on such lots, except in conformity with the
provisions of this title. (Ord., 3-5-1973; amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-
2020)
10-9-6: ABANDONMENT OF USE:
Where no enclosed building is involved, discontinuance of a non-conforming use
for a period of six (6) months shall constitute abandonment. (Ord., 3-5-1973;
amd. Ord. 07December 2020, 12-7-2020)
