CITY CODE
of
SYCAMORE, ILLINOIS
1994
Code current through:
Ord. 2024.35, passed November 18, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Sycamore, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 2024.35, passed November 18, 2024. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025.13
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 3, “BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS,” TO ADD A NEW
CHAPTER ENTITLED “MUNICIPAL GROCERY TAX” TO IMPLEMENT A MUNICIPAL GROCERY
RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX AND A MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX FOR
THE CITY OF SYCAMORE, ILLINOIS.
 
WHEREAS, the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, provides that the
corporate authorities of each municipality may pass all ordinances and make all
rules and regulations proper or necessary, to carry into effect the powers
granted to municipalities, with such fines or penalties as may be deemed
proper; and,
   
WHEREAS, the City of Sycamore (“City”) is a home rule Illinois municipality
pursuant to the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970, as amended; and,
 
WHEREAS, Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24)
provides that, beginning on January 1, 2026, all Illinois municipalities may
impose a tax “upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at
retail in the municipality” (the “Municipal Grocery Tax”) (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24);
and,
 
WHEREAS, the Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax may be imposed “at the
rate of 1% of the gross receipts from these sales” (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24); and,
 
WHEREAS, any Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax shall be administered,
collected and enforced by the Illinois Department of Revenue; and,
 
WHEREAS, Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24)
requires any municipality imposing a Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation
Tax under Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24) to
also impose a Service Occupation Tax at the same rate, “upon all persons
engaged, in the municipality, in the business of making sales of service, who,
as an incident to making those sales of service, transfer groceries” as “an
incident to a sale of service” (the “Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax”)
(65 ILCS 5/8-11-24); and,
 
WHEREAS, any Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax shall be administered,
collected and enforced by the Illinois Department of Revenue; and,
 
WHEREAS, the Mayor and City Council of the City believe that it is appropriate,
necessary and in the best interests of the City and its residents, that the
City levy a Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax as permitted by Section
8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24); and,
 
WHEREAS, the Mayor and City Council of the City believe that it is appropriate,
necessary and in the best interests of the City and its residents, that the
City levy a Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax as permitted by Section 8-
11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24); and,
 
NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained, by the City Council of the City of Sycamore as
follows:
 
Section 1. Incorporation of Recitals. The foregoing recitals shall be and are
hereby incorporated as findings of fact as if said recitals were fully set
forth herein.
 
Section 2. Adoption. The City of Sycamore hereby adopts the Municipal Grocery
Retailers’ Occupation Tax.
 
Section 3. That Title 3, “BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS,” shall be amended
by adding a new Chapter 27 entitled, “MUNICIPAL GROCERY TAX,” as follows:
 
CHAPTER 27
MUNICIPAL GROCERY TAX
 
SECTION:
 
3-27-1:   Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax Imposed
3-27-2:   Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax
3-27-3:   Illinois Department of Revenue to Administer Both Taxes
 
 
3-27-1:   MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED:
 
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
groceries at retail in this municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
Ordinance is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65
ILCS 5/8-11-24).
 
 
3-27-2:   MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
 
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales
of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of
this tax shall be the same rate identified in Section 3-27-1, above. The
imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of
Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
 
3-27-3:   ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TO ADMINISTER BOTH TAXES.
 
The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this Ordinance.
 
Section 4. Clerk to file Ordinance with Illinois Department of Revenue. As
required under Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-
24), the Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this Ordinance
with the Illinois Department of Revenue on or before October 1, 2025.
 
Section 5. Effective Date. The taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall take
effect on the later of: (i) January 1, 2026; (ii) the first day of July next
following the adoption and filing of this Ordinance with the Department of
Revenue, if filed on or before the preceding April 1st; or, (iii) the first day
of January next following the adoption and filing of this Ordinance with the
Department of Revenue, if filed on or before the preceding October 1st.
 
Section 6. Repeal of Conflicting Provisions. All ordinances, resolutions and
policies or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this Ordinance
are, to the extent of the conflict, expressly repealed on the effective date of
this Ordinance.
 
Section 7. Severability. If any provision of this Ordinance or application
thereof to any person or circumstances is ruled unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of
this Ordinance that can be given effect without the invalid application or
provision, and each invalid provision or invalid application of this Ordinance
is severable.
 
Section 8. Headings/Captions. The headings/captions identifying the various
sections and subsections of this Ordinance are for reference only and do not
define, modify, expand or limit any of the terms or provisions of the
Ordinance. Section 10. Publication. The Clerk is directed by the corporate
authorities to publish this Ordinance in pamphlet form. This Ordinance shall be
in full force and effect after its passage and publication in accordance with
65 ILCS 5/1-2-4.
 
Section 9.   That this Ordinance shall, by authority of the City Council of the
City of Sycamore, Illinois, be published in pamphlet form, from and after ten
days after said publication, this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect.
 
   Passed by the City Council of the City of Sycamore and approved by the Mayor
of said City this 21 st day of July, 2025.
 
Ayes:      ______
Nays:    ______
Abstain:    ______
 
 
APPROVED: July 21, 2025            ATTEST:
 
 
____________________________         ____________________________
MAYOR – Steve Braser            CLERK – Mary Kalk
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025.14
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 3, “BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS,” CHAPTER 2,
“LIQUOR CONTROL,” SECTION 3-2-6.A.15 OF THE CITY CODE OF THE CITY OF SYCAMORE,
ILLINOIS.
 
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council for the City of Sycamore
as follows:
 
1.    That Title 3, “BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS,” Chapter 2, “LIQUOR
CONTROL,” Section 6, “CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES; HOURS AND DAYS,” be
amended by repealing paragraph A.15. in its entirety and replacing it with the
following (bold signifies additional language to existing provision):
 
3-2-6:      CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES; HOURS AND DAYS:
 
A.   Classification And Fees:
 
15.   Class M; Tasting Room: Class "M," which shall authorize the holder of a
Class D liquor license from the city to operate a tasting room for the sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises. It is the intention of a
Class M liquor license that the tasting room liquor license classification
shall be an amenity and an accessory use to the primary business (Class D
liquor license sales) operated by the applicant on the premises for the
purposes of product sampling only. A Class M liquor license shall be subject to
the following conditions and restrictions:
 
a.   The tasting room may serve alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises in a manner intended for tasting, sampling, and evaluation purposes
but within the meaning of the definition of "licensed establishment" under 230
ILCS 40/5.  The tasting room may serve a maximum of six (6) samples, consisting
of no more than (i) half (0.5) ounce of distilled spirits, (ii) two (2) ounces
of wine, or (iii) four (4) ounces of beer to a consumer in one (1) day.
 
b.   The primary Class D licensed premises may sell alcoholic liquor as a
packaged item for off-site consumption. The sale of packaged goods from the
tasting room is prohibited.
 
c.   Customers may only consume the alcoholic liquor purchased in the tasting
room on premises. No customer may leave the licensed premises with open
alcohol.
 
d.   The tasting room shall be limited in size to no more than five hundred
(500) square feet in total and may be segregated into multiple rooms for
separate tastings. The tasting room(s) must have a continuous, unobstructed
passage and view to the primary Class D licensed premises.
 
e.   All persons serving alcoholic liquor in the tasting room for consumption
on the premises must be BASSET certified.
 
f.   The tasting room shall comply with all building, fire, and other codes of
the city.
 
g.   The annual fee for Class M licenses shall be two hundred and fifty dollars
($250.00).
 
2.    That each section, paragraph, sentence, clause, and provision of this
Ordinance is separable and if any provision is held unconstitutional or invalid
for any reason, such decision shall not affect the remainder of this Ordinance
nor any part thereof, other than the part affected by such decision.
 
3.    That except as to the amendment heretofore mentioned, all chapters and
sections of the City Code of Sycamore, Illinois, shall remain in full force and
effect.
 
4.    That this Ordinance shall, by authority of the City Council of the City
of Sycamore, Illinois, be published in pamphlet form, from and after ten days
after said publication, this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect.
 
   Passed by the City Council of the City of Sycamore and approved by the Mayor
of said City this 18th day of August, 2025.
 
Ayes:      ______
 
Nays:    ______
 
Abstain:    ______
 
APPROVED:                ATTEST:
 
 
____________________________         ______________________________   
MAYOR – Steve Braser            CITY CLERK – Mary Kalk
 
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
CAVEAT
In the compilation of this City Code, Sterling Codifiers, Inc., was given the
authority by the City of Sycamore to use the 1988 Revised Ordinances Book,
without responsibility for the accuracy of said Ordinance Book. Those
provisions contained in this City Code are cited as (1988 Code §       ). Also
included in this City Code are ordinances passed since 1988 (Ordinance 88.12
and subsequent ordinances of the City).
Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
Coeur d'Alene, Idaho
ORDINANCE NO. 94.20
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY CODE OF SYCAMORE, ILLINOIS
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Sycamore,
Illinois a Illinois Municipal Corporation:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Sycamore, Illinois prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the Official
Code and Law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies of which
shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said Official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: Any person requesting a copy of the City Code of Sycamore,
Illinois shall request a copy from the City Clerk, and upon payment of $180.00
shall receive said copy.
   Section 6: Any person leaving the employ of the City of Sycamore, Illinois,
and who was provided a free copy of the Code, shall return said Code to the
City Clerk upon their leaving the employ of the City.
   Section 7: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 8: This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the Mayor and City
Council.
   Passed by the City Council of the City of Sycamore, and approved by the
Mayor of said City this  14th  day of  November 1994.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of Sycamore. This City
Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the SYCAMORE CITY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1994 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1994 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Preparation and Supplementation: Any ordinance amending the City Code
shall set forth the title, chapter and section number of the section or
sections to be amended and this shall constitute sufficient compliance with any
statutory requirement pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of
any part of this City Code. All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall
be immediately forwarded to the codifiers and the said ordinance material shall
be prepared for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this City Code.
Each such replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted
in each individual copy of the City Code. (1994 Code)
   B.   Recording Amendments:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to keep at least one copy of
the Municipal Code which he shall mark in the following manner: whenever any
ordinance which amends or makes an addition to the Code is passed and approved,
he shall note on the margin of the section or sections amended that such
amendment has been made, where the amendment may be found, and in the case of
an addition, he shall mark in the appropriate place a notation that such
addition has been made, with a similar reference to the aforementioned
amendment book.
      2.   The City Clerk shall also keep a separate book containing every
amendment or addition passed to this Code, with a reference on each copy of
such amendment or addition as to the place in the record of ordinances where
the original reference may be found.
      3.   The above-mentioned records shall be kept in addition to the record
of ordinances which the Clerk is required to keep by statute. (1988 Code
§27.203)
   C.   Amendments Considered Part of Code: Any additions or amendments to this
Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the Council to
make the same a part of this Code shall be deemed to be incorporated in this
Code so that a reference to the Municipal Code of Sycamore shall be understood
to include them. (1988 Code §27.201)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
person having in his custody a copy of the City Code shall make every effort to
maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the City Clerk.
Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be returned to
the office of the City Clerk when directed so to do by order of the City
Council. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways and Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; zoning ordinances; and all special ordinances. (1994 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1994 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable, if any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (1994 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this Code importing the plural
number is used, in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this Code by words importing the singular number only
or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as
well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included. The words
"person, firm or corporation", shall be deemed to include any association or
organization of any kind. Words in the present shall include the future. The
words "this Code" shall be held and taken to mean the entire Code, including
each and every section thereof. The word "City", whenever used in this Code
shall be held and taken to mean the City of Sycamore. The words "written" and
"in writing" may include printing. Provided, that these rules of construction
shall not be applied to any section of this Code which contains any express
provisions excluding such construction or where the subject matter or content
of such section may be repugnant thereto. (1988 Code §27.102)
   B.   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in
this Code shall be literally construed in order that the true intent of the
Mayor and Council may be fully carried out. (1988 Code §27.104)
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1994 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings as herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such
meanings repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   CITY: The City of Sycamore, County of DeKalb, State of Illinois.
   CODE: The Municipal Code of the City of Sycamore.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
City of Sycamore".
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation. (1994 Code)
   FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the City shall begin on May 1 of each year.
The Municipal year shall coincide with the fiscal year. (1988 Code §2.114)
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this Code. (1994 Code)
   OFFICERS and EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City
officer or employee by title only, this shall be construed as though followed
by the words "of the City of Sycamore" and shall be taken to mean the officer
or employee of this City having the title mentioned or performing the duties
indicated. (1988 Code §27.103)
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this
Code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1994 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such section, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   General Penalty: Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person
found to have been in violation of any of the terms and/or provisions of this
Code or the City's unified development ordinance shall be fined for the first
offense and each subsequent offense in an amount consistent with the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule if offender wishes to pay the City Clerk. If
offender seeks court adjudication, the fine amount can be found in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. No imprisonment for failure to pay such
fine, penalty or cost shall exceed six (6) months for each offense. Each day
that a violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense. A penalty
for each offense may include a requirement that the offending party perform
some reasonable public service work such as, but not limited to, picking up
litter in public parks or upon public highways or performing maintenance of
public facilities. A violation hereof may be established by a preponderance of
the evidence.
   B.   Misdemeanor: If, by the terms of an ordinance, an act that would be
consistent with the criminal laws of the State, is declared to be a
misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of incarceration in a
penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed six (6) months. The
matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal procedure of the State,
and the City shall be required to establish guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
(1994 Code; amd. Ord. 2017.21, 1-16-2018; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application To Code:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. (1994 Code)
      2.   In case of amendment of any section of this Code containing the
provisions for which a penalty is provided in another section, the penalty so
provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the amended section
or the amending section, whether reenacted in the amendatory ordinance or not,
unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein. (1988 Code §27.202)
   B.   Multiple Penalties: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this Code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Specific Penalty Not Provided: Whenever the doing of any act or the
omission to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this
Code and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such
breach, the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (1994 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1994
Code)
CHAPTER 4A
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF
NONVEHICULAR CODE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
1-4A-1: Purpose; Reservation Of Right; Authority
1-4A-2: Administrative Composition
1-4A-3: Procedures
1-4A-4: Administrative Hearings
1-4A-5: Representation At Hearings
1-4A-6: Fines; Compliance Bond
1-4A-7: Violations Of Orders
1-4A-8: Administrative Review
1-4A-9: Judgment And Collection
1-4A-10: Election Of Remedies Nonexclusive
1-4A-1: PURPOSE; RESERVATION OF RIGHT; AUTHORITY:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a fair and efficient method of
enforcing the city's regulations through administrative adjudication of charges
of nonvehicular violations of this code. All provisions of this code may be
enforced through the administrative adjudication system, provided the system
shall have no authority to impose a penalty of incarceration or adjudicate an
offense under the Illinois motor vehicle code which is a traffic regulation
governing moving vehicles, or to impose a fine in excess of fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00). The city reserves its right to employ all other means and
methods available under the law to enforce this code, including direct
application to the courts.
Pursuant to the authority conferred by section 1-2.1-1 et seq., of the Illinois
municipal code which authorizes home rule municipalities to provide by
ordinance for a system of administrative adjudication of municipal code
violations to the extent permitted by the Illinois constitution, the city
hereby creates a system of administrative adjudication for charges of
violations of this code. The city hereby adopts 1-2.1-1 et seq., as amended
from time to time. In the event of conflict between said statutes and this
chapter, this chapter shall prevail. The adoption of this chapter does not
preclude the city from using other lawful methods to enforce the provisions of
this code. (Ord. 2015.54, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-2: ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION:
The system of administrative adjudication of nonvehicular regulations
violations shall be composed of a code hearing unit which shall be comprised of
a hearing officer, and may include any one or more of the following: an
administrator, a computer operator/system coordinator, and hearing room
personnel (deputy), with the power, authority, and limitations as are
hereinafter set forth:
   A.   Powers Of The Hearing Officer: The hearing officer shall have all of
the powers granted to hearing officers under state law, set forth at section 1-
2.1-4 of the Illinois municipal code, as amended, the provisions of which are
incorporated herein by this reference, including the power to:
      1.   Preside over all administrative hearings as the adjudicator.
      2.   Administer oaths.
      3.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the existence
of the code violation.
      4.   Issue subpoenas to secure the attendance of witnesses and the
production of relevant papers or documentation upon the request of the parties
or their representatives.
      5.   Rule upon objections and the admissibility of evidence.
      6.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all exhibits
and evidence introduced at the hearing.
      7.   Issue a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, of whether a code violation exists. The determination shall be in
writing and shall include a written finding of fact, decision, and order
setting forth the fine, penalty, or action with which the person found liable
must comply.
      8.   Impose penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and
assess costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation.
Notwithstanding those violations for which the Illinois municipal code, as
amended, limits the fine or penalty to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00),
the hearing officer shall have the authority to impose fines and penalties up
to fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). When applicable, each day a code
provision is found to have been violated by the defendant shall constitute a
separate offense, and each separate offense subjects the respondent to the
penalty provided by the governing penalty provision. In addition to imposing
penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and assessing costs upon
finding a party liable for the charged violation, the hearing officer may:
         a.   Impose, in addition to fines, administrative and/or enforcement
costs, and when applicable, impose costs incurred by the city for effecting
compliance with code provision(s) for which a defendant has been found liable.
         b.   Order, notwithstanding fines imposed or costs assessed, the
defendant to comply with code provision(s) found to have been violated, and, if
appropriate, order the respondent to post a compliance bond as provided by
section
1-4A-6 of this chapter.
         c.   Order, regardless of fines imposed or costs assessed, the
defendant to perform a term of community service.
      9.   In no event shall a hearing officer have the authority to:
         a.   Impose a penalty of incarceration.
         b.   Impose a fine in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
The maximum monetary fine under subsection A9b of this section shall be
exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs imposed to secure compliance with
this code and shall not be applicable to cases to enforce the collection of any
tax imposed and collected by the city.
   B.   Powers Of The Administrator: The administrator shall be empowered and
is authorized and directed to:
      1.   Operate and manage this system of administrative adjudication of
nonvehicular code violations.
      2.   Adopt, distribute, and process code violation notices and other
notices as may be required to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
      3.   Collect monies paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a final
determination of a code violation.
      4.   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain this administrative adjudication system.
      5.   Collect unpaid fines and penalties and otherwise pursue all
postjudgment remedies available under law.
      6.   Compromise or otherwise settle violation notices prior to a hearing
date. However, any such compromise should be made of record by the
administrator on the date the violation notice was scheduled to appear for
hearing, with an explanation by the administrator as to the reasons for such
compromise. The hearing officer is also required to approve any such compromise
or settlement at the hearing.
   C.   Powers Of The System Coordinator/Computer Operator: The system
coordinator/computer operator shall operate and maintain computer programs for
the administrative adjudication system created hereunder, on a day to day
basis, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Input of violation notice information.
      2.   Input of hearing and notice dates.
      3.   Input of fine and penalty assessments and payments.
      4.   Issuance of receipts for payment.
      5.   Issuance of succeeding notices of hearing dates or court dates and/
or final determination of liability as directed by the administrator or by the
hearing officer in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth.
      6.   Maintenance of accurate records of appearances and nonappearances at
administrative hearings, pleas entered, fines and penalties assessed and paid.
   D.   Selection And Appointment Of Personnel: The persons who shall hold the
positions of hearing officer, administrator, computer operator/systems
coordinator, and hearing room personnel under this chapter shall be selected
and appointed according to the following procedures:
      1.   Hearing Officer Appointment: The hearing officer shall be appointed
by the city manager and shall serve pursuant to the terms set forth in an
employment agreement for such services as determined by the city manager.
Hearing officers shall be subject to removal at the sole discretion of the city
manager.
      2.   Information Considered: In making selections, the city manager shall
consider all pertinent information, including, at a minimum:
         a.   Candidate's ability to comply with the job descriptions as set
forth herein; and
         b.   Background and performance data made available to the city
manager on file with the city, or otherwise obtained by the city; and
         c.   Whether the candidate meets the statutory criteria as an attorney
licensed to practice law in the state of Illinois for at least three (3) years.
      3.   Administrator, System Coordinator And Hearing Room Personnel:
         a.   The city manager shall assign the duties of administrator, system
coordinator and hearing room personnel to city employees.
   E.   Compensation: The compensation to be paid for the hearing officer shall
be established annually by the city manager.
   F.   Training Of Personnel: Prior to a hearing officer conducting these
administrative adjudication proceedings, the hearing officer must either:
      1.   Demonstrate a minimum of three (3) years' experience as a hearing
officer for a program of administrative adjudication of violations of
nonvehicular regulations; or
      2.   Successfully complete a formal training program pursuant to section
1-2.1-4(c) of the Illinois municipal code, as amended. (Ord. 2015.54, 4-18-
2016)
1-4A-3: PROCEDURES:
The system of administrative adjudication of nonvehicular regulations
violations shall be conducted in accordance with the following procedures to
assure defendants are afforded due process of law:
   A.   Issuance Of Violation Notices: Code violation notices may be issued by
any authorized person and shall contain information and shall be served,
certified and have evidentiary value as hereinafter stated. Certain violation
notices may be issued in the form of a "C" ticket allowing the recipient to pay
the stated fine prior to any hearing. If the recipient fails to pay the
required fine within the allotted time under the "C" ticket, the violation
notice will be processed through the administrative adjudication system as
otherwise provided for in this chapter.
   B.   Authorization: All full time and auxiliary police officers and other
specifically appointed individuals including, but not limited to, specifically
appointed code enforcement officers and building inspectors, shall have the
authority to issue violation notices. For the purposes of this section and for
the purposes of any inspections relating to the enforcement of any city
ordinances or codes, authorized designees, shall also include, but not be
limited to, any person retained by the city pursuant to a contract to perform
ordinance/code enforcement or inspection related services.
   C.   Detection Of Violations: Any individual authorized to issue a violation
notice who detects a violation of any nonvehicular regulation shall issue a
notice of violation thereof and shall serve the violation notice as herein
provided.
   D.   Content: Violation notices shall contain, at a minimum:
      1.   The date, time and place of the violation (date of issuance).
      2.   The particular code section or regulation violated.
      3.   The common address of the building or property alleged to be in
violation (the "cited property"), if applicable.
      4.   The signature and identification number, if applicable, of the
person issuing the violation notice.
      5.   The date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which the
charge may be contested on its merits. This date shall be no less than fifteen
(15) days after the date of service of the violation notice. A hearing may be
set at a date less than fifteen (15) days after the date of service of the
violation in an emergency situation where the violation constitutes a threat to
public interest, safety or welfare.
      6.   A statement of penalties for failure to appear at the hearing.
      7.   If the violation notice is issued as a "C" ticket, the notice shall
include the amount of the fine and the date required for payment of the fine.
The notice under the "C" ticket shall also apprise the recipient that the
failure to pay the stated fine within the allotted time will operate to process
the violation notice within the administrative adjudication system as otherwise
provided for by this chapter.
   E.   Service Of Violation Notices: Service of violation notices shall be
made in a manner reasonably calculated to give the defendant actual notice by:
      1.   Handing a copy of the violation notice to the person charged; or
      2.   Delivering a copy of the violation notice to the person charged by
certified mail, return receipt requested. Such service shall be completed as of
the date of deposit in the United States mail.
      3.   If a violation of title 9, "Building Regulations", of this code is
alleged where the person charged is an owner or manager of the property,
posting a copy on the cited property.
   F.   Certification: The correctness of facts contained in the violation
notice shall be certified by the issuing person by:
      1.   Signing his or her name to the violation notice at the time of
issuance; or
      2.   In the case of a violation notice produced by a computer device, by
signing a single certificate, to be kept by the administrator, attesting to the
correctness of all violation notices produced by the device while under his/her
control.
   G.   Business Records: The original or complete copy of the violation notice
shall be retained and kept as a record in the ordinary course of city business.
   H.   Prima Facie Evidence: Any violation notice issued, signed and served in
accordance herewith, or a complete copy of the notice, shall be deemed prima
facie correct and shall be considered prima facie evidence of the facts alleged
therein.
   I.   Admissibility: The violation notices shall be admissible in any
subsequent administrative or legal proceeding. (Ord. 2015.54, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
An administrative hearing shall be held to adjudicate an alleged code violation
on its merits, or to contest the validity of a violation notice. Specifically,
hearings shall be held to adjudicate alleged violations of all code sections
except those that are excluded by law from the city's administrative
adjudication system:
   A.   Time And Date: Hearings shall be on the date, time and place as set
forth in the violation notice issued and served.
   B.   Recording: Hearings shall be audibly recorded.
   C.   Nonappearance: Persons who do not appear on their scheduled hearing
date shall have a default judgment entered against them.
   D.   Hearing Rights: Persons appearing to contest an alleged code violation
may be represented by counsel of their own choice at their own expense, may
present witnesses, may present testimony and documents, may cross examine
opposing witnesses, and may request the issuance of subpoenas to compel the
appearance of relevant witnesses or the production of relevant documents.
   E.   Evidentiary Standard: The formal and technical rules of evidence do not
apply in an administrative hearing conducted in compliance with this chapter.
Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted, pursuant to state law set forth
at section 1-2.1-6 of the Illinois municipal code, as amended, only if it is of
the type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of
their affairs.
   F.   Determination Of Liability: Hearings shall result in a default
judgment, or a determination of liability or nonliability, made by the hearing
officer, who shall consider facts and/or testimony. The hearing officer shall,
upon a determination of liability, assess fines and penalties in accordance
with this chapter and issue a notice of final determination that shall contain,
at a minimum, the following information and warnings:
      1.   The findings, decision and order of the hearing officer.
      2.   A date by which the violation must be brought into compliance with
this code.
      3.   A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a debt
due and owing the city.
      4.   A warning that the findings, decision and order of the hearing
officer may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of
competent jurisdiction. In the case in which a defendant fails to comply with a
judgment ordering the correction of a code violation or imposing any fine or
other sanction as a result of the code violation, a statement that any expenses
incurred by the city to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to,
attorney fees, court costs and costs related to property demolition or
foreclosure, shall be a debt due and owing the city and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
      5.   A notice of judgment entered by default shall be forwarded to any
person who fails to appear and shall contain the same information as a
determination of liability, but shall also state that the judgment may be set
aside by the hearing officer if, within twenty one (21) days of issuance of the
judgment, a petition is received stating what the hearing officer determines is
good cause for failure to appear. The hearing officer, upon making a
determination of good cause, shall, within the twenty one (21) day period,
provide the petitioner with notice of a new hearing date or denial of the
petition. The default judgment shall state that it shall constitute a final
determination of liability if such petition is not received, if the petition is
denied or if after setting of a new hearing date the person fails to appear.
   G.   Final Determination: The determination of liability shall constitute a
final determination for purposes of judicial review and shall be subject to
review under the Illinois administrative review law, as amended. (Ord. 2015.54,
4-18-2016)
1-4A-5: REPRESENTATION AT HEARINGS:
   A.   City Representation: The case for the city may be presented by a city
employee, or by an attorney designated by the corporation counsel, but not by
an employee or other representative of the code hearing unit, subject to the
following exception: Documentary evidence prepared by another department of the
city and submitted to the code hearing unit may be presented at the hearing by
the hearing officer.
   B.   Defendant Representation: The case for the defendant may be presented
by the defendant or by an attorney or agent of the defendant. An attorney or
agent appearing at an administrative hearing on behalf of a defendant shall
present the hearing officer with a signed appearance form stating, on oath or
affirmation, that he or she has been authorized by the defendant to represent
the defendant at the hearing. (Ord. 2015.54, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-6: FINES; COMPLIANCE BOND:
   A.   All fines and other monies to be paid to the city in accordance with
this chapter shall be remitted to the city and deposited in the appropriate
city account as designated by the city manager, or his designee.
   B.   To ensure that code violations are remedied in a timely manner, the
hearing officer, upon issuing a determination of liability that includes an
order of compliance, may order the defendant in the case to obtain a bond to
ensure defendant's timely compliance with the code provision(s) found to have
been violated. Any bond ordered pursuant to this subsection shall name the city
as beneficiary and shall be in the amount specified by the hearing officer,
provided that the amount of the bond shall be reasonably related to the cost of
compliance. Any bond issued as a result of the hearing officer's order is
subject to review and modification by the city manager as to form and amount.
If the defendant fails to remedy in a timely manner the code violation(s) for
which a bond has been ordered and issued and the city undertakes remediation or
otherwise expends funds related to the code violation(s) for which a bond has
been ordered and issued, the hearing officer, after giving the parties notice
and opportunity to be heard, may issue an order permitting the city to draw
against the bond in an appropriate amount. The hearing officer shall order the
bond amount, less the reasonable costs incurred by the city, returned to the
defendant upon proof of compliance with the code provision(s) found to have
been violated.
   C.   In the event a defendant ordered to secure a bond as provided by
subsection B of this section seeks judicial review of that portion of the
hearing officer's order requiring a bond and prevails on that issue, the city
shall release the bond, and if the city has drawn against the bond, the city
shall refund to the defendant the total amount drawn within thirty (30) days of
receiving a copy of the reviewing court's mandate. (Ord. 2015.54, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-7: VIOLATIONS OF ORDERS:
Any person, having received notice and an opportunity for a hearing as provided
in this chapter, who knowingly fails to comply with an order issued by the
hearing officer under this chapter, including the issuance of a subpoena,
shall, if the order is not stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction prior to
its effective date, be guilty of contempt. Contempt shall be enforceable only
by the judicial system of the circuit court for the 23rd judicial circuit,
DeKalb County, Illinois, and shall be punishable by applicable law. Each day
that the violation continues shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense. In a prosecution under this section, it shall not be a defense that a
person came into compliance with an order, sought judicial review of it, or
made efforts to comply with an order, subsequent to its effective date. (Ord.
2015.54, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-8: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
The administrative review of final determinations issued by the hearing officer
under this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of the Illinois
administrative review law, as amended, which sections are incorporated herein
by reference. (Ord. 2015.54, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-9: JUDGMENT AND COLLECTION:
   A.   Enforcement: Upon expiration of the period in which judicial review
under the Illinois administrative review law may be sought for a final
determination of a code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the findings, decision and order of the hearing officer may be
enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   B.   Court Costs, Attorney Fees And Costs Of Collection: In any case in
which a person has failed to comply with a hearing officer's judgment ordering
the correction of a code violation or imposing any fine or other sanction as a
result of a code violation, any expenses incurred by the city to enforce the
judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney fees, court costs, and costs
related to property cleanup, demolition or foreclosure, after they are fixed by
a court of competent jurisdiction or by the hearing officer shall be a debt due
and owing the city and may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
      1.   Prior to any expenses being fixed by the hearing officer pursuant to
this subsection, the city shall provide notice to the person that states that
the person shall appear at a hearing before the hearing officer to determine
whether the person has failed to comply with the judgment. The notice shall set
the date for such hearing, which shall not be less than seven (7) days from the
date that notice is served. If notice is served by mail, the seven (7) day
period shall begin on the date the notice was deposited in the mail.
      2.   Upon being recorded in the manner required by article 12 of the code
of civil procedure, as amended, or by the uniform commercial code, as amended,
a lien shall be imposed on the real estate or personal estate, or both, of the
person in the amount of any debt due and owing the city under this section. The
lien may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien would be enforced in
a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   Default: A default in the payment of a fine or penalty or any
installment of a fine or penalty may be collected by any means authorized for
the collection of monetary judgments. The municipal attorney of the
municipality in which the fine or penalty was imposed may retain attorneys and
private collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment
of any fine or penalty or installment of that fine or penalty. Any fees or
costs incurred by the municipality with respect to attorneys or private
collection agents retained by the municipal attorney under this section shall
be charged to the offender. (Ord. 2015.54, 4-18-2016)
1-4A-10: ELECTION OF REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the city from pursuing all
available remedies, allowed by law, to collect money judgments. (Ord. 2015.54,
4-18-2016)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election and Term
1-5-2: Bond
1-5-3: Powers and Duties
1-5-4: Formal Occasions
1-5-5: Absence of Mayor
1-5-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
The mayor shall be elected for a four (4) year term and shall serve until his
successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute. 1  (Ord. 2024.21,
9-16-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10.
1-5-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the mayor shall execute a bond
in such amount and with such sureties as may be required by the council,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his office;
provided, the amount of such bond shall not be less than three thousand dollars
($3,000.00). 1  (Ord. 2024.21, 9-16-2024)
 
Notes
1 2. 2.65 ILCS 5/3. 1-10-30.
1-5-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The mayor shall preside over the meetings of the council and perform such
duties as may be required for him by statute or ordinance. He shall have all
emergency powers authorized, from time to time by statute or ordinance. The
mayor shall serve as a spokesperson for the community, facilitate communication
and understanding between elected and appointed officials, assist the council
in setting goals and advocating policy decisions, serve as a promoter of the
community; and serve as a key representative in intergovernmental relations.
(Ord. 2024.21, 9-16-2024)
1-5-4: FORMAL OCCASIONS:
The mayor shall act for and on behalf of the city on formal occasions and
receptions, but in his absence or inability to attend such function, the
council may select any other city officer to so act. (Ord. 2024.21, 9-16-2024)
1-5-5: ABSENCE OF MAYOR:
   A.   If the mayor is unable to attend meetings of the council or to attend
to the administration of the city due to temporary, voluntary absence, such as
vacations, the mayor can appoint a member of the city council to assume mayor's
duties.
   B.   In the event of the mayor's death, disability or resignation, the city
council could vote to appoint someone as acting mayor until a new mayor is
elected. (Ord. 2024.21, 9-16-2024)
CHAPTER 6
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election; Function; Number Of Council Members
1-6-2: Meetings
1-6-3: Quorum
1-6-4: Rules Of Order
1-6-5: Committees
1-6-6: Records
1-6-7: Smoking Prohibited; Penalty
1-6-8: Tourism Account
1-6-9: General Fund Reserve Account
1-6-10: Electronic Attendance
1-6-1: ELECTION; FUNCTION; NUMBER OF COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The members of the city council shall be elected and serve for a four (4) year
term. The council shall be the legislative division of the city government and
shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be authorized by statute.
Notwithstanding the population of the city, there shall be eight (8) members of
the city council: two (2) from each ward. (Ord. 2011.11, 7-18-2011)
1-6-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the council shall be held at
the city hall on the first and third Mondays of every month at the hour of six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. in the chambers provided for the city council on the second
floor in the municipal building, situated at 308 West State Street in the city.
Provided, that if the regular meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting
shall take place on the succeeding Tuesday at the same hour, unless otherwise
ordered by the council. Adjourned meetings may be held at such time as the
council may determine.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the council may be called by the
mayor or three (3) aldermen; provided, that a written notice of such meeting
shall be given to each member of the council at least twenty four (24) hours
before the time set for the meeting. Provided further, that in case all of the
elected members of the council are present at any special meeting, then the
requirement of notice shall be unnecessary and shall be deemed waived. Provided
further, that any alderman may waive notice as to himself, in writing.
   C.   Presiding Officer: The mayor shall be the presiding officer of the
council at all regular or special meetings and when the council meets as a
committee of the whole.
   D.   Penalty For Nonattendance: If any alderman shall wilfully neglect or
refuse to attend any regular meeting of the city council, of which notice as
required by law 1  and ordinance shall have been given, without having any just
cause for so doing (what shall constitute just cause to be determined in every
case by the members present at such meeting), he may, by a majority vote of
those present, be fined in accordance with the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee Schedule, and any alderman who shall wilfully neglect or refuse to attend
or remain away from the meeting of the city council for a period of three (3)
months shall be deemed to have forfeited his office and the same is hereby
declared vacant and it shall be billed as in other cases of vacancies. Each
alderman may miss two (2) meetings per year without penalty to pay.
   E.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful to disturb any meeting of the
city council or of any committee thereof or to behave in a disorderly manner at
any such meeting. Any person violating any provision of this subsection shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (1988 Code §§ 2.103, 2.104, 2.106, and 12.111; amd. 1994
Code; Ord. 2003.28, 6-16-2003; Ord. 2022.16, 12-19-2022; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
 
Notes
1 5 ILCS 120/2.02.
1-6-3: QUORUM:
A majority of the elected members of the council shall constitute a quorum
thereof, but no ordinance or measure for the expenditure of money shall be
passed, except upon the favorable vote of a majority of the elected members as
provided by statute 1 . (1988 Code §2.105)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40.
1-6-4: RULES OF ORDER:
   A.   Order Of Business: The order of business at meetings of the city
council shall be as follows:
      1.   Roll call of members;
      2.   Invocation;
      3.   Approval of agenda;
      4.   Audience to visitors;
      5.   Consent agenda:
         a.   Approval of minutes of city council meeting;
         b.   Payment of bills;
      6.   Presentation of petitions, communications and bills;
      7.   Reports of officers;
      8.   Reports of standing committees;
      9.   Public hearings;
      10.   Ordinances:
         a.   Second reading;
         b.   First reading;
      11.   Resolutions;
      12.   Considerations;
      13.   Appointments;
      14.   Council reports; and
      15.   Adjournment. (Ord. 98.68, 1-4-1999)
   B.   Agenda: There shall be prepared and made available to all council
members and local news media, not later than the end of the working day on the
Thursday directly preceding regular council meetings, an agenda for each
regular council meeting which shall indicate the matters to be voted upon at
said council meeting. Said agenda shall be prepared by the city clerk and shall
include, but not be limited to, a brief title or description of all proposed
ordinances, resolutions and contracts. (1988 Code §3.102)
   C.   Rescinded Action: No vote or action of the city council shall be
rescinded at any special meeting unless there be present at such special
meeting as many members of the council as were present at the meeting when such
vote or action was taken, as provided by statute. (1988 Code §3.103)
   D.   Resolutions:
      1.   Any petition that is to be sent to the Sycamore plan commission or
the Sycamore board of appeals, does not need to appear before the city council
prior to its being sent to the appropriate board or commission. The appropriate
city officer hereby has the authority to send the petition directly to the
appropriate commission or board. Said petition will be placed on the agenda for
the next available board or commission meeting, and that board or commission
will follow their rules, and refer the matter to the Sycamore city council for
its consideration.
      2.   Every ordinance considered by the city council shall not be voted
on, unless the ordinance has appeared before the city council on two (2)
occasions. The first appearance is to be considered a first reading where no
vote will take place. The next appearance shall be at the next regular meeting
and will be considered a second reading, at which time the ordinance shall be
considered open for discussion and vote, according to rules.
      3.   All ordinances shall be read by title only, unless a full reading is
requested by one of the members of the city council.
      4.   The necessity of an ordinance appearing twice may be waived by
affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the city council present
at the meeting at which the ordinance and/or resolution is before it. All
ordinances shall be available for review by any member of the city council
prior to the meeting being called to order. (Ord. 91.57, 2-10-1992)
   E.   Addressing Meetings: No person other than the mayor, member of the city
council, or other municipal officer or employee shall address that body at any
regular or special meeting of the city council except upon consent of the
majority of the city council members present. However, any individual may
address the city council during the audience to visitors section of the agenda.
During this portion of the agenda, each individual will be allowed up to three
(3) minutes to address the city council, provided that the individual requested
permission to speak during the audience to visitors section of the agenda. Any
individual that wishes to address the city council with regard to an ordinance
and/or resolution on the agenda for that meeting shall be allowed to speak at
the time that the ordinance is to be considered by the city council pursuant to
the agenda. Any person addressing the meeting without the foregoing consent,
and having been notified to do so by the presiding officer, shall be presumed
to have disturbed the meeting as set forth in subsection
 1-6-2E of this chapter. (Ord. 2015.04, 5-4-2015)
   F.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of order, other than those prescribed by
statute, may be suspended at any time by consent of a majority of the members
present at any meeting. (1988 Code §3.106)
   G.   Robert's Rules Of Order: Except when in conflict with the foregoing
provisions, "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern the deliberations of the
council. (1988 Code §3.107)
1-6-5: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Special Committees: The mayor shall appoint such special committees as
he or she may deem necessary or as may be directed by the city council.
   B.   Membership In Committees:
      1.   The mayor shall appoint the members of all special committees with
the advice and consent of the council and shall designate the chairperson
thereof.
      2.   Every committee of the council shall consist of five (5) members,
including the chairperson, unless the city council shall provide otherwise.
(Ord. 2024.14, 9-3-2024)
1-6-6: RECORDS:
The city clerk shall keep the minutes and records of the council proceedings.
(1988 Code §2.110)
1-6-7: SMOKING PROHIBITED; PENALTY:
Smoking is hereby prohibited in the city council chambers. "No Smoking" signs
shall be reasonably posted in said council chambers. Any person violating any
provision of this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (1988 Code §2.112; amd. 1994 Code)
1-6-8: TOURISM ACCOUNT:
There is established a tourism account to which the city council may allocate
monies from time to time and only the city council may commit or authorize the
expenditure of monies from the tourism account. (Ord. 98.03, 6-8-1998)
1-6-9: GENERAL FUND RESERVE ACCOUNT:
There is established a general fund reserve account that may be segregated and
placed in a separate fund. The general fund reserve account may accumulate and
may be added to and accumulate in subsequent budgets. The amount of one million
five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000.00) shall be reserved and any amounts
above one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000.00) shall be
unreserved. The additions to the general fund reserve account will be treated
in a similar manner with the first monies appropriated. Only the city council
may commit or authorize the expenditure of reserved monies from the general
fund reserve account. The city may draw funds from the unreserved portion of
the general fund reserve account as needed from time to time and repay the said
account as general operating revenues are available. (Ord. 2002.50, 11-4-2002)
1-6-10: ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE:
   A.   Rules Statement: It is the decision of the City of Sycamore that any
member of the City Council may attend any open or closed meeting of the City of
Sycamore Council via electronic means (such as by telephone, video, or internet
connection) provided that such attendance is in compliance with these rules and
any applicable laws.
   B.   Prerequisites: A member of the City of Sycamore Council may attend a
meeting electronically if the member meets the following conditions: A quorum
is physically present throughout the meeting; a majority of the members present
votes to approve the electronic attendance at the meeting; and the requesting
member meetings the following conditions:
      1.   The member must notify the City Manager at least two (2) days before
the meeting, unless impractical, so that necessary communications equipment can
be arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical arrangements will result
in denial of a request for electronic attendance.
      2.   The member must assert one of the following three reasons why he or
she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
         a.   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability;
         b.   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the City of Sycamore; or
         c.   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency.
      3.   The City Manager, after receiving the electronic attendance request,
shall inform the Aldermen of the City of Sycamore of the request for electronic
attendance.
   C.   Voting Procedures: Providing the above prerequisites have been met and
following roll call to establish that a quorum is physically present at the
meeting site, a motion shall be made and considered as to whether to allow the
member to remotely attend the meeting via electronic means. A vote may be taken
to permit participation for a stated series of meetings if the same reason
applies to each case and proper notice has been provided. Otherwise, a vote
must be taken to allow each remote participation via electronic means. The
motion must be approved by a vote of a majority of the members of Council
present.
   D.   Adequate Equipment Required: The member participating electronically,
and other members of the City of Sycamore Council, must be able to communicate
effectively, and members of the audience must be able to hear all
communications at the meeting site. Before allowing electronic attendance at
any meeting, the City of Sycamore shall provide equipment adequate to
accomplish this objective at the meeting site.
   E.   Minutes: Any member attending electronically shall be considered an
off-site attendee and counted as present electronically for that meeting. The
meeting minutes shall also reflect and state specifically whether each member
is physically present or present by electronic means.
   F.   Rights of Remote Member: A member permitted to attend electronically
will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and participate
in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject to all
general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered to.
The member attending electronically shall be heard, considered, and counted as
to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member attending electronically
shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded
by the City Clerk and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A
member attending electronically may leave a meeting and return as in the case
of any member, provided the member attending electronically shall announce his
or her leaving and returning.
   G.   Meetings: The term “meeting” as used herein refers to any gathering,
whether in person or by video or audio conference, telephone call, electronic
means (such as, without limitation, electronic mail, electronic chat, and
instant messaging), or other means of contemporaneous interactive
communication, of a majority of a quorum of the members of a public body held
for the purposes of discussing public business.
   H.   Closed Meetings: A quorum of the City Council must be physically
present at any closed meeting. Members participating remotely shall otherwise
be entitled to participate in closed meetings by video or audio conference, in
the same manner as at an open meeting.
   I.   Committees, Boards, and Commissions: These rules shall apply to all
committees, boards, and commissions established by authority of the City of
Sycamore. (Ord. 2020.04, 6-15-2020)
CHAPTER 7
CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election And Term
1-7-2: Bond
1-7-3: Powers And Duties
1-7-4: Additional Duties; Deputy Clerk
1-7-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
The city clerk shall be elected and serve for a four (4) year term and until
the successor is elected and qualified as provided by statute 1 . (1988 Code
§5.101)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-5.
1-7-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of office, the city clerk shall execute a bond
in such amount and with such sureties as may be reasonably required by the
council, conditioned upon the faithful performance of duties, but in no event
shall the amount of bond exceed that given by the city treasurer 2 . (1988 Code
§5.102)
 
Notes
2 2. See section
  1-8-2 of this title for city treasurer bond provisions.
1-7-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Signatures: The city clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the
city and all licenses and other such documents as shall require this formality.
(1988 Code §5.103)
   B.   Collector: The city clerk shall receive on behalf of the city all
license, permit and other fees, payable directly to the city and shall turn
over all monies received on behalf of the city to the city's finance office
promptly on receipt of the same, and shall give a statement as to the source
thereof. (Ord. 2000.83, 4-16-2001)
   C.   Accounts: The clerk shall keep accounts showing all monies received and
the source and disposition thereof and such other accounts as may be required
by statute or ordinance. (1988 Code §5.105)
   D.   Records: In addition to the record of ordinances and other records
which the clerk is required by statute to keep, the clerk shall keep a register
of all licenses and permits issued and the payment thereon, a record showing
all of the officers and regular employees of the city and such other records as
may be required by the council. (1988 Code §5.106)
   E.   Seal 1 : The clerk shall be custodian of the city seal and shall affix
its impression on documents whenever this is required. (1988 Code §5.107)
   F.   Documents: The clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging
to the city which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer of the
city by the mayor or council. (1988 Code §5.108)
   G.   Indexes: The clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to all
documents and records kept by the office so that ready access thereto and use
thereof may be had. (1988 Code §5.109)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-11-1 of this title.
1-7-4: ADDITIONAL DUTIES; DEPUTY CLERK:
In addition to the duties herein provided, the clerk shall perform such other
duties and functions as may be required from time to time by statute or
ordinance and may employ a deputy city clerk with all the powers of the city
clerk whose salary is established in the agreement between AFSCME local 3957
and the city of Sycamore. (Ord. 2000.83, 4-16-2001)
CHAPTER 8
CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8-1: Appointment
1-8-2: Bond
1-8-3: Powers And Duties
1-8-4: Deputy Treasurer
1-8-1: APPOINTMENT 1 :
The city treasurer shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent
of the city council. (Ord. 2004.80, 4-18-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-5.
1-8-2: BOND:
The treasurer shall give a bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of
duties and to indemnify the city for any loss due to neglect of duty or
wrongful act on his part, and the amount of such bond shall be not less than
ten percent (10%) of the highest amount of taxes and special assessments
received by the treasurer during any fiscal year in the preceding five (5)
fiscal years nor less than one and one-half (11/2) times the largest amount
which the council estimates will be in custody of the treasurer at any one
time. Such bond shall be filed with the clerk, as required by statutes 1 .
(1988 Code §5.202)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25.
1-8-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The treasurer shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   General Duties: Perform such duties as may be prescribed by statute or
by ordinance and shall receive all monies paid into the city, either directly
from the person paying it or from the hands of such other officer as may
receive it and shall pay out money only on vouchers or orders properly signed
by the city clerk or the mayor. (1988 Code §5.203)
   B.   Deposit Of Funds: Deposit the city funds in such depositories as may be
selected, from time to time, as is provided by law 1  and shall keep the city
money separate and distinct from personal funds and shall not intermingle
personal money with it or make private or personal use of the city funds. (1988
Code §5.204)
   C.   Records: Keep records showing all monies received, the source from
which it was received and the purpose for which it was paid out and shall keep
a record showing at all times the financial status of the city. (1988 Code
§5.205)
   D.   Accounts: Keep such books and accounts as may be required by the city
council and shall keep them in the manner required by the city council.
   E.   Reports: Make monthly reports to the council showing the state of
finances of the city and the amounts received and spent during the month, which
reports shall be filed, and shall make an annual report, prior to September 1,
containing such information as may be required by statute, from time to time.
(1988 Code §5.207)
   F.   Register Of Warrants: Keep a register of all warrants, bonds or orders
filed with him or paid by him and all vouchers, as is required by statute 2 .
(1988 Code §5.208)
   G.   Special Assessments: Collect all payments on special assessments and
shall see to it that the same are properly recorded and credited to the
particular account entitled thereto. (1988 Code §5.209)
 
Notes
1 3. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50.
2 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45.
1-8-4: DEPUTY TREASURER:
   A.   Deputy Treasurer: There is hereby created the office of city deputy
treasurer. The city manager is authorized to appoint a deputy treasurer, who
shall have the power and authority to perform all duties and functions of the
city treasurer as required by state statute, city ordinance, or other
applicable law.
   B.   Signing of Documents: When signing documents, the deputy treasurer
shall sign the name of the city treasurer followed by the word "by" and the
deputy treasurer's own signed name followed by the words "deputy treasurer."
   C.   Exercise of Power and Duties: The powers and duties described herein
shall be exercised by the deputy treasurer only in the absence or
unavailability of the city treasurer. Absence shall be defined, for the purpose
of this section, to mean being physically away from the city during regular
business hours. Unavailability shall be defined, for the purpose of this
section, to mean being physically incapable of attending to the duties for the
treasurer during regular business hours because of other commitments or
incapacity.
   D.   Termination of Powers: The deputy treasurer shall cease to exercise all
the powers of the city treasurer as authorized in this section whenever the
city treasurer shall return to the place where the city treasurer's officer is
maintained for the purpose of assuming the duties of the city treasurer. (Ord.
2022.23, 1-17-2023)
CHAPTER 9
APPOINTIVE CITY OFFICERS
ARTICLE A. CITY ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-9A-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-9A-2: Powers And Duties
1-9A-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the Office of City Engineer, an executive office of the
City. He shall be appointed by the City Manager with the consent of the
Council. (Ord. 2018.21, 4-15-2019)
1-9A-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Streets: Be the advisor of the construction and care of all public
streets and shall render advice on all questions affecting the same.
   B.   Sewers: Be the advisor of sanitary and storm sewer systems of the City
and shall render advice on all questions affecting the same.
   C.   Lighting: Be the advisor of the lighting of the public streets and
alleys and shall render advice on all questions affecting the same.
   D.   Water: Be the advisor of the care, functioning and maintenance of the
City waterworks and water distribution system and render advice on all
questions affecting the same.
   E.   Employees: Be the advisor of all officers or employees assigned to the
care of streets, sewers, lighting or the waterworks system and shall render
advice on all questions affecting the same.
   F.   Property: Be the custodian of all property of the City which is not
assigned to the care or custody of any other officer.
   G.   Maps And Plats: Prepare and maintain maps and plats showing all City
streets and other public places, the location of all Municipal utilities and
the location of all conduits, tunnels or similar structures or equipment on or
under any such place. (Ord. 2018.21, 4-15-2019)
ARTICLE B. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-9B-1: Appointment
1-9B-2: Powers and Duties
1-9B-3: Other Counsel
1-9B-1: APPOINTMENT:
The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Council, may retain an attorney
to act as legal advisor to the City and who shall have the power of a police
officer and conservator of the peace. (1988 Code §6.101)
1-9B-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Suits and Actions: The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and
all suits or actions at law or equity to which the City may be a party or in
which it may be interested or which may be brought against or by any officer of
the City on behalf of the City, or in the capacity of such person as an officer
of the City as provided by law. (1988 Code §6.102)
   B.   Advice: The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City and
shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the City whenever
requested to do so by the Mayor and Council. Upon request by the Mayor and
Council, he shall reduce such opinion to writing. (1988 Code §6.103)
   C.   Additional Duties: it shall be the duty of the City Attorney to draft
or supervise the phraseology of any contracts, leases or other documents or
instructions covering any subjects within the powers of the Municipality. (1988
Code §6.104)
1-9B-3: OTHER COUNSEL:
The Mayor and City Council may retain or authorize the employment of other
counsel to give advice or render service to the City. (1988 Code §6.105)
ARTICLE C. DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
1-9C-1: Director Of Community Development
1-9C-1: DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Appointment: There is hereby created the position of Director of
Community Development who shall be appointed by the City Manager with the
consent of the Council and who shall have the power of a police officer and
conservator of the peace. The position of Director of Community Development
replaces the Director of Building & Engineering. Any references to the former
classification in this Code or Unified Development Ordinance shall be replaced
with the title “Director of Community Development.”
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the Director of Community Development
and any of his/her inspectors to see to the enforcement of all ordinance
provisions relating to buildings or zoning and to inspect all buildings or
structures being erected or altered, as frequently as may be necessary to
ensure compliance with the ordinances of the City.
   C.   Stop Order:
      1.   The Director of Community Development and any of his/her inspectors
shall have the power to order all work stopped on construction or alteration or
repair of buildings in the City when such work is being done in violation of
any provisions of any ordinance relating thereto, or in violation of the Zoning
Ordinance. Work shall not be resumed after the issuance of such an order.
      2.   Any person violating any stop work order by working in violation of
such order by the Director of Community Development or any of his/her
inspectors shall be subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee, Bond & Penalty Schedule for each day on which any work is
done in violation of such stop order; however, only one stop work order need be
delivered as the order shall be deemed to be continuing until rescinded by the
Director of Community Development, any of his/her inspectors, the City Council
or by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   Entry Powers: The Director of Community Development and any of his/her
inspectors shall have the power to make or cause to be made an entry into any
building or premises where the work of altering, repairing or constructing any
building or structure is occurring, for the purpose of making inspections, at
any reasonable hour. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
ARTICLE D. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
SECTION:
1-9D-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-9D-2: Duties
1-9D-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the position of economic development officer who shall
be appointed by the city manager, by and with the advice and consent of the
city council. (1988 Code §6.901; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
1-9D-2: DUTIES:
The economic development officer shall assist the mayor in the planning and
development of the city's economic base, the publicizing of same and in the
application for federal and state grants for economic development for the
purpose of maintaining, revitalizing and attracting sound and stable commercial
growth. (1988 Code §6.902)
ARTICLE E. PUBLIC WORKS OFFICIALS
SECTION:
1-9E-1: Director Of Public Works
1-9E-2: Assistant Public Works Director
1-9E-1: DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:
   A.   Position Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the Office of
Director of Public Works who shall be appointed by the City Manager, with the
consent of the Council, and who shall have the power of a police officer and
conservator of the peace.
   B.   Duties: The Director of Public Works shall have charge and custody of
all physical property of the City related to the care and maintenance of
streets, and the maintenance, repair and operation of the City water plant,
water distribution system, wastewater treatment plant, collection system and
all appurtenances thereto.
   C.   Employees: All employees assigned to the care and maintenance of
streets, the maintenance, repair and operation of the City water plant, water
distribution system, wastewater treatment plant, and collection system shall be
under the supervision and subject to the direction of the Director of Public
Works.
   D.   City Buildings: The Director of Public Works shall have care and
custody of all City owned buildings. (Ord. 2018.21, 4-15-2019)
1-9E-2: ASSISTANT PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
   A.   Powers And Duties: The Assistant Public Works Director shall have and
perform the following powers and duties:
      1.   Active direction and supervision over all foremen, laborers,
mechanics and support staff subject to the supervision of the Director of
Public Works.
      2.   Make recommendations for public works related ordinances and
revisions thereof, public relations, public education and shall assist in
hiring and assignment of personnel. (Ord. 2018.21, 4-15-2019)
ARTICLE F. ORDINANCE OFFICER
SECTION:
1-9F-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-9F-2: Powers And Duties
1-9F-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of ordinance officer who shall be appointed
by the city manager with the consent of the council and who shall have the
power of a police officer and conservator of the peace. (1988 Code §6.401; amd.
Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
1-9F-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Enforcement: The ordinance officer shall be an enforcing officer for
the board of health and shall see to the enforcement of all rules of the board
and shall see to the enforcement of quarantine. He shall give to the council
information and advice concerning the health of the city and shall perform such
other duties as may be assigned to him by the council. (1988 Code §6.402)
   B.   Analysis: It shall be the duty of the ordinance officer to make or
cause to be made analysis of any food or drink alleged to be tainted or
unwholesome and to analyze the drinking water of the city whenever requested to
do so by the council. (1988 Code §6.403)
   C.   Inspections: The ordinance officer shall assist in the enforcement of
all ordinances relating to the sale or storage of food and drink intended for
human consumption and shall make or cause to be made such tests and analyses
and inspections as may be necessary for this purpose. (1988 Code §6.404)
ARTICLE G. CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-9G-1: Office Created
1-9G-2: Qualifications
1-9G-3: Appointment And Relationship To Elected Officials
1-9G-4: Compensation And Terms Of Appointment
1-9G-5: Removal Of The Manager From Office
1-9G-6: Powers And Duties
1-9G-7: Bond
1-9G-8: Authority Of Other Officers
1-9G-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The office of city manager is hereby created subject to the provisions of this
article. (Ord. 98.25, 6-22-1998; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
1-9G-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   The city manager shall be chosen by the mayor and city council solely
on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications with special
reference to specific professional education for, actual experience in, and
knowledge of, accepted practice in respect to the administration of local
government and to the duties of the office as specified below. (Ord. 98.25, 6-
22-1998; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
   B.   The appointment shall be made without consideration of the candidate's
race, sex, politics, or religious beliefs.
   C.   The person appointed to this office need not be a resident of the city
or of the state at the time of appointment.
   D.   Neither the mayor nor any member of the city council shall receive such
appointment during their terms of office or within two (2) years after the
expiration of that term. (Ord. 98.25, 6-22-1998)
1-9G-3: APPOINTMENT AND RELATIONSHIP TO ELECTED OFFICIALS:
The city manager shall be appointed to an indefinite term of office by a
majority vote of the city council. The manager shall, in all cases, be subject
to the authority and direction of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 98.25, 6-
22-1998; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
1-9G-4: COMPENSATION AND TERMS OF APPOINTMENT:
The rate of compensation of the city manager shall be set by the city council
and may be adjusted from time to time as the council deems appropriate. Subject
to the terms and conditions of state law and this article, the city council and
the manager shall enter into an employment contract which specifies in writing
the level of compensation of the manager, fringe benefits including levels of
support for the manager's continuing professional education, agreements for
separation pay upon termination of the manager's employment, other appropriate
agreements describing the working relationship between the manager and elected
officials, and council's performance expectations for the manager. This
agreement should be reviewed and revised by mutual agreement of the parties at
periodic intervals of no more than one year's duration. (Ord. 98.25, 6-22-1998;
amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
1-9G-5: REMOVAL OF THE MANAGER FROM OFFICE:
The city manager shall be subject at all times to removal from office by a
majority vote of the total membership of the city council. (Ord. 98.25, 6-22-
1998; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
1-9G-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city manager shall be the chief executive and operating officer of the city
and shall be responsible to the mayor and city council for the proper
administration of all affairs of the city. In discharging this responsibility,
the city manager shall:
   A.   Direct, supervise, and coordinate the administration of all
departments, offices, and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by
law;
   B.   Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the service, suspend or
remove all city employees and appointive administrative officers except when
otherwise provided for by law. All appointments and removals shall be based
solely upon merit and on the qualifications or disqualifications of the
individuals involved, without regard to race, sex, religious convictions, or
political belief or affiliation. The city manager may authorize any
administrative officer, subject to the manager's direction and supervision, to
exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that officer's
department, office or agency;
   C.   Attend all city council meetings. The city manager shall have the right
to take part in all discussions, but shall not vote;
   D.   Provide for the enforcement of all laws and ordinances within the city;
   E.   Serve as city budget officer and prepare and submit to the city council
by the date set by the council a recommended annual budget for city operations
and a recommended capital program. When the annual budget or capital program
have been approved by the city council, the city manager shall be responsible
for the administration of said budget or capital program;
   F.   Submit to the city council and make available to the public a complete
report on the finances and administrative activities of the city as of the end
of each fiscal year;
   G.   Serve as chief planning and development officer;
   H.   Make such other reports as the city council may require concerning the
operations of city departments, offices, and agencies;
   I.   Keep the city council fully advised as to the present financial
condition and future needs of the city;
   J.   Advise the city council on pending decisions of public policy and
recommend to the council the adoption of such measures as the manager may deem
necessary or expedient for the health, safety, or welfare of the community or
for the improvement of administrative services;
   K.   Be responsible for procurement of commodities and services for all city
departments, offices, and agencies, and promulgate purchasing rules which shall
be followed by employees in the procurement of goods and services;
   L.   Propose to the city council such personnel rules and regulations as the
manager deems necessary to manage the personnel policies of the city;
   M.   Be responsible for the conduct of all collective bargaining processes
of the city, and recommend to the city council collective bargaining agreements
for consideration and possible final approval by the council. The city manager
shall be responsible for administering all employee organization contracts
reached through the collective bargaining process;
   N.   Provide staff support services for the mayor and members of the city
council;
   O.   Perform such other duties as may be specified by law or city ordinance
or as may from time to time be requested by the city council. (Ord. 2002.95, 4-
21-2003)
1-9G-7: BOND:
The city manager shall furnish a surety bond in the amount of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) to be approved by the city council. The bond shall be
conditioned on the faithful performance of the duties of the office. The
premium for the bond shall be paid by the city. (Ord. 98.25, 6-22-1998; amd.
Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
1-9G-8: AUTHORITY OF OTHER OFFICERS:
Nothing in this article shall be deemed to diminish or detract from the
statutory powers and authority of the city's elected officials. (Ord. 98.25, 6-
22-1998)
ARTICLE H. DIRECTOR OF HUMAN AND ADMINISTRATIVE RESOURCES
SECTION:
1-9H-1: Office Created
1-9H-2: Qualifications
1-9H-3: Appointment
1-9H-4: Duties
1-9H-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is created the Office of Director of Human and Administrative Resources,
an executive officer of the City. (Ord. 2018.21, 4-15-2019)
1-9H-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university required in human
resources or a related field. At least three (3) years of supervisory
experience in the human resources field. (Ord. 2018.21, 4-15-2019)
1-9H-3: APPOINTMENT:
The Director of Human and Administrative Resources shall be appointed by the
City Manager and the City Council, as provided by statute, on the
recommendation of the City Manager. The Director of Human and Administrative
Resources shall be subject to the authority and direction of the City Manager
and may be terminated by the City Manager. (Ord. 2018.21, 4-15-2019)
1-9H-4: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Director of Human and Administrative Resources to
administer all aspects of the City's benefits program; to administer the City's
State mandated workers' compensation program; to update and promulgate
organizational personnel policies; to provide leadership for departmental
searches for employees to fill job positions; to maintain all personnel files
and related records in a confidential manner; to create and coordinate wellness
programs; to oversee employee assistance programs; to act as trainer and
technical advisor regarding management and employee services; to serve as an
administrative liaison on City projects as needed, to advance and promote an
organization that meets current and future needs; to perform special projects
as assigned by the City Manager; and, to perform such other duties as may be
requested from time to time by the City Manager and the City Council. (Ord.
2018.21, 4-15-2019)
ARTICLE I. PLAT OFFICER
SECTION:
1-9I-1: Office Created
1-9I-2: Appointment
1-9I-3: Duties
1-9I-4: Fees
1-9I-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is created the office of city plat officer, an executive officer of the
city. (Ord. 2002.21, 7-15-2002)
1-9I-2: APPOINTMENT:
The authority of city plat officer shall be borne by the city engineer or other
executive officer of the city and such authority shall be assigned by the city
manager with the consent of the city council. In his role as plat officer, such
executive officer shall be subject to the authority and direction of the city
manager and such authority may be terminated by the city manager at will. (Ord.
2002.21, 7-15-2002; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
1-9I-3: DUTIES:
The plat officer shall have the authority to approve, in accordance with
sections 8.02.10 and 8.03.10 of the revised zoning ordinance of the city of
Sycamore, plats that legally subdivide existing lots of record for the purpose
of dividing duplexes and attached single-family dwellings or townhouses into
separate lots that can be transferred in fee simple, without review by the plan
commission and the city council. All such resubdivision plats that allow common
wall construction shall be accompanied by a common wall agreement with a
declaration of cross easements for common maintenance and access, and such
common wall agreement shall be recorded simultaneously with the resubdivision
plat. Prior to the approval by the plat officer of any resubdivision plat to
allow common wall construction, a special use permit shall be granted by the
city council as per the requirements of sections 8.02.10 and 8.03.10 of the
revised zoning ordinance. In addition, the plat officer shall have the
authority to approve other resubdivision plats and plats of survey that are
prepared by an Illinois licensed land surveyor for the sale or exchange of
parcels of land between owners of adjoining and contiguous land in a recorded
subdivision not involving any new streets or easements provided that the
division of said lots conform in all respects to the revised zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 2002.21, 7-15-2002)
1-9I-4: FEES:
The fee for the review of any resubdivision plat or plat of survey by the plat
officer shall be found in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord.
2002.21, 7-15-2002; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 10
PERSONNEL RULES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Appointments
1-10-2: Oath And Bond
1-10-3: Residency Requirements
1-10-4: Terms Of Office; Vacancies
1-10-5: Assignment Of Powers And Duties
1-10-6: Records
1-10-7: Monies Received
1-10-8: Conservators Of The Peace
1-10-9: Salaries And Additional Compensation
1-10-10: Sick Leave And Vacation Pay
1-10-11: Legal Holidays
1-10-12: Termination Of Office
1-10-13: Retirement
1-10-14: Unlawful Impersonation
1-10-15: Establishing A Drug Free Workplace
1-10-16: Group Insurance
1-10-17: Effective Date
1-10-1: APPOINTMENTS:
The Mayor, on behalf of the City Council, confirms that the following positions
are established as authorized non-elective positions of the City of Sycamore:
Full Time Equivalent Department
Full Time Equivalent Department
                    City Administration
1.0                  City Manager
1.0                  Assistant City Manager
0.0                  Director of Human and Administrative Resources
1.0                  Director of Finance
1.0                  City Treasurer
1.0                  Assistant City Treasurer
1.7                  Accounts Clerks
1.0                  Administrative Secretary
0.0                  MPA Intern
                     
                    Mayor and City Council
4.5                  Mayor and City Council
Retainer Contract    City Attorney
                    City Clerk
1.0                  City Clerk
0.5                  Part-time Clerk
                     
                    Community Development
1.0                  Director
2.0                  Building Inspector
1.0                  Secretary
0.6                  Community Services Officer
                     
                    Fire Department
1.0                  Fire Chief
2.0                  Deputy Fire Chiefs
7.0                  Fire Lieutenants
20.0                 Firefighters
1.0                  Secretary
8.0                  Paid On-Call Firefighters
                     
                    Police Department
1.0                  Police Chief
2.0                  Deputy Chiefs
6.0                  Police Sergeants
3.0                  Police Investigators
2.0                  School Resource Officers
17                   Police Patrol Officers
2.0                  Secretary
1.0                  Community Service Officer
1.0                  Parking Officers (Part-Time)
5.0                  Crossing Guards (Part-Time)
1.0                  Police Auxiliary (Part-Time)
                     
                    Public Works
1.0                  Public Works Director
2.0                  Assistant P.W. Directors
4.0                  Foreman
1.0                  Mechanic
16.0                 Laborers
1.0                  Staff Engineer
1.0                  Billing Coordinator
1.0                  Custodian
0.5                  Part-Time Seasonal Help
 
When a vacancy occurs in any of the above enumerated positions, the position
can be filled through normal city policy. In addition to the positions outlined
above, temporary positions including seasonal labor and interns, paid or
unpaid, can be added at the discretion of the City Manager. (Ord. 2018.19, 4-
15-2019; amd. Ord. 2019.54, 4-20-20; Ord. 2020.30, 4-19-2021; Ord. 2021.11, 8-
16-2021)
1-10-2: OATH AND BOND:
   A.   Oath: Every officer of the City shall, before entering upon his duties,
take the oath prescribed by law 1 . (1988 Code §8.106)
   B.   Bond: Every officer of the City shall, if required by the Council,
before entering upon the duties of his office, give a bond in such amount as
may be determined by the Council and with such sureties as it may approve,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his office or
position. (1988 Code §8.107)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30.
1-10-3: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS 2 :
All employees shall reside and maintain their domicile consistent with the
applicable provisions of the City of Sycamore Employee Handbook. (Ord. 2011.48,
4-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2022.01, 5-16-2022)
 
Notes
2 2. See subsection
  1-9G-2C of this title for City Manager exception.
1-10-4: TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
Every appointive officer of the City shall hold office until May 1 next
following or until his successor is appointed and qualified unless it is
otherwise provided by law or ordinance. Employees selected shall serve so long
as their services are desired. (1988 Code §8.102)
1-10-5: ASSIGNMENT OF POWERS AND DUTIES:
The City Manager shall have the power to assign to any appointive office any
duty which is not assigned by ordinance to some other specific office and shall
determine disputes or questions relating to the respective powers or duties of
officers unless otherwise specifically provided by collective bargaining
agreements. (1988 Code §8.103; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
1-10-6: RECORDS:
All records kept by any office of the City shall be open to inspection by the
Mayor or any member of the Council at all reasonable times, whether or not such
records are required to be kept by statute or ordinance. (1988 Code §8.104)
1-10-7: MONIES RECEIVED:
Every officer of the City shall, at least once every day, turn over all monies
received by him in his official capacity to the Financial Officer with a
statement which shows the source from which the same was received. (Ord.
2001.83, 4-15-2002)
1-10-8: CONSERVATORS OF THE PEACE:
The Mayor, members of the City Council, the City Manager, the members of the
Fire Department, the Building Commissioner/Zoning Officer, City Engineer, City
Attorney, Superintendent of Public Works and Superintendent of Water, as well
as members of the Police Department, are hereby declared to be conservators of
the peace with such powers to make arrests as are given to the conservators of
the peace by statute. (Ord. 2001.83, 4-15-2002; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
1-10-9: SALARIES AND ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION:
   A.   Base Pay for Certain Management Appointments: The following table
depicts the annualized salaries for the offices and positions herein set forth
and shall be paid biweekly except where otherwise specified in this chapter.
OFFICES May 1, 2021 through April 30, 2022
Title   FY22 Range
OFFICES                                    May 1, 2021 through April 30, 2022
Title                                      FY22 Range
City Manager                               $127,657 to $145,106
Assistant City Manager                      
Fire Chief                                 $113,979 to $129,560
Police Chief
Director of Public Works                   $109,506 to $124,572
Director of Finance                         
Director of Community Development          $101,767 to $115,678
Deputy Chief
Assistant Public Works Director Operations
Assistant Public Works Director/City        
Engineer                                   $97,773 to $111,226
Director of Human and Administrative
Resources
City Treasurer                             $78,874 to $87,538
Assistant City Treasurer                    
Staff Engineer                             $60,500 to $68,255
Human Resources Generalist
Executive Secretary                        $46,000 to $53,500
 
   B.   Salary Ranges: Management employees shall move to the next step in
their respective range based on merit. The City Manager has the authority to
determine the compensation of new employees within these classifications.
   C.    Management Hours of Work: The minimum workweek for management
employees shall typically be forty (40) hours.
   D.    Overtime: Management employees shall not receive overtime
compensation.
   E.    Flexible Time: All management employees shall maintain and submit
accurate records of all hours worked on the employee’s time sheet. “Flex time”
is accumulated at the rate of one hour for every hour worked over forty (40)
hours in a regular workweek and shall be submitted to the finance division
where an accurate accounting of such hours used and accumulated shall be
maintained. Management employees listed in subsection A of this section, at the
discretion of the City Manager or designee, shall be allowed to accumulate up
to one hundred twenty (120) hours of flexible time each fiscal year. A total of
one hundred twenty (120) hours of flexible time may be carried forward from
year to year. An employee may not use more than one hundred twenty (120) hours
in a fiscal year, or portion thereof. Any employee appointed after May 1, 2017,
cannot “cash in” flexible time, nor can he/she receive compensation for any
unused accumulated flexible time upon separation. At the time of separation
from city employment, management employees appointed on or before April 30,
2017, shall be compensated for accrued flexible time up to a maximum of one
hundred twenty (120) hours.
   F.   Education and Certification Incentives, Educational Leave and Tuition
Reimbursement: This policy shall apply equally and without favoritism. The city
encourages employees to take an active interest in developing job-related
skills and abilities.
      1.   Education and Certification Incentives: Any full-time employee who
successfully obtains the following degrees from an accredited two (2) year or
four (4) year institution of higher education will receive the following:
         a.   Associate’s Degree:            $1,200 per year
         b.   Bachelor’s Degree:            $1,800 per year
         c.   Master’s Degree:            $2,400 per year
Any full-time employee that obtains the following professional certifications
will receive the following:
         a.   Class I Wastewater Certification:      $1,500 per year
         b.   Class A Water Certification:      $1,500 per year
No “pyramiding” of incentives is acceptable. Once an employee attains a certain
level of education or certification that employee is paid only one bonus for
the highest level of certification that has been attained, provided it is
applicable to his/her position.
      2.   Educational Leave: Employees may be granted time off with pay for
educational purposes with the approval of the City Manager or designee.
Educational leave is to be used to attend approved classes that are only
offered at times that conflict with normal business hours. Examples may
include, but are not limited to, the following: conferences, seminars, briefing
sessions, or other functions that may improve or sustain an employee’s
certifications and professional abilities.
      3.   Tuition Reimbursement: With the prior approval of the City Manager
and department head, employees may be reimbursed for tuition and applicable lab
fees as they pursue college credits at an accredited two-year or four-year
college or university. Reimbursement shall occur for one course per each
academic period after verification of a grade of “C” or better. Documentation
is required to verify expenses.
All education incentives will be paid based on the highest level obtained prior
to the end of the calendar year for the upcoming fiscal year.
   G.   Career Service Bonus: A “Career Service Bonus” shall be paid to full-
time employees who have reached the eligible threshold as follows:
      1.   On completion of five years of full-time continuous service, the
employee shall receive an annual bonus of $300.00.
      2.   On completion of ten years of full-time continuous service, the
employee shall receive an annual bonus of $600.00.
      3.   On completion of fifteen years of full-time continuous service, the
employee shall receive an annual bonus of $900.00.
      4.   On completion of twenty years of full-time continuous service, the
employee shall receive an annual bonus of $1,200.00.
      5.   On completion of twenty-five of full-time continuous service, the
employee shall receive an annual bonus of $1,500.00.
      6.   On completion of thirty years of full-time continuous service, the
employee shall receive an annual bonus of $1,800.00.
In a fiscal year in which the employee attains a new five-year threshold for
service, he/she shall advance to the new bonus level pro-rated in his/her bi-
weekly paycheck effective May 1.
   H.   New Appointees: If any appointment is made during the term of this
chapter, the compensation of the new appointee shall be determined by the Mayor
and City Council, upon the recommendation of the City Manager. New employees
with less than one year of service to the city may be compensated at a wage
less than the schedule set forth above.
   I.   Volunteer Firemen: Paid-On-Call (POC) firefighters shall each be paid
two hundred dollars ($200.00) and the POC EMT firefighters shall be paid an
additional two hundred dollars ($200.00) per annum, payable semi-annually on
April 30 and October 30 of each year, provided they work a minimum of forty-
hours in the preceding six month period, or a proportionate part thereof in the
event that less than one year’s full service is rendered. For actual responses
to each fire alarm, the sum of fifteen dollars and ninety cents ($15.90) per
hour shall be paid to each POC member, and in addition thereto the sum of
fifteen dollars and ninety cents ($15.90) for each hour or fraction thereof
after the first hour.
   J.   Crossing Guards: Crossing Guards shall be paid at the rate of fifteen
dollars and ninety-four cents ($15.94) per hour.
   K.   Secretary to The Sycamore Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals:
The City Clerk shall serve as the secretary to the plan commission and the
board of zoning appeals for no additional compensation.
   L.   Exempt Part-Time Employees: The compensation to be paid all extra or
exempt part-time employees not otherwise covered by a collective bargaining
contract shall be determined by the City Manager.
   M.   Volunteer Police: Volunteer policemen shall be appointed by the City
Manager, upon the recommendation of the Police Chief, and shall be paid sixteen
dollars and thirty cents ($16.30) for each hour worked. (Ord. 2018.20, 4-15-
2019; amd. Ord. 2019.55, 4-20-2020; Ord. 2020.31, 4-19-2021; Ord. 2021.12, 8-
16-2021)
1-10-10: SICK LEAVE AND VACATION PAY:
The basis governing the paying of employees during sickness and vacation shall
be governed by the following regulations unless otherwise provided by
collective bargaining agreements:
   A.   Seniority: The amount of benefits shall be based on seniority. The
following rules will be in effect: A workweek shall consist of the number of
days' service that is being rendered for the compensation received. The Mayor,
from time to time, will determine what will constitute a workweek as to hours
and days worked and paid for in calculating vacation days and sick leave due
and payable. (1988 Code §8.112)
   B.   Paid Leave and Sick Leave:
      1.   Sick Leave Accrual: Sick leave amounting to nine (9) days per year
shall be allowed and permitted to accumulate from one fiscal year to the next
until a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) days or nine hundred sixty (960)
hours of unused leave has been accumulated.
If an employee exhausts all benefit time and has not returned to work, the
employee will not continue to accrue sick time until he/she returns to work.
An employee hired prior to May 1, 2017, shall receive one hour’s pay for each
unused hour of sick leave that is accumulated according to this subsection up
to a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) days upon retirement.
An employee hired after May 1, 2017, shall receive pay as specified below for
the balance of unused sick leave that is accumulated according to this
subsection up to a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) days upon retirement.
         a.   Date of hire through five (5) years of continuous service: 10% of
unused sick leave balance.
         b.   Beginning year six (6) through ten (10) years continuous service:
20% of unused sick leave balance.
         c.   Beginning year ten (10) through fifteen (15) years continuous
service: 30% of unused sick leave balance.
         d.   Beginning year fifteen (15) through twenty (20) years continuous
service: 40% of unused sick leave balance.
         e.   Beginning year twenty (20) of continuous service and thereafter:
50% of unused sick leave balance.
      2.   Death In The Family: Paid leave of three (3) days will be allowed in
the case of death within the “immediate family” of a city employee (defined as
a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, father-in-law, mother-
in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, or grandchild) with the approval of the
department head.
   C.   Vacations: All full-time city employees shall be entitled to vacations
based on the number of continuous complete years employed by the city to be
computed as of the employee’s anniversary date of hire. For purposes of this
section, employees shall receive the following, based on a seven (7) day
calendar week, regardless of work schedule, starting any day of the week:
      1.   Date of hire through eight (8) years of continuous service: Two (2)
weeks.
      2.   Beginning year nine (9) through fifteen (15) years continuous
service: Three (3) weeks.
      3.   Beginning year sixteen (16) through twenty (20) years of continuous
service: Four (4) weeks.
      4.   Beginning year twenty-one (21) through twenty-five (25) years of
continuous service: Five (5) weeks.
      5.   Beginning year twenty-six (26) and thereafter: Six (6) weeks.
Employees in subsection C.1. of this section shall receive two (2) additional
days; in subsection C.2. of this section, three (3) additional days; in
subsection C.3. of this section, four (4) additional days; in subsection C.4.
of this section, five (5) additional days; and in subsection C.5. of this
section, six (6) additional days, to be taken when requested by reasonable
notice, but at such times as approved by the department head and City Manager.
Upon hire, department heads and directors may receive one week of vacation in
addition to that specified above at the discretion of the City Manager. Other
positions previously approved or offered as a condition of employment will
continue to receive the additional week for the tenure of the current employee
holding that position.
All personnel shall be entitled to no more than two (2) vacation periods during
a fiscal year. When an employee is entitled to three (3) or more weeks of
vacation, he or she has the option of receiving one week’s pay in lieu of one
week’s vacation. Without prior consent from the City Manager, managers should
not schedule vacation as to overlap with another manager in the same
department. Additionally, any vacation longer than five (5) business days,
needs city manager approval in advance.
Upon retirement or resignation in good standing, vacation time shall be
prorated for the current year. (Ord. 2018.20, 4-15-2019; amd. Ord. 2019.55, 4-
20-2020; Ord. 2020.31, 4-19-2021; Ord. 2021.12, 8-16-2021)
1-10-11: LEGAL HOLIDAYS:
   A.   Holidays: Legal holidays for management and exempt personnel are as
follows:
New Year’s Day
Martin Luther King, Jr.’s Birthday
Good Friday
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Thanksgiving Day
Friday after Thanksgiving
Christmas Eve Day (last ½ of workday)
Christmas Day
Floating Holiday
   B.   Floating Holidays: Floating holidays may be birthdays or another day,
with the approval of the department head. When a birthday falls on a Saturday,
Sunday or holiday (assuming they are not regular work days), the employee may
have the next day off. If two (2) employees from the same department have
birthdays that fall on the same day, only one employee may take the day off.
Who shall have the day off will be determined by chance. The other employee
shall take the next day off or another day that meets with the approval of the
department head. (Ord. 2018.20, 4-15-2019; amd. Ord. 2019.55, 4-20-2020; Ord.
2020.31, 4-19-2021; Ord. 2021.12, 8-16-2021)
1-10-12: TERMINATION OF OFFICE:
Every officer of the City, upon the termination of his office for any cause
whatsoever, shall deliver to his successor all books and records which may be
the property of the City, and if no successor has been appointed within one
week after the termination of office, such property shall be delivered either
to the Clerk or to the Treasurer. (1988 Code §8.110)
1-10-13: RETIREMENT:
All City employees, upon reaching the age of sixty five (65) years, may
voluntarily retire the first month following their sixty fifth birthday. All
employees who have reached age sixty five (65) and wish to continue in the
employment of the City must pass a physical examination by a physician selected
by the City Manager and City Council, such examination shall be at least thirty
(30) days prior to each successive birthday, age sixty five (65) or thereafter.
In the event that any employee should fail to pass an examination as provided
herein, it will be compulsory for him to retire. (1988 Code §8.113; amd. Ord.
2002.95, 4-21-2003)
1-10-14: UNLAWFUL IMPERSONATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate, without lawful authority,
any City officer or employee. Any person violating this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule. (1988 Code § 8.111; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
1-10-15: ESTABLISHING A DRUG FREE WORKPLACE:
   A.   Intent And Policy: The City is committed to the safety and well being
of its employees and the public; and accordingly, it is the employer's intent
to maintain a work environment which is free from drug use and unlawful
possession of controlled substances on Municipal premises.
   B.   Procedures And Regulations:
      1.   Employees are expected to report to work on time and in appropriate
mental and physical condition for work. Employees are not to report to work
under the influence of intoxicants (alcoholic beverages or illegal drugs) and
shall not consume, use or possess intoxicants at any time during their
scheduled workday, on City property, or in any City vehicle (while traveling to
or from City property while on duty). The unlawful manufacture, distribution,
dispensation, possession, or use of a controlled substance on Municipal
premises or while conducting City business off premises is absolutely
prohibited. Violations of this policy will result in disciplinary action, up to
and including termination, and may have legal consequences.
      2.   If a supervisor has reasonable cause to believe that an employee has
reported to work under the influence of intoxicants, the supervisor, with the
approval of the department Commissioner, has the right to request the employee
submit to an alcohol or drug screening test and shall be grounds for discipline
which may include termination. The results of the alcohol or drug test shall
not be used by the City for any purpose other than to determine adherence to
Municipal policy, to discipline an employee whenever necessary, and to comply
with applicable terms of this section.
      3.   The City recognizes drug dependency as a major problem. The City
also recognizes drug abuse as a potential health, safety, and security problem.
Employees needing help in dealing with such problems are encouraged to seek
help. Conscientious efforts to seek such help will not jeopardize any
employee's job and will not be noted in any personnel record except where
action follows a supervisory initiated referral.
      4.   No employee shall be subject to discipline for the appropriate use
of legal nonprescription or prescribed legal drugs for the treatment of illness
or injury. However, if the employee knows or should know that use of a
nonprescription or prescribed drug does or could impair the employee's ability
to operate his or her job duties, the employee shall share this information
with his or her immediate supervisor. Violation of this section of the policy
may subject the employee to disciplinary action.
      5.   Employees must, as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this policy and report any conviction under a criminal drug statute for
violations occurring on or off City premises while conducting City business. A
report of a conviction must be made within five (5) days after the conviction
to the department Director. Within ten (10) days of learning of an employee's
criminal conviction for illegal drug activity within the workplace, the City
will notify the Federal government of such conviction. Within thirty (30) days
of learning of an employee's criminal conviction for illegal drug activity
within the workplace, the City will take the appropriate personnel action.
(Ord. 93.46, 11-15-1993)
1-10-16: GROUP INSURANCE:
   A.   The Employer shall pay the premium minus $100.00 with a $250.00 to
$300.00 deductible per person for the employee and Employer shall pay 85% of
the cost of the premium with a $600.00 to $750.00 deductible per family federal
law, if insured, for the City-sponsored health insurance plan. The employee
shall pay $100.00 over 26 pay periods towards individual coverage with a total
not to exceed 15% of the cost of the premium with a $600.00 to $750.00
deductible per family.
      1.   Retired city employees, after twenty (20) years of service and if
hired prior to May 1, 1982, shall receive full city insurance benefits at the
city’s expense. In the event of the death of any employee within the foregoing
time periods, this subsection shall be construed to give the surviving spouse
continuing insurance with the premiums paid by the city until his/her death or
remarriage, as the case may be. Employees hired after May 1, 1982 and before
May 1, 1986, after twenty (20) years of service and having reached the age of
65, shall receive full city insurance benefits at the city’s expense. If the
employee has not served said twenty (20) years, said coverage shall be
available, but only at said employee’s expense. In all cases, it is the
responsibility of the retired employee and his/her spouse to enroll in
Medicare, at his/her own expense.
      2.   If a “retiree” (after 20 years of employment) should find a job with
another company and become covered by insurance through that company, the city
shall automatically drop that person from the city’s retiree health insurance
plan.
      3.   Retiring employees hired after May 1, 1986, and all employees not
covered above shall be entitled to that coverage provided by federal or state
law, if any.
   B.   Any employee who elects not to be covered by the city group health
insurance, dental and vision coverages will be provided an annual stipend of
one-thousand seven hundred fifty dollars ($1,750) to be paid to that employee
prorated in his/her bi-weekly pay.
   C.   The employer shall provide twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) in
life insurance coverage to each full-time employee under the age of sixty-five
(65), and will provide fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in life insurance
coverage to each retiree with twenty (20) years of service hired prior to May
1, 1982. (Ord. 2018.20, 4-15-2019; amd. Ord. 2019.55, 4-20-2020; Ord. 2020.31,
4-19-2021; Ord. 2021.12, 8-16-2021)
1-10-17: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The salaries hereinabove fixed for the employees of the City of Sycamore,
DeKalb County, Illinois are effective as of the first pay period in the month
of May 2019 and shall continue from month to month and be subject at all times
to change by the City Council of the City of Sycamore, Illinois. (Ord. 2018.20,
4-15-2019)
CHAPTER 11
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Corporate Seal
1-11-2: Wards
1-11-3: Competitive Bidding Procedure
1-11-4: General Purchasing Guidelines
1-11-5: Method Of Accounting
1-11-6: Budget And Appropriation
1-11-7: State Gift Ban Act
1-11-8: Authorized Signatures
1-11-9: Interfund Loans
1-11-10: Hearing Procedures
1-11-11: Responsible Bidder Policy
1-11-12: Debtors Of The City Of Sycamore Policy
1-11-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
The city seal shall be circular in form with the words "City of Sycamore,
Illinois" around the outer edge and in the interior the figures "1858" and a
device representing a sheaf of grain shall be and is hereby established and
declared to be the common and corporate seal of the city. (1988 Code §2.113)
1-11-2: WARDS:
   A.   Wards Established: Pursuant to statute in such case made and provided,
the city be and the same is hereby divided into four (4) wards, which
boundaries are as follows:
   Ward one:
All that property lying within the corporate limits of the city of Sycamore,
Dekalb County, Illinois, lying southerly of the northerly line of Landahl North
phase one and Landahl North phase four, and lying northerly of Becker Place and
its easterly extension and lying easterly of the following described line:
Beginning at the intersection of said northerly line of Landahl North phase one
extend west of Main Street (Illinois Route 23); thence southerly, along said
Main Street to State Street; thence westerly, along State Street to Somonauk
Street; thence southerly, along Somonauk Street to Lincoln Street; thence
easterly, along Lincoln Street to Locust Street; thence southerly, along Locust
Street to Turner Place; thence easterly, along Turner Place to Bailey Road;
thence southerly, along Bailey Road to said Becker Place.
Ward two:
All that property lying within the corporate limits of the city of Sycamore,
Dekalb County, Illinois, lying northerly of State Street, excepting therefrom
that portion lying easterly of Main Street (Illinois Route 23) and southerly of
the northerly line of Landahl North phase one and the northerly line of Landahl
North phase four.
Ward three:
All that property lying within the corporate limits of the city of Sycamore,
Dekalb County, Illinois lying southerly of State Street and westerly of the
following described line: Beginning at the intersection of said State Street
with Sacramento Street; thence southerly, along Sacramento Street to Dekalb
Avenue; thence southwesterly, along Dekalb Avenue to Fox Pointe Drive; thence
southerly, along Fox Pointe Drive to Vaughn Court; thence easterly, along
Vaughn Court to Meadow Lane; thence southerly, along Meadow Lane to Borden
Avenue; thence easterly, along Borden Avenue to Prairie Drive; thence
southerly, along Prairie Drive to Aster Road; thence southerly, along Aster
Road to Bethany Road for the terminus point of said line.
Ward four:
All that property lying within the corporate limits of the city of Sycamore,
Dekalb County, Illinois, described as follows: Beginning at the intersection of
State Street with Sacramento Street; thence southerly, along Sacramento Street
to Dekalb Avenue; thence southwesterly, along Dekalb Avenue to Fox Pointe
Drive; thence southerly, along Fox Pointe Drive to Vaughn Court; thence
easterly, along Vaughn Court to Meadow Lane; thence southerly, along Meadow
Lane to Borden Avenue; thence easterly, along Borden Avenue to Prairie Drive;
thence southerly, along Prairie Drive to Aster Road; thence southerly, along
Aster Road to Bethany Road; thence easterly, along Bethany Road to the westerly
line of Somerset Farms; thence southerly, along said westerly line to the
southerly line of said Somerset Farms; thence easterly, along said southerly
line and its easterly extension to Somonauk Road; thence northerly on Somonauk
Road to Bethany Road; thence easterly on Bethany Road to the easterly line of
Reston Ponds unit one; thence northerly on said easterly line to the southerly
line of Reston Ponds unit two; thence easterly on said southerly line to the
westerly line of Krpans Parkside Estates unit two; thence southerly, along said
westerly line to Bethany Road; thence easterly and northerly along the
corporate limits of said city of Sycamore, to the easterly extension of Becker
Place; thence westerly, along said easterly extension and said Becker Place to
Bailey Road; thence northerly, along Bailey Road to Turner Place; thence
westerly, along Turner Place to Locust Street; thence northerly, along Locust
Street to Lincoln Street; thence westerly, along Lincoln Street to Somonauk
Street; thence northerly, along Somonauk Street to State Street; thence
westerly along State Street to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 2011.11, 7-18-2011)
   B.   Ward Map; Annexations: The ward boundaries as above described are also
specifically outlined on a ward map of the city. At any time new territory is
annexed to the city, the ward boundary, as described above, shall be
automatically extended directly outward from the city in a north, south, east
or west direction at the point where any two (2) of the above wards coincides
with the city limits. (1988 Code §4.101)
1-11-3: COMPETITIVE BIDDING PROCEDURE:
   A.   To the extent not prohibited by state statute, it shall be the policy
of the city to procure goods and services from qualified local bidders to the
greatest extent possible. In order to be considered a qualified local bidder, a
business must meet each of the following criteria:
      1.   Located within limits of the county.
      2.   Employs year round staff located at the business within the county.
      3.   Is current with property tax payments, sales tax, water billing and
other utility tax payments to the city.
      4.   Does not have any outstanding cited code violations.
      5.   Is not receiving any incentives or subsidies from the city.
      6.   Has adequately qualified/trained staff to service the bid item.
   B.   If the lowest responsible bidder is not a qualified local bidder and if
a qualified local bidder has submitted a bid which is within the applicable
percentage (as hereinafter set forth) of the lowest responsible bidder for an
item or bid the qualified local bidder shall be given written notice by the
city to that effect and shall, within ten (10) days from the date of such
notice, provide written confirmation to the city that it will match the bid
price of the lowest responsible bidder. Should a qualified local bidder fail to
provide such confirmation within the time allowed its bid shall be considered
as originally submitted.
   C.   When more than one qualified local bidder is within the applicable
percentage of the lowest responsible bidder, only the qualified local bidder
submitting the lowest local bid shall be given the opportunity to match the bid
of the lowest responsible bidder. It shall, where the bid is an aggregate of
separate price components, reduce the price of each subcomponent of its
aggregate bid by the same percentage that was used to match the bid of the
lowest responsible bidder.
   D.   The applicable percentage is set forth on the table below:
 
Amount Of Bid                  Preference Provision
Up to $499,999.00              5 percent
$500,000.00 to $749,999.00     4 percent
$750,000.00 to $999,999.00     3 percent
$1,000,000.00 to $1,249,999.00 2 percent
$1,250,000.00 to $1,499,999.00 1 percent
Over $1.5 million              No preference consideration
 
   E.   The city may reject any and all bids and award the contract to someone
other than the lowest responsible bidder or a qualified local bidder who
matches the lowest responsible bid upon a two- thirds (2/3) vote of the city
council members then holding office. (Ord. 2008.03, 5-19-2008)
1-11-4: GENERAL PURCHASING GUIDELINES:
The "general purchasing guidelines" shall be approved as the official
purchasing policy of the city. (Ord. 98.23, 7-6-1998)
1-11-5: METHOD OF ACCOUNTING:
The city shall use the modified accrual method of accounting, as that term is
defined in generally accepted governmental accounting procedures, for fiscal
year 1999 to 2000 and all subsequent fiscal years. (Ord. 98.83, 4-19-1999)
1-11-6: BUDGET AND APPROPRIATION:
The city adopts the Illinois municipal budget law, 50 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 330 et seq., as its method of budget and appropriation for fiscal year
1999 to 2000 and subsequent years.
   A.   The city shall, within or before the first quarter of each year, adopt
a combined budget and appropriation ordinance, by which ordinance the city may
appropriate such sum or sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city, and in such annual budget and
appropriation ordinance shall specify the objects and purposes for which such
appropriations are made and the amount appropriated for each object or purpose,
and such other information as 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 330 et seq., may
require. (Ord. 98.82, 4-19-1999)
   B.   The city hereby establishes a department of commerce and community
affairs and appoints the city manager, or his designee, as the department head,
with such staff as may be approved by the city in its personnel ordinance.
(Ord. 98.82, 4-19-1999; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
1-11-7: STATE GIFT BAN ACT:
   A.   Adoption:
      1.   The state gift ban act 1  is hereby adopted as required by section
83 of the act 2 .
      2.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the act is prohibited by any elected or appointed official or
any employee of the city.
      3.   All nonsalaried appointed or elected officials are exempted from the
act and the provisions of this section.
   B.   Ethics Officer: To the extent authorized by law and to the extent
required by section 35 of the act 3 , the city manager is appointed to serve as
the "ethics officer" of the city. The ethics officer's duties shall be as
provided in section 35 of the act.
   C.   Local Ethics Commission; Complaints:
      1.   To the extent authorized by law and to the extent required by the
act, the mayor shall appoint three (3) persons to a local ethics commission
with the advice and consent of the city council.
      2.   The local ethics commission shall have the power and duties set
forth in section 55 of the act.
      3.   To the extent that any of its provisions may be applicable, section
45 of the act shall be applicable to the local ethics commission.
      4.   The complaint procedure and the enforcement and penalty provisions
of the act and this subsection C shall be as provided the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   D.   Future Amendments: Any amendment to the state gift ban act 4  that
becomes effective after the passage of this section shall be incorporated into
this section by reference and shall be applicable to the solicitation and
acceptance of gifts. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this section by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the city.
   E.   Future Declaration Of Unconstitutionality:
      1.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the state gift ban act 5
unconstitutional in its entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the
date that the supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any
further appeals or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without
further action by the corporate authorities of the city if the act is found
unconstitutional by the Illinois supreme court.
      2.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the state gift ban
act 6  unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of
the act or does not address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the
act as adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however,
that part of this section relating to the part of the act found
unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without further action by the
corporate authorities of the city. (Ord. 99.15, 6-7-1999; amd. Ord. 99.36, 8-2-
1999; Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 425.
2 2. 5 ILCS 425/83.
3 5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.
4 4. 5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.
5 5. 5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.
6 5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.
1-11-8: AUTHORIZED SIGNATURES:
The individuals whose signatures shall be on all bank accounts for the city
shall be as follows:
   A.   Mayor.
   B.   City clerk.
   C.   Treasurer. (Ord. 99.24, 6-21-1999)
   D.   City manager. (Ord. 99.24, 6-21-1999; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
Each bank account for the city shall require two (2) signatures of the above
listed individuals. (Ord. 99.24, 6-21-1999)
1-11-9: INTERFUND LOANS:
The assets in the various funds of the city as they may be, from time to time
may be deposited in the same or several accounts for purposes of convenience of
administration and return on investment. In the event a particular fund has a
negative cash balance, a loan shall automatically be credited from the positive
balance funds to the negative balance fund in the account and shall be promptly
debited from the negative balance fund to the positive balance fund on receipt
of negative fund assets in the account. (Ord. 2003.16, 5-19-2003)
1-11-10: HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   All hearings of the public body shall be subject to the Illinois open
meetings act.
   B.   The chair may impose reasonable limitations on evidence or testimony
presented by persons and parties, such as time limits and barring repetitious,
irrelevant or immaterial testimony. Time limits, if imposed, shall be fair, and
equally administered. The public body shall not be bound by strict rules of
evidence; however, irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence shall
not be admissible. The chair shall rule on all questions related to the
admissibility of evidence, which ruling may be overruled by a majority of at
least a quorum of the public body. The chair may impose reasonable conditions
on the hearing process based on the following factors:
      1.   The complexity of the issue.
      2.   Whether the witness possesses special expertise.
      3.   Whether the testimony reflects a matter of taste or personal opinion
or concerns a disputed issue of fact.
      4.   The degree to which the witness's testimony relates to the factors
to be considered in approving or denying the proposal.
      5.   Such other factors appropriate for the hearing.
   C.   The chair may take such actions as are required to maintain an orderly
and civil hearing.
   D.   Proof of lawful notice shall be introduced into evidence before the
public body.
   E.   A record of proceedings shall be made as directed by the public body.
   F.   At a public hearing, a petitioner may appear on his or her own behalf
or may be represented by an attorney.
   G.   The municipality shall be a party in every proceeding, and need not
appear.
   H.   In addition to the petitioner, any person may appear and participate at
the hearing.
   I.   People participating shall identify themselves for the record, either
orally or in writing, and indicate if an attorney represents them. Any person
participating, other than the petitioner, shall be referred to in these rules
as interested persons.
   J.   The examination of a witness shall not be used by the questioner to
offer testimony or evidence of the questioner.
   K.   All persons offering testimony at a hearing shall testify under oath.
An attorney shall be sworn if he or she offers testimony but not if he or she
is questioning witnesses, summarizing testimony of witnesses, or addressing the
public body.
   L.   The order of presentation of evidence at a public hearing shall
generally be as follows, but may be modified as determined appropriate by the
chair:
      1.   Identification of petitioner and interested persons.
      2.   Submittal of proof of notice.
      3.   Testimony and other evidence by petitioner.
      4.   Public body examination of petitioner's witnesses and other
evidence.
      5.   Cross examination of petitioner's witnesses and other evidence by
interested persons.
      6.   Testimony and other evidence by interested persons.
      7.   Public body examination of interested persons' witnesses and other
evidence.
      8.   Cross examination of interested persons' witnesses and other
evidence by petitioner.
      9.   In some cases reexamination may be allowed.
      10.   Report by staff, if any.
      11.   Summary/closing by petitioner.
      12.   Summary/closing by interested persons.
      13.   Rebuttal/closing by petitioner.
   M.   At the conclusion of an evidentiary portion of the public hearing, the
public body may, among other actions, move to deliberate its decision on the
evidence presented, or continue the hearing to a date, time and location
certain.
   N.   A written decision shall be prepared which shall include findings of
fact and the public body's recommendation or decision based upon the record.
   O.   These rules for public hearing may be amended by a vote of a majority
of the public body. (Ord. 2003.31, 7-7-2003)
1-11-11: RESPONSIBLE BIDDER POLICY:
   A.   "Responsible bidder for construction contracts" means a bidder who
meets all of the job specifications, the following applicable criteria, and
submits evidence of such compliance:
      1.   All applicable laws prerequisite to doing business in Illinois.
      2.   Evidence of compliance with:
         a.   Federal employer tax identification number or social security
number (for individuals); and
         b.   Provision of section 2000(e) of chapter 21, title 42 of the
United States Code and federal executive order no. 11246 as amended by
executive order no. 11375 (known as the equal opportunity employer provisions).
      3.   Certificates of insurance indicating the following coverages:
general liability, workers' compensation, completed operations, automobile,
hazardous occupation, product liability, and professional liability.
      4.   Compliance with all provisions of the Illinois prevailing wage act,
including wages, medical and hospitalization insurance and retirement for those
trades covered in the act. (Ord. 2008.04, 5-19-2008)
      5.   The bidder and all bidder's subcontractors shall demonstrate
experience with similar work and shall satisfy the city as to its ability to
carry out and successfully complete the work. (Ord. 2012.28, 10-15-2012)
1-11-12: DEBTORS OF THE CITY OF SYCAMORE POLICY:
   A.   Definition: "Debtor" means any person, firm or corporation having
outstanding fees, water bills, sales tax, hotel/motel tax or restaurant/bar tax
payments that are past due, or having outstanding weed or nuisance abatement
fees or liens, failure to comply tickets or parking tickets that are not in
dispute, fines for ordinance violation outstanding or ordinance violation
charges that are not in dispute, or is otherwise indebted to the city of
Sycamore (other than in the ordinary course of business).
   B.   Impact Of City Functions On Debtor: Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this code:
      1.   No person, firm or corporation shall be awarded a contract with the
city if such person, firm or corporation is a debtor to the city.
      2.   The city shall make no payments to any person, firm or corporation
who is a debtor to the city.
      3.   The city shall not issue permits to, nor approve any agreements
with, any person, firm or corporation who is a debtor to the city.
      4.   The city shall not provide inspection services (or continue to
provide inspection services) for a person, firm or corporation (or their agent)
who is a debtor to the city.
      5.   The city shall not issue licenses to any person, firm or corporation
who is a debtor to the city.
   C.   Revocation Or Suspension Of License: Licenses issued by the city may be
revoked for failure to pay any tax, duty or other sum due to the city from the
licensee or if it is learned that the licensee is or has become a debtor to the
city. (Ord. 2014.20, 11-3-2014)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Membership
2-1-2: Terms Of Office; Vacancies; Compensation
2-1-3: Organization
2-1-4: Powers And Duties
2-1-5: Filing Fees
2-1-6: Official Map
2-1-7: Expenditures
2-1-8: Annexation To Park District
2-1-1: MEMBERSHIP:
The Sycamore Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of twelve (12)
members, eight (8) of whom shall be at-large members from the residents of the
City or within one and one-half (11/2) miles thereof and four (4) of whom shall
respectively be members of and represent the following groups and organizations
in the City: the City Council, the Board of Education of the Community Unit
School District no. 427, the Sycamore Park District, and the Sycamore Public
Library Board. All members shall be subject to confirmation by the City
Council. The Mayor shall also name one member of said commission to be the
Chairman thereof who shall serve as such Chairman until removed therefrom by
the Mayor. The removal of said Chairman by the Mayor shall not terminate his
term as a member of the commission. (Ord. 2019.01, 5-6-2019)
2-1-2: TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Terms Of Office:
      1.   Ex Officio Members: The members of the commission serving ex officio
shall serve for the term of their respective Municipal offices.
      2.   Representatives: Those members of the commission representing the
City Council, Board of Education and Park District shall serve on and be
members of the commission only while holding membership in the respective
organization that they represent. Any such member, upon termination of his
membership in the organization he represents, shall ipso facto cease to be a
member of the Sycamore Planning and Zoning Commission.
         a.   City Council: The term of the member representing the City
Council shall be for two (2) years. In the first instance the member appointed
representing the City Council shall be appointed for a term expiring May 1.
         b.   Board Of Education: The term of the member representing the Board
of Education shall be for two (2) years.
         c.   Park Board: The term of the member representing the Sycamore Park
Board shall be for a period of two (2) years.
         d.   Other Boards: With respect to the members representing the
various governmental boards, said boards shall recommend to the Mayor the name
of one of their number who shall serve on the Planning and Zoning Commission.
The Mayor may ask for a second recommendation, but in any event shall appoint
one of the two (2) persons so recommended by said governmental bodies.
   B.   Vacancies: All vacancies occurring in the commission shall be filled by
appointment, for the remainder of the unexpired term of office only, in the
same manner as the original appointments.
   C.   Removals: Any member of the commission may be removed therefrom by the
Mayor, subject to ratification by the City Council, for due cause shown.
   D.   Compensation: All members of the commission shall serve without
compensation, except the Secretary, who shall be paid a salary in an amount set
by the commission and paid out of funds received by the commission. (Ord.
2019.01, 5-6-2019)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Chairman: The Mayor shall name one member of the commission to be the
Chairman thereof, who shall serve as such Chairman until removed therefrom by
the Mayor. The removal of said Chairman by the Mayor shall not terminate his
term as a member of the commission.
   B.   Secretary And Other Officers: The Mayor shall appoint a Secretary and
the commission shall elect such other officers from its own membership as it
shall deem necessary.
   C.   Bylaws: The commission shall adopt such bylaws regulating the time,
place and manner of holding its meetings and conducting its business, as may,
in the judgment of said commission, be proper and necessary in carrying on the
work of the commission.
   D.   Records And Reports: Said commission shall keep a written record of its
proceedings, which shall be open at all times to public inspection and shall
also file an annual report with the City Council setting forth its transactions
and recommendations. In all instances said commission shall report directly to
the City Council. (Ord. 2019.01, 5-6-2019)
2-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   Drafting Of Comprehensive Plan:
      1.   To prepare and recommend to the City Council a Comprehensive Plan
for the present and future development or redevelopment of said City and
contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles
beyond the corporate limits of the City and not included in any other
municipality. Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or
functional parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the Official
Comprehensive Plan, or part thereof, of the City. Such plan shall be advisory,
except as to such part thereof as has been implemented by ordinances duly
enacted by the City Council. All requirements for public hearing, filing of
notice of adoption with the County Recorder of Deeds and filing of said plan
and ordinances with the Municipal Clerk shall be complied with as provided for
by law 1 .
      2.   To provide for the health, safety, comfort and convenience of the
inhabitants of the City and contiguous territory, such plan shall establish
reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for resubdivisions of
unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in respect to public
improvements, as herein defined, and shall establish reasonable requirements
governing the location, width, course and surfacing of public streets and
highways, alleys, ways for public service facilities, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, street lights, parks, playgrounds, school guards, size of lots to be
used for residential purposes, stormwater drainage, water supply and
distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage collection and treatment. The
requirements specified herein shall become regulatory only when adopted by
ordinance.
   B.   Changes To Comprehensive Plan: To recommend to the City Council, from
time to time, such changes in the Comprehensive Plan, or any part thereof, as
may be deemed necessary.
   C.   Designation Of Annexations: To designate land suitable for annexation
to the Municipality and the recommended zoning classification for such land
upon annexation.
   D.   Recommendation Of Specific Improvements: To prepare and recommend to
the City Council, from time to time, plans and/or recommendations for specific
improvements in pursuance of the Official Comprehensive Plan.
   E.   Direction Of Projects: To give aid to the officials of the City charged
with the direction of projects for improvements embraced within the Official
Plan, or parts thereof, to further the making of such improvements and
generally to promote the realization of the Official Comprehensive Plan.
   F.   Public Relations: To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative
to its activities for the general purpose of public understanding.
   G.   Cooperation With Other Agencies: To cooperate with Municipal or
regional Planning Commissions and other agencies or groups to further the local
planning program and to assure harmonious and integrated planning for the area.
   H.   Appeals: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall pass upon all appeals
provided by ordinance and from the Building Commissioner/Zoning Officer on any
orders, requirements, decisions involving questions of Zoning, Building,
Building and Construction Codes, subdivision or other determinations and
permits and hear and decide all matters involving water, sewer, street
variances in the City, solely in instances where there is evidence of practical
difficulty or peculiar hardship in the enforcement of the strict letter of the
law.
   I.   Statutory Powers: To exercise such other powers germane to the powers
granted under authority of an Act of the General Assembly of the State of
Illinois entitled Illinois Municipal Code approved May 29, 1961, and effective
July 1, 1961, and as amended, as may be conferred by the City Council. (Ord.
2019.01, 5-6-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-5.
2-1-5: FILING FEES:
The fees for filing matters to be heard by the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall be as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule for
filing and publishing pre-annexation agreements, planned unit developments, and
all other matters requiring publication. The fees for filing matters to be
heard by the Planning and Zoning Commission which do not require publication
shall be as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. All fees
shall be payable upon filing with the City Clerk. (Ord. 2019.01, 5-6-2019; amd.
Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
2-1-6: OFFICIAL MAP:
   A.   At any time before or after the formal adoption of the Official
Comprehensive Plan by the Corporate Authorities, an Official Map may be
designated by ordinance, which map may consist of the whole area included
within the Official Comprehensive Plan or one or more separate geographical or
functional parts, and may include all or any part of the contiguous
unincorporated area within one and one-half (11/2) miles from the corporate
limits of the City. All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of
adoption with the County Recorder of Deeds and filing of said plan and
ordinances, including the Official Map, with the Municipal Clerk shall be
complied with as provided for by law 1 .
   B.   No map or plat of any subdivision or resubdivision presented for record
affecting land within the corporate limits of the City or within contiguous
territory, which is not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the
corporate limits shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the
subdivision shown thereon provides for standards of design and standards
governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways for public service facilities,
street lights, public grounds, size of lots to be used for residential
purposes, storm sewers and stormwater storage facilities, water supply and
distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage collection and treatment in conformity
with the applicable requirements of the ordinances, including the Official Map.
(Ord. 2019.01, 5-6-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-6.
2-1-7: EXPENDITURES:
The commission may, upon prior authority from the City Council, employ
necessary help whose salaries, wages and other necessary expenses shall be
provided for by appropriations made by the City Council from the public funds
or from other funds available to the commission. If the commission shall deem
it advisable, it may employ and pay for technical consultation or services,
upon prior authority from the City Council, paying such amounts as may be
authorized by the City Council. (Ord. 2019.01, 5-6-2019)
2-1-8: ANNEXATION TO PARK DISTRICT:
A petition for annexation of land to the City shall be acted upon only after
proper petition for said land to the Sycamore Park District is made and acted
upon by said district or in the alternative at City's option, annexations to
City may be ordained without prior petition to Park District, but said
ordinance shall be conditioned upon annexation to the Park District occurring
within such time as the City Council shall see fit and on the posting of such
security as the Council shall see fit to assure compliance with this provision.
If the land which is the subject of the petition for annexation is not
contiguous to the Park District and cannot be annexed thereto, this section
shall not apply and the City may impose such conditions, if any, concerning
Park District annexation as it deems reasonable. (Ord. 2019.01, 5-6-2019)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Planning And Zoning Commission
2-2-1: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
All duties formerly performed by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be performed
by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Any reference to the Board of Zoning
Appeals in this Code or the Unified Development Ordinance shall be deemed to
refer to the Planning and Zoning Commission. (Ord. 2019.01, 5-6-2019)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY (ESDA)
SECTION:
2-3-1: Agency Established; Membership
2-3-2: Director
2-3-3: Functions
2-3-4: Service As Mobile Support Team
2-3-5: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
2-3-6: Emergency Action
2-3-7: Compensation
2-3-8: Reimbursement By State
2-3-9: Purchases And Expenditures
2-3-10: Oath
2-3-11: Office
2-3-1: AGENCY ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   There is hereby created the Sycamore ESDA to prevent, minimize, repair
and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage or other hostile action or from natural or manmade disaster, in
accordance with the Illinois emergency management agency act 1 .
   B.   This ESDA shall consist of the director and such additional members as
may be selected by the director. (1994 Code; amd. Ord., 6-26-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
2-3-2: DIRECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: The director of the city ESDA shall be the city manager.
The director reports to the mayor in his/her capacity as chief elected official
of the city. General oversight of the ESDA is by the city council to which the
director reports as necessary or when requested. (Ord. 99.12, 5-17-1999; amd.
Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
   B.   Responsibilities:
      1.   The director performs all emergency management duties prescribed by
law or delegated by the mayor. Execution of these duties may be limited by time
and resources allocated by the city council.
      2.   The director heads the ESDA which is responsible for emergency
management. He/she has the authority and responsibility to plan, develop,
implement, direct and maintain the city's emergency management programs. This
includes activities in all disaster phases; mitigation, preparedness, response
and recovery. The director represents the city in all emergency management
matters.
      3.   During disaster operations, the director serves as the mayor's chief
of staff. He/she coordinates and supports the activities of government and
nongovernment organizations responding to a disaster within the city's
jurisdiction.
   C.   Representative Duties:
      1.   The director periodically carries out a hazards and vulnerability
analysis which is used to develop and keep current the city's disaster plan.
      2.   The director identifies and makes recommendations to the mayor
regarding efforts to mitigate hazardous conditions in an effort to prevent or
minimize the severity of a disaster.
      3.   The director initiates and coordinates the city's disaster planning
effort. He/she oversees the development and maintenance of the city's emergency
operations plan and assists city departments with their internal disaster
preparedness activities.
      4.   The director works with all city departments to develop and maintain
an inventory of resources necessary for an effective emergency response.
      5.   The director is available twenty four (24) hours per day, seven (7)
days per week to respond to emergency or disaster events requiring ESDA
support.
      6.   In order to ensure an effective disaster response, the director
develops and maintains effective relationships between the city, other
government agencies and nongovernment organizations having a disaster response
role.
      7.   The director advises the mayor and city council on emergency
management matters and keeps them informed of legal or other requirements for
local emergency preparedness.
   D.   Qualifications:
      1.   Five (5) years of progressively responsible, full time employment in
government, the military or the private sector. Two (2) of the five (5) years
must include experience in administration or planning.
      2.   The director must exhibit the following: knowledge of the methods
for planning, organizing, implementing and directing emergency management
programs; knowledge of the structure, functions and interrelationships of
state, county and municipal governments; ability to deal effectively with
state, county and municipal officials; knowledge of the organization, structure
and relationship of federal, state, county and municipal emergency management
agencies; ability to exercise good judgment in decision making; and ability to
communicate effectively with colleagues and the general public.
      3.   Emergency managers should complete at minimum the following courses:
         a.   Federal Emergency Management Agency Extension Courses: Emergency
program manager and emergency management.
         b.   Illinois Emergency Management Agency Sponsored Courses: Initial
emergency management seminar and advanced emergency management seminar. (Ord.,
6-26-1995)
2-3-3: FUNCTIONS:
The city ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the city as shall be
prescribed in and by the state EMA plan and program prepared by the governor
and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the governor.
In addition, the ESDA shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as
may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as provided in the
state EMA act. (1994 Code)
2-3-4: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
   A.   Members: All or any members of the city ESDA organization may be
designated as members of a mobile support team created by the director of the
state EMA as provided by law.
   B.   Leader: The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by
the director of the city ESDA organization.
   C.   Compensation: Any member of a mobile support team who is a city
employee or officer while serving on call to duty by the governor, or the state
director, shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights
and immunities incident to such employment of office. Any such member who is
not a paid officer or employee of the city, while so serving, shall receive
from the state reasonable compensation as provided by law. (1994 Code; amd.
Ord., 6-26-1995)
2-3-5: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The city director of ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other cities
or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the mayor and the state director of
EMA. (1994 Code; amd. Ord., 6-26-1995)
2-3-6: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action or
from manmade or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the city ESDA to
cooperate fully with the state EMA and with the governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law. (1994 Code)
2-3-7: COMPENSATION:
Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the city, if called
for training by the state director of EMA, shall receive for the time spent in
such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held. Members
who are not city employees or officers shall receive for such training time
such compensation as may be established by the mayor. (1994 Code)
2-3-8: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The city treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the city for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the state director of EMA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of the mobile support team while serving
outside the city in response to a call by the governor or state director of
EMA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident
to ESDA activities as provided by law. (1994 Code)
2-3-9: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   Authorization: The mayor may, on recommendation of the city director of
ESDA, authorize any purchases or contracts necessary to place the city in a
position to effectively combat any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster or from manmade or natural disaster.
   B.   Enemy Attack Procurements: In the event of enemy caused or other
disaster, the city director of ESDA is authorized, on behalf of the city, to
procure such services, supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for
such purposes, in accordance with the current approved disaster plan on file,
in view of exigency, without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to city contracts or obligations, as
authorized by the state EMA act; provided, that if the mayor and city council
meet at such time, he shall act subject to the directions and restrictions
imposed by that body. (1994 Code; amd. Ord., 6-26-1995)
2-3-10: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the city ESDA organization
shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following oath, which
shall be filed with the director:
I,                          , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and, that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States, or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the City of Sycamore ESDA organization, I
will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization
that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this
State by force or violence.
(1994 Code)
2-3-11: OFFICE:
The city manager is authorized to designate space in the city building or
elsewhere, as may be provided for by the city manager, for the city ESDA as its
office. (1994 Code; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Board Created; Membership, Terms And Appointment
2-4-2: Powers And Duties
2-4-3: Qualifications; Oath; Bond; Removal
2-4-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP, TERMS AND APPOINTMENT:
There shall be a board of fire and police commissioners as provided by law 1 ,
which shall consist of three (3) members whose terms shall be for three (3)
years. Such members shall be appointed by the mayor with consent of the city
council as provided by statute. No more than two (2) may be members of the same
political party. (1988 Code §7.1001)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.
2-4-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of fire and police commissioners shall have charge of all
appointments to and removals from the fire and police departments, except the
chief of the police department and chief of the fire department, according to
law. The board of fire and police commissioners shall conduct and hold all
entrance and promotional examinations in the manner required by law; provided,
however, that applicants for police department positions certified as an
Illinois police officer or deputy sheriff and applicants for fire department
positions certified as firefighter 2 and as EMT - paramedic may, at the board's
discretion, be accepted as candidates without written testing and with
compliance with the board's regulations, as amended from time to time, placed
on the final eligibility register for hire to police department positions.
(Ord. 2003.25, 6-16-2003)
2-4-3: QUALIFICATIONS; OATH; BOND; REMOVAL:
The members of the board of fire and police commissioners shall have such
qualifications as are now, or may hereafter be, required of them by law 1 .
Each member of the board of fire and police commissioners shall take oath or
affirmation of office and shall execute and deliver to the city a bond in
accordance with the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule with such
sureties as the mayor and city council shall approve, conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties of his office. The members of the board of
fire and police commissioners shall be subject to removal from office in the
same manner as other officers of the city. Each member shall file an affidavit
with the city clerk as to his state or national political party affiliation
prior to becoming a member of the board. (1988 Code §7.1003; amd. Ord. 2023.04,
5-1-2023)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-3.
CHAPTER 5
PENSION BOARDS
SECTION:
2-5-1: Firemen's Pension Board
2-5-2: Police Pension Board
2-5-1: FIREMEN'S PENSION BOARD:
   A.   Board Created; Membership: There shall be a firemen's pension board
consisting of five (5) members. Of these members, two (2) shall be appointed by
the mayor, serving a term of three (3) years each; two (2) shall be active
participants of the pension fund who are elected from the active participants
of the fund; and one (1) shall be a person who is retired under the Firemen's
Pension Fund Act of 1919 or Article 4 of 40 ILCS/5 who is elected from persons
retired under the Firemen's Pension Fund Act of 1919 or Article 4 of 40 ILCS/5.
Each member shall serve for three (3) years, and elected members shall be
selected in the manner provided by law 2 .
   B.   Duties: The board of trustees of the firemen's pension fund shall have
control of the management of all funds belonging to or designated by law as
part of the firemen's pension fund and of the administration of such funds, as
provided by statute 2 . (1988 Code §7.302; Ord. 99.35, 8-2-1999; Ord. 2024.02,
2-5-2024)
 
Notes
2 40 ILCS 5/4-121.
2 40 ILCS 5/4-101 et seq.
2-5-2: POLICE PENSION BOARD:
   A.   Board Created; Membership: There shall be a police pension board
consisting of five (5) members. Of these members, two (2) shall be appointed by
the mayor, serving a term of two (2) years each; two (2) shall be elected from
the regular police force of the city and one shall be elected from the
beneficiaries of the pension. Each member shall serve for two (2) years and
elected members shall be selected in the manner provided by law 3 . (1988 Code
§7.601)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the members of the police pension board
to manage, invest and control the police pension fund and all monies pertaining
thereto in the manner provided by statute and to perform all duties specified
by statute 4 . (1988 Code §7.602)
 
Notes
3 3. 40 ILCS 5/3-128.
4 4. 40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 6
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
(Rep. by Ord. 2019.01, 5-6-2019)
CHAPTER 7
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-7-1: Committee Created; Membership
2-7-2: Purpose
2-7-1: COMMITTEE CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
There is hereby created an Economic Development Committee to work with the
Mayor and Council in attracting new businesses and retaining existing
businesses in the City. It shall be composed of not more than twelve (12)
members, each of whom shall serve for terms of three (3) years (except in the
case of ex officio members whose terms shall end when the terms of their
respective Municipal office ends). Said members shall be composed of Sycamore
residents and owners of Sycamore businesses along with a representative from
the City Council, Chamber of Commerce, and DeKalb County Economic Development
Corporation. The Mayor, City Manager, and City Attorney will serve as ex
officio members with voting rights. (Ord. 2019.01, 5-6-2019)
2-7-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the committee is to provide input as the City creates planning
and development strategies that aim to diversify the tax base, promote private/
public partnerships, and stimulate investment of the City's economic base. In
addition, the committee shall help publicize development and redevelopment
plans including residential, commercial, industrial, and tourism related
activities. (Ord. 2019.01, 5-6-2019)
CHAPTER 8
HUMAN RELATIONS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-8-1: Commission Created; Membership
2-8-2: Appointments and Terms
2-8-3: Officers, Attendance and Vacancies
2-8-4: Powers and Duties
2-8-5: Meetings
2-8-6: Compensation
2-8-7: Removal of Members
2-8-8: Action within the Law
2-8-1: COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
There is hereby created an advisory body which shall be known as the Human
Relations Commission of Sycamore, Illinois. It shall be composed of twenty (20)
members, residents of Sycamore for a minimum of one year, representing the
following segments of Sycamore population:
   A.   Religious.
   B.   Racial.
   C.   Civic or service organizations.
   D.   Business or professional.
   E.   Educational. (1988 Code §7.1101)
2-8-2: APPOINTMENTS AND TERMS:
The members of this Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the
consent of the City Council, for four (4) year terms and until their successors
have been appointed; provided, that initial appointments shall be made on the
following basis to maintain continuity of experienced membership:
   A.   Five (5) for one year.
   B.   Five (5) for two (2) years.
   C.   Five (5) for three (3) years.
   D.   Five (5) for four (4) years. (1988 Code §7.1102)
2-8-3: OFFICERS, ATTENDANCE AND VACANCIES:
At its first meeting following each annual appointment of new members, the
Commission shall elect a chairman and such other officers as it deems
appropriate to hold office for one year and until their successors are elected.
Three (3) unexplained consecutive absences of any member from regular meetings
of the Commission in any one calendar year shall be tantamount to resignation.
The City Council shall fill vacancies. (1988 Code §7.1103)
2-8-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Commission shall:
   A.   Foster mutual self respect and understanding and promote amicable
relations among all racial, religious and ethnic groups in the community.
   B.   Make such investigations and studies in any field of human
relationships in the community as in the judgment of the Commission will aid in
effecting the above.
   C.   Inquire into incidents of division and conflict based upon
discriminations because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry
and seek to resolve such conflict by recommending to the City Council of
Sycamore such actions as may be considered necessary or helpful.
   D.   Conduct, promote and recommend such educational and other programs as
will increase good will among inhabitants of the community.
   E.   Submit to the City Council annual reports, special reports and
recommendations as may be necessary to carry out the general purposes of the
Commission. The Commission shall not be political in aim or function and shall
not act as agent of any group, but shall promote harmonious relations in the
life of the community and in the preservation of human rights under law. (1988
Code §7.1105)
2-8-5: MEETINGS:
Regular meetings shall be held once each two (2) months. Special meetings may
be called on twenty four (24) hours' notice by the chairman or at the request
of any three (3) members. Eleven (11) members shall constitute a quorum and the
act of a majority of those members present at any meeting at which a quorum is
present shall be the act of the Commission. (1988 Code §7.1104)
2-8-6: COMPENSATION:
The members shall serve without compensation. (1988 Code §7.1106)
2-8-7: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
The Council, by two-thirds (2/3) vote of all its members authorized by law to
be elected, may remove any Commission member; provided, that the motion
proposing the removal of a Commission member must be made at a regular public
meeting of the Council. (1988 Code §7.1107)
2-8-8: ACTION WITHIN THE LAW:
The Commission shall not take action which conflicts with local, State or
Federal law whether now in existence or hereafter enacted. (1988 Code §7.1108)
CHAPTER 9
LIBRARY BOARD
SECTION:
2-9-1: Board Established
2-9-2: Terms
2-9-3: Organization
2-9-4: Duties and Functions
2-9-5: Rules and Regulations
2-9-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
There shall be a board of library directors for the city as provided by law 1 .
The board shall consist of nine (9) directors to be appointed by the mayor by
and with the advice and consent of the council, and not more than one director
shall be a member of the city council. (1988 Code §7.501)
 
Notes
1 1. 75 ILCS 5/4-1.
2-9-2: TERMS:
The terms of the library directors shall be three (3) years, staggered so that
three (3) terms expire each year, as provided by law 1 . (1988 Code §7.502)
 
Notes
1 2. 75 ILCS 5/4-1.1.
2-9-3: ORGANIZATION:
The library directors shall select a president and secretary as provided by
statute 1 , and shall meet at such times as the library board may determine.
(1988 Code §7.503)
 
Notes
1 3. 75 ILCS 5/4-6.
2-9-4: DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS:
The library board shall have charge of the operations of the city library and
of the expenditure of all library funds. Each year it shall file a report with
the city council containing, among other things, an itemized statement of the
expenses anticipated for the coming year, as required by law 1 . (1988 Code
§7.504)
 
Notes
1 4. 75 ILCS 5/4-7.
2-9-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The board of library directors shall have the power to recommend to the city
council or to enact rules and regulations governing the use of the library and
library facilities. Any person violating any such rule shall be subject to
penalty as provided by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988
Code § 7.505; 1994 Code; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 10
CITIZEN’S BEAUTIFICATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-10-1: Membership
2-10-2: Meetings
2-10-3: Duties And Functions
2-10-1: MEMBERSHIP:
The Committee shall consist of seven (7) persons to be appointed by the Mayor
with the consent of the City Council. Effective August 1, 2022, a person
appointed to the Committee shall serve a term of three (3) years. This term may
be extended after the three (3) years for no more than two (2) additional
three-year terms. Members of the Committee shall serve no more than three (3)
consecutive three-year terms (a total of nine (9) years). Reappointment shall
be at the discretion of the Mayor. The members of the Committee shall elect the
Chairman and Vice-Chairman on an annual basis. All terms shall expire April
30th. (Ord. 2022.05, 7-5-2022)
2-10-2: MEETINGS:
The Committee shall meet on a regular basis on a schedule to be determined by
the members but not less than once per quarter. A regular place of meeting
shall be established by the Committee members. The Chairman shall provide all
members with a written agenda or notice of cancellation of these meetings not
less than five (5) days in advance of the meeting. All meetings shall be open
to the public. (Ord. 2022.05, 7-5-2022)
2-10-3: DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS:
The Committee shall have as its duties and functions:
   A.   To recommend to the City Council all programs of any description or
variety calculated to enhance the appearance of the City of Sycamore, including
but not limited to recommendations for priorities of City action, and changes
in ordinances adopted by the City Council;
   B.   To plan, develop, create, investigate, prepare studies, suggestions,
and recommendations to the City Council in relation to beatification of the
City. To that end, develop a systematic program for the present and future
betterment of the City of Sycamore;
   C.   To work with appropriate City personnel to establish if beautification
projects meet with City, County, State, and Federal codes;
   D.   To facilitate the City’s façade improvement program and to make
recommendations to the City Council with respect to grant requests and the
program itself;
   E.   To work with appropriate City personnel to establish means to elicit
volunteer participation in beautification projects;
   F.   To elicit citizen cooperation in carrying out beautification projects
whether on a City wide or localized scale which involve landscaping on public
or private property;
   G.   To serve as an advisory body to the City Council and the City Manager
and other City officials in developing plans for projects involving City
beautification;
   H.   To request, receive, and utilize staff assistance from the City
Administration to enable the Committee to carry out its responsibilities;
   I.   To request, receive ,and utilize City funds to carry out its
responsibilities if:
      1.   Such requests are submitted in writing to the City Manager; and
      2.   Such requests are included in the City’s annual budget and
appropriation ordinance, and supplement thereto;
   J.   To receive gifts and donations of any variety from other public or
private groups or individuals, which gifts or donations would assist the
Committee in carrying out its duties and functions. (Ord. 2022.05, 7-5-2022)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Licensing Requirements
3-1-2: Applications For Licenses
3-1-3: Investigation Of Applicant; Inspection Of Premises
3-1-4: Building And Premises Requirements
3-1-5: Payment Of Fees
3-1-6: Signatures On Licenses And Permits
3-1-7: Vehicle Tags
3-1-8: Posting License
3-1-9: Inspections
3-1-10: Nuisances
3-1-11: Change Of Location
3-1-12: Termination Of Licenses
3-1-13: Revocation Of License
3-1-14: Appeal Procedure
3-1-15: Penalties
3-1-1: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person shall be subject to the requirement if
by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds himself forth as
being engaged in the business or occupation or solicits patronage therefor,
actively or passively, or performs or attempts to perform any part of such
business or occupation in the city. (1988 Code §10.102)
3-1-2: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be made,
in writing, to the city clerk on forms providing such information as is
required by such officer, in the absence of provisions to the contrary. (1988
Code §10.101)
3-1-3: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
Upon receipt of an application for a license or permit where ordinances of the
city require an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such permit
or license, the city clerk shall refer such application to the proper officer
for making such inspection or investigation. Unless otherwise provided, all
inspections shall be made by the city engineer and all investigations conducted
by the chief of police or some other officer designated by the mayor. (1988
Code §10.104)
3-1-4: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and buildings to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the city. No such license
or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any
act which would involve a violation of the zoning ordinance of the city. (1988
Code §10.107)
3-1-5: PAYMENT OF FEES:
In the absence of provisions to the contrary, all fees and charges for licenses
or permits shall be paid in advance at the time that the application therefor
is made to the city clerk. All fees for investigations shall be delivered to
the city clerk payable to the city or the investigation service provider, as
the case may be, at the time the license application is submitted. (Ord.
2002.67, 1-6-2003)
3-1-6: SIGNATURES ON LICENSES AND PERMITS:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the city clerk and/
or the building commissioner/zoning officer. (1988 Code §10.103; amd. 1994
Code)
3-1-7: VEHICLE TAGS:
Whenever the number of vehicles used is the basis of a license fee, the city
clerk shall furnish each licensee with a tag or sticker which shall be posted
in a conspicuous place on each such vehicle while it is in use. (1988 Code
§10.113)
3-1-8: POSTING LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the city
to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used for such
business at all times. (1988 Code §10.112)
3-1-9: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Right Of Entry: Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in
connection with the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided
for or required by ordinance or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance
with any code provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty
of the licensee or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to
admit thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee
of the city who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any
reasonable time that admission is requested upon proper presentation of
identification and legal authorization as required by law.
   B.   Submittal Of Samples: Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material
is reasonably necessary to secure conformance with any code provision or to
detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the
municipality whose business is governed by such provision to give to any
authorized officer or employee of the city requesting the same, sufficient
samples of such material or commodity for such analysis upon request upon
proper presentation of identification and legal authorization as required by
law.
   C.   Failure To Comply; Revocation Of License: In addition to any other
penalty which may be provided, the mayor may, on first cause, revoke the
license 1  of any licensed proprietor of any licensed business in the city who
refuses to permit any such officer or employee who is authorized to make such
inspection or take such sample to make the inspection or take an adequate
sample of the said commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee
while in the performance of his duty in making such inspection. Provided, that
no license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon
the licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the city,
stating that such inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to
make the inspection or obtain the sample. (1988 Code §10.110)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-13 of this chapter for revocation procedures.
3-1-10: NUISANCES 1 :
No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance in fact. (1988 Code §10.109)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 4, chapter 3 of this code for nuisance provisions.
3-1-11: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
The location of any licensed business or occupation or of any permitted act,
other than license for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages, may be
changed; provided, ten (10) days' notice thereof is given to the city clerk, in
the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided, that the building,
zoning and frontage consent requirements of the ordinances are complied with.
(1988 Code §10.108)
3-1-12: TERMINATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   All annual licenses shall terminate on April 30 where no provision to
the contrary is made.
   B.   The city clerk shall mail to all licensees of the city a statement of
the time of expiration of the license held by the licensee, if an annual, three
(3) weeks prior to the date of such expirations. Provided, that a failure to
send out such notice or the failure of the licensee to receive it shall not
excuse the licensee from a failure to obtain a new license or a renewal thereof
nor shall it be a defense in an action from operation without a license. (1988
Code §10.106)
3-1-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be revoked by the mayor and city
council during the life of such license or permit for the violation by the
licensee or permittee of any provision relating to the license or permit, the
subject of the license or permit, or the premises occupied; such revocation may
be in addition to any fine imposed. The mayor, city and the council shall be
authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the
premises, and the suspension of any business license or permit for a period not
to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the city officials have so acted,
the mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the license or permit should be revoked.
   B.   Notice of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds for the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee or permittee at his last known address at least five (5) days prior to
the date for the hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross-examine
witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render the decision and
recommendation.
   D.   Causes for Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the City, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the Mayor
and the City Council after notice and hearing as provided in subsections B and
C of this Section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or State law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit or the premises occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the City.
      5.   Refusal to permit any inspection or sampling or any interference
with a duly authorized City officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in the City Code. (1994 Code)
3-1-14: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the City to issue a license
or permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall have the right to
appeal the City's decision to the City Council. Such appeal shall be requested
by submitting a written request to the Mayor within five (5) days of the action
of the City which is appealed.
   B.   The City Council shall consider the appeal at its next regularly
scheduled meeting, at which time the applicant shall be entitled to present his
appeal orally or in writing. The Council shall act on the appeal within seven
(7) days of the hearing and shall either uphold the action of the City or shall
direct the issuance of a license or permit which the City had denied or the
reissuance of a license or permit which the City has revoked. (1994 Code)
3-1-15: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provisions of this Title shall be subject to penalty
as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code §
7.505; 1994 Code; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-2-3: License And Compliance Required
3-2-4: Application For License
3-2-5: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
3-2-6: Classification Of Licenses; Fees; Hours And Days
3-2-7: Number Of Licenses
3-2-8: Term Of License; Proration Of Fee
3-2-9: Renewal Of License
3-2-10: Transfer Of License
3-2-11: Building And Location Restrictions
3-2-12: Conditions Of License
3-2-13: Sanitary Conditions
3-2-14: Minors
3-2-15: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-2-16: Dramshop Insurance
3-2-17: BASSET Training
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
chapter shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
   ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing
more than one-half of one percent (1/2%) of alcohol by volume, which is fit for
beverage purposes.
   BANQUET HALL: A business conducted on premises at which the exclusive
activity is the catering of private parties where there is service for
consumption at tables of a full multiple course meal at a prearranged fixed
unit price, or hors d'oeuvres, buffet or smorgasbord, and at which alcoholic
liquor may be served or sold as an incident to such food services; provided
that each of such private parties is prearranged under the sponsorship of a
particular person or organization.
   BAR: Any public place where alcoholic liquors are sold and the primary
purpose of the establishment is for the consumption of such alcoholic beverages
on the premises, and food service may or may not be included.
   BEER: A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, salt and hops in water. This definition
includes, among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the
like.
   BEER AND WINE ESTABLISHMENT: Any public place kept, used, maintained and
advertised where beer and wine are sold for consumption off the premises only.
The display of beer and wine shall be separated from other nonalcoholic
beverages, food, or dry goods. Only persons who have attained the age of twenty
one (21) years shall be permitted to sell beer and wine.
   BOWLING ALLEY: An establishment or building or part of an establishment or
building wherein the game of bowling, played with composition balls and ten
(10) wooden pins, is played.
   CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this State and not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors. Such corporation shall own or lease a
building or space in a building which shall be kept, used, and maintained by
its members through the payment of annual dues. The owned or leased space shall
have a suitable and adequate kitchen and dining room with equipment and
accommodations approved by the City's Building and Zoning Department and the
DeKalb County Health Department. At the time of the initial license
application, and with each subsequent license renewal application, each club
shall file with the Mayor two (2) copies of a list of names and addresses of
its members and officers and shall also regularly update the names and
addresses of its officers and new members within thirty (30) days of their
appointment to membership or office. No member, officer, or employee of a club
shall be paid directly or indirectly from the profits from the distribution or
sale of alcoholic liquor, beyond the amount of salary that may be fixed from
time to time by the Governing Body of the club out of the club's general
revenue.
   EVENT VENUE: A business conducted on premises in an event space and/or
within the grounds of the business which may be used for private functions such
as weddings, showers, banquets, and corporate events OR which may be used for
events open to the public such as fundraisers, celebrations of life, classes,
and shopping events, and for which alcoholic beverage may be consumed only on
the premises, and only periodically in furtherance of and during such private
or public events.
   GOLF COURSE: Any eighteen (18) hole facility, public or private, that offers
alcoholic beverages for sale to its patrons for consumption on premises only.
Space for the consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be limited to an indoor
lounge, restaurant, food court, an attached area for outside seating on the
golf course itself, from beverage carts on the course itself, or at shelters on
contiguous property owned by the governing authority of the golf course,
provided that such is done ancillary to catered functions or special events.
Any outside seating areas shall be adjunct to the food service business of the
lounge, restaurant or food court and shall conform to the following provisions:
   A.   Shall be owned and operated by the governing authority of the golf
course;
   B.   Shall be enclosed with a non-barricade type fence or railing or other
barrier that allows viewing;
   C.   Access shall be limited through the licensed premises or monitored
entrances that are controlled by employees during all hours when alcohol may be
served;
   D.   Seating shall not be included to meet the required guest seating
capacity for any license classification of this chapter;
   E.   Music may be played in the outdoor area, but may not exceed Noise
Ordinance limits;
   F.   Except as otherwise provided below, hours of operation for golf course
liquor service are restricted from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon until dusk.
However, when the clubhouse facility is rented by written agreement for special
occasions (such as wedding receptions, birthday parties, anniversary
gatherings, etc.) that take place at the clubhouse and have no relation to golf
events, the closing hour may be extended to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Sunday
through Thursday and until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight Friday and Saturday.
   GROSS ANNUAL RECEIPTS: The total amount of money that an establishment
derives through operation of its business from all sources during the period
beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of each year. This amount shall
include, but not be limited to, Net Income from Video Terminals and Machines,
as well as all money generated from the sale of beverages (whether alcoholic or
otherwise) and food, without subtracting any costs or expenses.
   INTOXICATION OR INTOXICATED: As a result of drinking alcoholic liquor, there
is an impairment of a person's mental or physical faculties so as to diminish
the ability to think and act with ordinary care.
   LICENSEE: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or club holding a
license under the provisions of this chapter.
   LIVE ENTERTAINMENT: The playing of live music by a person or persons using
string, brass, reed, woodwind, percussion, electronic, or digital instruments
not to exceed a volume as provided for in the UDO, and performances by
individuals and/or groups which may involve acting, singing, dancing, comedy,
and/or the recital of poetry.
   NET INCOME FROM VIDEO TERMINALS AND MACHINES: The total amount of money
which customers pay into video gaming terminals (or any other vendor operated/
owned machines) located on the premises, minus money paid out to players in
credit for winnings from such machines.
   PACKAGE GOODS: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, barrel, keg, hogshead, or other
receptacle or container, whatsoever, that is corked, capped, sealed and labeled
by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor for the purpose of containing and
conveying alcoholic liquor.
   RESTAURANT: Any public place that is kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where meals are served, and are actually
served, during regular hours, at least five (5) days per week. Restaurants that
are licensed to serve liquor shall meet the following standards:
   A.   Such establishments shall not prepare or sell a substantial volume of
food or beverages for consumption off premises. Fast food restaurants are
prohibited from serving liquor;
   B.   Such establishments shall have a sanitary kitchen with a three (3)
compartment sink, grease trap, hood suppression system, and other features as
may be required by the City's Building and Zoning Department and the DeKalb
County Health Department;
   C.   Such establishments shall have one or more fixed seating areas for
dining where patrons are served by paid waitstaff. After the effective date
hereof, the minimum occupancy for a new restaurant license issued to an
establishment that has not heretofore been a licensed liquor establishment in
the City of Sycamore shall be one hundred (100) persons if a bar with seats is
included. The maximum floor area allowance per occupant shall be fifteen (15)
net square feet. For smaller restaurants that do not have a bar with rail and
stools, the minimum occupancy shall be twenty (20) persons.
   D.   Such establishments shall have a full kitchen, and kitchen and serving
staff are in operation providing the restaurant's full menu to its guests
during its regular hours.
   SALE: Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether
principal, proprietor, agent, servant, or employee.
   SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended, or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   THEATER: A building used for the presentation of plays, films, or other
dramatic performances.
   VIDEO GAMING CAFES: An establishment with a State video gaming license where
video gaming is the primary purpose of the business and the sale of alcoholic
liquor or food is incidental to video gaming. Any restrictions elsewhere in
this chapter regarding a gross annual receipt threshold or percentage of space
dedicated to video gaming threshold does not apply to video gaming cafes.
   WINE: Any fermented spirits containing not more than twenty percent (20%) of
alcohol by volume, which is fit for beverage purposes. (Ord. 2018.11, 3-4-2019,
eff. 5-1-2019; amd. Ord. 2019.56, 4-20-2020; Ord. 2022.12, 10-17-2022; Ord.
2023.18, 11-6-2023)
3-2-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Designation: The Mayor is hereby designated to be the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner as defined in 235 ILCS 5/4-2 and shall be charged with the
administration of the Liquor Control Act and of such ordinances and resolutions
relating to alcoholic liquor as may be enacted by the City Council.
   B.   Powers and Duties:
      1.   To grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
for cause, all local licenses issued to persons or entities for premises within
the City. In lieu of suspension or revocation, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may instead levy a fine on the licensee, subject to limitations on
such fine as may be imposed by this chapter and 235 ILCS 5/7-5.
      2.   To enter or authorize any law enforcing officer to enter, at any
time, upon the premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of the State law or City ordinances or any rules or regulations
adopted by the City or by the Illinois Liquor Control Commission have been or
are being violated, and at such time to examine the premises of the licensee in
connection therewith.
      3.   To receive complaints from any citizen that any provision of the
State law or of this chapter have been or are being violated and to act upon
such complaints in the manner provided by law.
      4.   To receive local license fees and deposit same to the credit of the
City.
      5.   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a
local license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served, or any licensee against whom a
citation proceeding has been instituted by the State of Illinois Liquor Control
Commission; to examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of any
such applicant or licensee and to hear testimony and take evidence for his
information in the performance of his/her duties, and for such purpose to issue
subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this State. For the purpose
of obtaining any of the information desired by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner and making recommendations to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner under this section, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may
appoint a Liquor Control Board consisting of the Deputy Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, the City Attorney or his designee, and one member at large who
shall be a resident of the City. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall be
an ex officio member of the Liquor Control Board.
      6.   To order, by issuance of a written order, any licensed premises
closed for not more than seven (7) days giving the licensee an opportunity to
be heard during that period, if the Local Liquor Control Commissioner has
reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular licensed
premises will immediately threaten the public health, safety and welfare,
except if such licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another
business or businesses on the licensed premises, such order shall not be
applicable to such other business or businesses.
      7.   To notify the Secretary of State of Illinois where a club
incorporated under 805 ILCS 105/101.01 et seq. or a foreign corporation
functioning as a club in this State under a certificate of authority issued
under 805 ILCS 105/101.01 et seq. has violated this chapter by selling or
offering for sale at retail alcoholic liquors without a local liquor license
pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2018.11, 3-4-2019, eff. 5-1-2019; amd. Ord.
2023.18, 11-6-2023)
3-2-3: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale in the City any alcoholic liquor
without having a license or in violation of the terms of such license. Each
local liquor license issued under this chapter shall terminate on December 31
following the date of issuance. (Ord. 2018.11, 3-4-2019, eff. 5-1-2019; amd.
Ord. 2023.18, 11-6-2023)
3-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Liquor Commissioner, in
writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized
agent thereof, if a club, corporation or limited liability company, verified by
oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following information and statements:
   A.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit, a club, or a
limited liability company, the date of incorporation, the objects for which it
was organized, the names and addresses of the officers and directors; in the
case of a corporation, if a majority of the stock of such corporation, in
interest, is owned by one person or his nominee, the name and address of such
person; or in the case of a limited liability company, if a majority of the
membership interest of such company, in interest, is owned by one person or his
nominee, the name and address of such person;
   B.   The character of business of the applicant, and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
   C.   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued;
   D.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
   E.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license;
      1.   If a lease premises, a copy of the lease shall be provided as
required and shall be for a term of sufficient length to encompass the period
of the license sought.
      2.   The name and address of the owners or owners of the premises and the
names and addresses of all the owners of the beneficial interest of any trust
if said premises is held in trust.
   F.   A statement as to whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar license on premises other than described in this application and the
disposition of such application;
   G.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of the State or ordinances of the City;
   H.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof or by
the Federal government has been revoked and the reasons therefor;
   I.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
State or of the United States or any ordinance of the City in the conduct of
his/her place of business.
   J.   Any applicant for a newly created City liquor license or any applicant
for a renewal of a City liquor license (if the individual has not already
submitted such information) is to be fingerprinted in accordance with 235 ILCS
5/4-7 whether said applicant is an individual or a partnership. Should the
applicant be a corporation, the Commissioner may, within his discretion,
require the following to be fingerprinted: the officers, manager or director
thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning the aggregate of more than
five percent (5%) of the capital stock of said corporation. There shall be a
fingerprint fee equal to the cost of the investigation or the current fee
charged by the investigation service provider. Fees shall be payable to the
City or the investigation service provider, as the case may be, at the time the
license application is submitted to cover the cost of the investigation
application. Such fees are to be paid at time of application and are
nonrefundable. (Ord. 2018.11, 3-4-2019, eff. 5-1-2019; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023; Ord. 2023.18, 11-6-2023)
3-2-5: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No such license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a bona fide resident of the State of Illinois prior
to the submission of an application for said license;
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he/she resides;
   C.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or State
law if determined by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner that such person has
not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust;
   D.   A person who has been convicted of keeping a place of prostitution or
keeping a place of juvenile prostitution, promoting prostitution that involves
keeping a place of prostitution, or promoting juvenile prostitution that
involves keeping a place of juvenile prostitution;
   E.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or crimes of sex defined
by the criminal laws of this State or any other jurisdiction;
   F.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   G.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license under a first
application;
   H.   A co-partnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such co-partnership would not be eligible to
receive a license under this chapter for any reason other than residence in the
City;
   I.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than residence within the City;
   J.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
   K.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or State
law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor;
   L.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued;
   M.   No salaried employee who is a law enforcing public official, any Mayor
or any member of the City Council shall be interested in any way, either
directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic
liquor except that any member of the City Council may have a direct or indirect
interest in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor if (i)
the sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the license is incidental to the
selling of food, (ii) the issuance of the license is approved by both the local
authority and State Commission, (iii) the issuance of the license is in
accordance with all applicable local ordinances in effect where the premises
are located, and (iv) the official granted a license does not vote on alcoholic
liquor issues pending before the City Council;
   N.   Any person not eligible for a State retail liquor dealer's license;
   O.   Any applicant who fails to obtain a State liquor license;
   P.   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in Illinois or unless it is a
foreign corporation which is qualified under 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq. to
transact business in Illinois;
   Q.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of the subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of section 28-1 of, or as
proscribed by section 28-1.1 or 28-3 of 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq. or as proscribed
by a statute replacing any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
   R.   A person or entity to whom a Federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the Federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq. or 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.;
   S.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or consumption
on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor liability
insurance coverage for the premises in an amount that is at least equal to the
maximum liability amounts set out in 235 ILCS 5/6-21(a);
   T.   A criminal conviction of a corporation is not grounds for the denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license applied for or held by the corporation
if the criminal conviction was not the result of a violation of any Federal or
State law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor,
the offense that led to the conviction did not result in any financial gain to
the corporation and the corporation has terminated its relationship with each
director, officer, employee, or controlling shareholder whose actions directly
contributed to the conviction of the corporation. The Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall determine if all provisions of this subsection have been met
before any action on the corporation's license is initiated;
   U.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   V.   A limited liability company, if any member or manager thereof owning
more than five percent (5%) of the membership of such company, would not be
eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than citizenship
and residence within the City;
   W.   A limited liability company unless it is organized and registered in
Illinois, or unless it is a foreign limited liability company which is
qualified under 805 ILCS 180/1-1 et seq. to transact business in Illinois;
   X.   In addition to other grounds specified in this chapter, the Local
Liquor Commissioner shall determine if issuance or renewal of a local liquor
license, or suspend or revoke such license, for any of the following violations
of any Tax Act administered by the Illinois Department of Revenue:
      1.   Failure to make a tax return;
      2.   The filing of a fraudulent return;
      3.   Failure to pay all or any part of any tax or penalty finally
determined to be due;
      4.   Failure to keep books and records;
      5.   Failure to secure and display a certificate or sub-certificate of
registration, if required;
      6.   Willful violation of any rule or regulation of the department
relating to the administration and enforcement of tax liability. (Ord. 2018.11,
3-4-2019, eff. 5-1-2019; amd. Ord. 2023.18, 11-6-2023)
3-2-6: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES; HOURS AND DAYS:
   A.   Classifications And Fees:
      1. Initial License Fee: Persons or firms that do not currently hold a
valid City liquor license shall pay an initial application fee as set out in
the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. This fee is in addition to, and
not in place of, any license renewal fees that may apply on an annual basis.
Persons or firms that are presently licensed and that may apply for a license
in another classification, as defined by this Code, are exempt from this
initial application fee. The Liquor Commissioner may, with or without special
conditions, modify or waive the initial license fee at his/her discretion with
the concurrence of the City Council.
      2.   Class A; Restaurants: Class A licenses shall apply to establishments
that meet the definition in section
3-2-1 of this chapter whose primary purpose is that of serving food to be
consumed on premises. This license authorizes the sale of alcoholic liquors for
consumption on the premises only, and the sale of alcoholic liquors for
consumption off the premises in the context of a catered event permitted by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner and this Code. The annual fee for such
licenses shall be as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
Class A licensees may not sell package liquors. Any lawful restaurant on the
effective date hereof that does not conform to the provisions of this section
or this Code by virtue of its retail sale of gourmet wines and beers from an
attached but separate space on the premises may be continued.
      3.   Class B; Bar:
         a.   Class B licenses authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquors
where the primary purpose of the establishment is for the consumption of such
alcoholic liquors on the premises, and food service may or may not be included.
This license shall apply to establishments where the sale of alcoholic
beverages for consumption on premises constitutes at least eighty percent (80%)
of the gross annual receipts for alcoholic beverages. Bars may also sell
package liquors, but under no circumstances may a bar be converted to a package
goods store unless in conformance with the provisions of this Code and by the
licensing authority of the Illinois Liquor Control Commission. The annual fee
for Class B licenses shall be as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee Schedule. Bars that sell package goods shall pay an additional annual fee
as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. Bars with State
video gaming licenses must dedicate no more than twenty-five percent (25%) of
floor space to video gaming in order to maintain eligibility for a Class B
license. Additionally, the annual receipts derived from beverage and food sales
must be at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the Gross Annual Receipts as
defined in Section
3-2-1. The purpose of this calculation is to ensure that any licensee with a
Class B license maintains operations of a traditional bar with ancillary food
service as its primary business function and source of revenue.
         b.   Class B license holders have the option to receive an annual
permit for indoor catered events for an additional annual fee as set out in the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. This additional license holder
would receive an annual permit and would waive the requirement to obtain a
permit for each indoor catered event.
      4.   Class C; Club: Class C licenses shall apply to establishments that
meet the definition in section
3-2-1 of this chapter. The annual fee for such licenses shall be as set out in
the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. Clubs may sell package goods,
and any clubs that sell package goods shall pay an additional annual fee as set
out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      5.   Class D; Package Goods Store: Class D licenses authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises. The annual fee for such
licenses shall be as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      6.   Class E; Recreation: The annual license fee for Class E licenses
shall as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
         a.   Bowling Alley: A Class E license may authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquors for consumption on or off the premises of a bowling alley,
provided the establishment shall contain no less than twenty four (24) lanes
for bowling.
         b.   Golf Course: A Class E license may authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises of an 18-hole golf course
subject to the provisions of section 3-2-1 of this chapter provided only those
persons who have attained the age of twenty one (21) years may pour or serve
liquor in such facilities. An additional annual license fee as set out in the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule shall be charged for the operation
of an attached outdoor service area where alcoholic beverages are sold or
consumed. Furthermore, an annual license fee shall be charged for the privilege
of having beverage carts on the golf course as set out in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
         c.   Theater: A Class E license may authorize the sale of draught and
bottled beer, wine and wine coolers for consumption on the premises when sold
in non-breakable containers which must be of a different color, size or
material and design than those in which nonalcoholic beverages are served.
Alcoholic beverages may be consumed in the theater auditorium but may not be
delivered or served in any theater auditorium. A licensee shall maintain a
“bar” or counter for serving purposes only. Said bar shall not comprise more
than twenty percent (20%) of the floor area outside of the auditoriums. No more
than one alcoholic beverage may be served to a customer in any one trip to the
bar. All customers purchasing alcoholic beverages shall receive and wear a
wrist band that clearly delineates them as being of the legal consumption age.
It shall be unlawful for such licensee to sell any other alcoholic beverage on
the licensed premises in any manner or form. The annual license fee for
“theater” licenses shall be as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
         d.   Event Venue: A Class E license may authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises of an Event Venue subject to
the provisions of section
3-2-1 of this chapter. A licensee shall maintain a “bar” or counter for serving
purposes only. The annual license fee for an Event Venue shall be as set out in
the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      7.   Class F; Beer And Wine Sales For Consumption Off The Premises: A
Class F license shall authorize the retail sale of beer or wine only in
convenience and food/fuel establishments, in their original packages, for
consumption off the premises where sold. Such licenses shall be issued only
where the sale of beer or wine is not the principal product offered for sale by
the business on the premises, and only for locations which have a minimum of
one thousand (1,000) square feet of sales area on the interior of the building
located on the premises. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the total
square footage of the interior of the premises may be allocated toward the sale
of beer or wine. Only persons twenty one (21) years of age or older shall be
permitted to sell beer and wine on the premises. The annual fee for a Class F
license shall be as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      8.   Class G:
         a.   Class G licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises only and for a period of
twenty four (24) hours or less. This license shall only apply to catered
functions or special events for not-for-profit applicants and purposes. No
person, firm or organization may obtain a Class G license more than once in a
period of three hundred sixty five (365) consecutive days. No more than one
Class G license shall be issued per twenty four (24) hour period by the City.
No Class G license shall be issued in any area of the City of Sycamore that is
zoned R-1, Single-Family Residential District; R-2, Two-Family Residential
District; or R-3, Multiple-Family Residential District. Applicants shall
provide proof of obtaining a special event permit from the State of Illinois
Liquor Control Commission before the issuance of a Class G license. All
applications shall be forwarded to the Liquor Commissioner and Building
Commissioner for a recommendation on the maximum number of persons to be
allowed on the licensed premises based on the applicable provisions contained
in the Building Code adopted by the City of Sycamore. The fee for said license
shall be as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
         b.   Applicant shall provide evidence of proper dram shop insurance
issued by a company with a B+ rating or better, in a class of 7 or better. Said
insurance policy shall be nonassessable and include the following minimum
limits of coverage: bodily injury per person, one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00); bodily injury per occurrence, three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00); injury to means of support, one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) and, property damage, one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
         c.   There shall be a minimum of one Liquor Supervisor for every one
hundred (100) persons in attendance during the hours of the license. The Liquor
Supervisors shall be members of the organization holding the license. The
Liquor Supervisors shall ensure the maintenance of the public peace. Each
Liquor Supervisor shall wear an identifying badge during the hours of the
event. All badges shall identify the Liquor Supervisor and the organization. In
addition, any organization receiving a Class G license shall have one certified
alcohol server present at all times during which alcohol is served.
         d.   Any application for a Class G license for an out of doors
location shall be accompanied by a statement outlining the procedures to be
used to contain the consumption of liquor on the licensed premises only,
control littering, and provide adequate restroom facilities. The prohibition
against carrying or possessing alcoholic liquor except in the original
container with the seal unbroken in section
5-4-12 of this Code shall not apply on premises which have been issued a Class
G license under this section.
      e.   All premises licensed Class G shall have posted in a conspicuous
place at each entrance to the area where alcoholic liquor is being served and
consumed on the premises, a sign stating the following:
YOU MUST BE 21 YEARS OLD TO ENTER THESE PREMISES
      f.   The Class G license shall not be issued during Pumpkin Festival
week, i.e., the last full week of October in each year.
      9.   Class H: Class H licenses shall authorize the retail sale of beer or
wine, brewed or fermented either on the premises as a brewer or winemaker, or
off the premises if done in connection with a “winemaker retailer (second
location)” specialty retailer’s State license or Class 1 brewer’s license
(referenced hereafter as “its own beer or wine”). Class H licenses shall
authorize a winery or microbrewery to:
         a.   Furnish samples of its own beer or wine for consumption on the
premises;
         b.   Sell its own beer or wine by the glass for consumption on the
premises; and
         c.   Sell its own beer or wine in the original corked, capped, or
sealed and labeled container for consumption off the premises.
      The annual license fee for H licenses shall be seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). A Class H license holder is authorized to sell food in
conjunction with the sale of its own beer or wine for consumption on the
premises.
      10.   Class I (BYOB): Class I (BYOB) licenses shall authorize the
consumption of beer and wine which has been brought onto the premises of a
business operating as a public accommodation as defined in section 11-42-10.1
of the Illinois Municipal Code by a patron or patrons for their personal
consumption while being served a meal in said establishment. The annual license
fee for a Class I (BYOB) license shall be as set out in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
         a.   Only beer and wine may be consumed on the premises of the holder
of a Class I (BYOB) license;
         b.   The license holder is only allowed to provide glasses, ice and an
ice holder for the patrons;
         c.   The license holder, its agents, and/or its employees may open,
but shall be prohibited from serving, pouring, and/or storing any wine or beer
for its patrons;
         d.   It shall be unlawful for the license holder, its agents and/or
its employees to permit any patron to leave the licensed premises with open
wine or beer, and the license holder shall require that patrons who leave with
such of their own beer and wine that has not been consumed to do so only in
sealed or unopened containers in compliance with Illinois law;
         e.   No consumption of wine or beer shall be permitted on the premises
unless it is served as a complement to the sale of food;
         f.   A certificate of insurance, reflecting coverage for general
liability purposes in such minimum amounts as the Liquor Commissioner may deem
necessary from time to time, shall be presented to the City by the applicant
for a Class I (BYOB) establishment and the City shall be named as an additional
insured on the license holder’s insurance. The provisions of section 3-2-16 of
this chapter shall be deemed satisfied by this requirement. Further, the
license holder shall agree in writing to save and hold harmless the City’s
agents, employees elected and appointed officials from any and all claims or
causes of actions arising out of the consumption of alcoholic liquor on the
premises as a condition of the license.
      11.   Class J: Class J licenses shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises at the Sycamore Community Park Sports
Complex in conjunction with college or professional level sporting events. The
license fees for a Class J license shall be set out in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule..
         a.   Service of alcoholic liquor shall only take place during the time
that the athletic or sporting event is in progress.
      All alcoholic liquor must be consumed on the premises and must be
purchased at the concession area of the designated ballpark facility marked out
on the main baseball diamond in the Sycamore Community Park Sports Complex
(“ballpark facility area”). Alcoholic liquor may only be purchased from
authorized vendors serving the ballpark facility area, and no outside liquor
shall be brought into the ballpark facility area nor taken outside the ballpark
facility area. The ballpark facility area shall be specifically marked and
defined by fencing such that it constitutes a distinctly delineated area within
the Sycamore Community Park Sports Complex, such that access is of a controlled
nature.
      12.   Class K; Special Event: Class K licenses authorize the service of
alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises of an establishment that
obtains a special event permit per subsection E of this section. Establishments
that have a City of Sycamore liquor license or are participating in a special
event sponsored by the Sycamore Chamber of Commerce do not need to obtain a
Class K license to provide service for such events. The license fees for a
Class K license shall be set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
      13.   Class VG; Video Gaming Café: Class VG licenses authorize the retail
sale of alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises of an establishment
where video gaming is the primary purpose of the business, and the sale of
alcoholic liquor or food is incidental to video gaming. The annual fee for
Class VG licenses shall be as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
      14.   Class L; Banquet Hall: Class “L” License (Banquet Hall) shall
authorize the serving and retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises designated therein in establishments containing banquet hall
facilities and authorized for banquets as a principal use; provided that
alcoholic liquor under this license may be served and sold only to invited
guests. The annual fee for Class L licenses shall be as set out in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      15.   Class M; Tasting Room: Class "M," which shall authorize the holder
of a Class D liquor license from the city to operate a tasting room for the
sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises. It is the intention
of a Class M liquor license that the tasting room liquor license classification
shall be an amenity and an accessory use to the primary business (Class D
liquor license sales) operated by the applicant on the premises. A Class M
liquor license shall be subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
         a.   The tasting room may sell alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises in a manner intended for tasting, sampling, and evaluation purposes
but within the meaning of the definition of "licensed establishment" under 230
ILCS 40/5.
         b.   The primary Class D licensed premises may sell alcoholic liquor
as a packaged item for off-site consumption. The sale of packaged goods from
the tasting room is prohibited.
         c.   Customers may only consume the alcoholic liquor purchased in the
tasting room on premises. No customer may leave the licensed premises with open
alcohol.
         d.   The tasting room shall be limited in size to no more than five
hundred (500) square feet in total and may be segregated into multiple rooms
for separate tastings. The tasting room(s) must have a continuous, unobstructed
passage and view to the primary Class D licensed premises.
         e.   All persons serving alcoholic liquor in the tasting room for
consumption on the premises must be BASSET certified.
         f.   The tasting room shall comply with all building, fire, and other
codes of the city.
         g.   The annual fee for Class M licenses shall be two hundred and
fifty dollars ($250.00).
   B.   Hours: Unless otherwise indicated on the licensee’s license by the City
Clerk, all places where alcoholic liquor is sold shall be closed between the
hours of twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. of every
day, with the exception of Fridays and Saturdays, when the closing hour shall
be two o’clock (2:00) A.M.; and Sundays, as set forth in subsection C of this
section. In addition, all places where alcoholic liquor is sold may remain open
until three o’clock (3:00) A.M. on New Year’s Eve, and all places where
alcoholic liquor is sold shall be closed on Christmas Eve from eight o’clock
(8:00) P.M. until six o’clock (6:00) A.M. Christmas Day. It shall be unlawful
to sell alcoholic liquor or permit anyone but the licensee, his employees or
members of his family to be on the licensed premises twenty (20) minutes after
the closing hour and during the closed hours thereafter.
   C.   Sunday Operations: Any class licensee under this chapter may serve or
sell liquor as defined in their license on Sundays from ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Monday, except that during the
City's Pumpkin Festival and Fizz Ehrler Memorial Turning Back Time Car Show
weekends, service or sale of liquor may commence at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
instead of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. Licensees with package goods licenses
including Class D and Class F, will be allowed to sell liquor on Sundays from
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Sundays when
New Year's Eve, New Year's Day, Christmas Eve, or Christmas Day fall on a
Sunday.
   D.   Holidays: Any class licensee under this chapter may serve or sell
liquor as defined in their license the Wednesday before Thanksgiving from six
o’clock (6:00) A.M. until one o’clock (1:00) A.M. on Thanksgiving Day. Any
class licensee under this chapter operating during the change in time under
Daylight Savings must adhere to the time to which the time changes.
   E.   Special Events:
      1.   Outdoor Special Event Defined: An “outdoor special event” is an
outdoor public or private event sponsored by any licensed liquor establishment
upon any owned or leased premises, other than for the purpose for which said
premises are intended, arranged, designed or approved. The term “outdoor
special event” shall include any event(s) where the sale, distribution and/or
consumption of alcoholic beverages will occur outdoors within or upon any
private street, sidewalk, park, or property.
      2.   Special Event Defined: A “special event” is a public or private
event sponsored by any licensed liquor establishment upon any owned or leased
premises, other than for the purpose for which said premises are intended,
arranged, designed, or approved.
      3.   Length Of Term: A special event shall not exceed twenty four (24)
hours in duration unless otherwise approved by the Liquor Commissioner. A
special event permit shall not be issued more than three (3) times within any
one year period to any individual parcel and/or address. It is further
established that not more than one outdoor special event permit shall be issued
at any time in the Downtown Business District. Multiple special events may be
approved at the discretion of the City Manager and Liquor Commissioner.
      4.   Notification Of Property Use: To provide for the general health,
welfare, safety and comfort of the general public, any licensed liquor
establishment planning to use, or allowing to be used, any properties owned or
leased by private or public individuals, firms or corporations for purposes of
conducting a special event shall notify the City Clerk a minimum of thirty (30)
days in advance of such event.
      5.   Pumpkin Festival Weekend; Permits Prohibited: No special event
permit shall be issued for or utilized during Pumpkin Festival weekend, which
for purposes of this chapter shall begin on the Wednesday before the last full
weekend of October and end at the completion of the last full weekend of
October.
      6.   Permit Application:
         a.   Application for a special event shall be made to the City Clerk
on forms provided by the City Clerk. Said application shall be in writing,
signed by the applicant, if an individual, or duly authorized agent thereof if
a member of a club, partnership or corporation and verified by oath or
affidavit. The permit application shall be in accordance with the provisions as
established in this section.
         b.   The City Clerk shall forward the application to the City Manager
or his designee, who shall obtain comments from the various departments of the
City and other applicable regulatory agencies as deemed appropriate, and
forward any required revisions, considerations, conditions or comments to the
applicant. It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to amend, delete, add or
alter any conditions as prescribed by the City which are deemed necessary to
comply with the ordinances set forth in this Code. It is further the
responsibility of the applicant to resubmit a revised plan to the City Manager
or his designee for final consideration.
         c.   Upon receipt of an application, the review period for approval or
denial shall not exceed ten (10) working days unless otherwise agreed to in
writing by the applicant. A recommendation from appropriate City staff will be
forwarded to the Liquor Commissioner, to grant, condition or deny the
application. In the event an application is denied, it shall be the
responsibility of the Liquor Commissioner to provide documentation to the
applicant outlining the reason(s) for denial as well as any condition or
conditions which can be amended by the applicant to facilitate issuance of an
outdoor special event permit.
         d.   Accompanying each application shall be:
            (1)   A plot plan showing the lot or tract of land where the event
will be held, including any existing or proposed structure (including accessory
structures) thereon, location of existing or proposed easements, fire lanes,
parking arrangements and vehicle access points, electrical supply sources,
location of portable fire extinguishers, location of refuse and portable
restroom facilities, any existing as well as proposed screening or barricading,
and a detailed description of available means of egress or temporary alteration
thereof.
            (2)   Name, address and phone number of all responsible parties
conducting, supervising and/or sponsoring a special event.
            (3)   Proof of insurance (dram shop, liability, etc.) as may be
required.
            (4)   Letters of permission by any property owner affected that may
necessitate the acquisition of temporary easements, use of leased land or as
otherwise required.
            (5)   Building permit applications shall be submitted and signed by
licensed and bonded contractors (where required) in accordance with Code
provisions. Provide a detail of any temporary or permanent changes, additions
and/or deletions to any structural, electrical, mechanical or plumbing systems
necessary to conduct an outdoor special event.
            (6)   Hours of operation of the outdoor special event.
            (7)   A detailed description of the hours of operation of any
proposed live entertainment activities.
      7.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any licensed liquor
establishment to conduct an outdoor special event within the corporate
boundaries of the City without having first secured a permit as prescribed in
this section for such activity. Said permittee shall be responsible for
compliance with this Code and all other applicable County, State and Federal
regulations.
      8.   Permit Fee: The permit fee for a special event shall be a cashier’s
check, cash or money order in the amount as set out in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. In addition, a deposit as set out in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule will be required for signage, fencing,
barricades, cleanup, or any additional City services required.
      9.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon approval by the Liquor Commissioner, said
permit shall be issued by the City Clerk. Said permit shall be valid for thirty
(30) days or as otherwise approved by the Liquor Commissioner.
      10.   Permit Denial Or Revocation: A special event permit application may
be denied or be revoked if:
         a.   The validity of the information provided by the applicant is
incomplete or fraudulent;
         b.   The outdoor special event is found to be not in compliance with
the ordinances of the City, County, State and/or Federal laws;
         c.   The management, owner or duly authorized agent (permittee)
conducts, maintains or allows to exist conditions or violations prohibited by
any/all locally adopted Building Codes or this Code; or, allows activities upon
the permitted premises which are unlawful or which constitute or may constitute
a public nuisance, a breach of the peace, or which are a menace to the health,
safety or general welfare of the public;
         d.   The applicant, owner or permittee is a defaulter of the City;
         e.   Any lien of the City (i.e., garbage or rubbish removal, weed
abatement, etc.) exists upon the property where the outdoor special event is to
occur.
      11.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
this section shall be fined as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
   F.   Outdoor Restaurant Liquor Sales:
      1.   Subject to the approval of the Liquor Commissioner, the sale,
service and consumption of alcoholic liquor in an outdoor seating area shall be
permitted adjacent to premises licensed to sell alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The outdoor area is enclosed with a non-barricade type fence or
other barrier that allows viewing of the area from the street;
         b.   The outdoor area is owned or leased by the licensee;
         c.   The outdoor area is included as part of the regular food service
business located on the licensed premises and alcoholic beverages may be served
without food;
         d.   Access to the outdoor area shall be limited through the licensed
premises, or, if not practicable, through monitored entrances that are
controlled by employees and/or reasonable fencing of the licensed premises
during all operating hours and/or while alcohol is being served;
         e.   Seating in the outdoor area shall not be included to meet the
required guest seating capacity for any license classification as established
in this chapter;
         f.   A sidewalk cafe license as provided in section
7-1-18 of this Code shall be required for any outdoor seating area conducted
wholly or partially upon City controlled property;
         g.   Music may be played in the outdoor area, but may not exceed
ordinance limits;
         h.   The hours of outside operation shall be restricted as follows:
            (1)   During weekends, hours of permitted operation shall terminate
one hour prior to normal closing time as otherwise defined in subsection B of
this section.
            (2)   Except as restricted hereinabove, permitted hours shall be as
otherwise provided for in subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2018.11, 3-4-
2019, eff. 5-1-2019; amd. Ord. 2019.56, 4-20-2020; Ord. 2022.12, 10-17-2022;
Ord. 2022.34, 4-17-2023; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023; Ord. 2023.12, 7-17-2023; Ord.
2023.18, 11-6-2023)
3-2-7: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   Maximum Number Of Licenses:
      1.   Class A; Restaurants: No limitation except as provided under section
3-2-1 of this chapter.
      2.   Class B; Bars: A maximum of ten (10) for the first 12,100 in
population. Thereafter, one Class B license shall be authorized for each 3,000
in population. By a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the Corporate Authorities, the
proration of licenses by population may be waived to accommodate an application
for a new bar license.
      3.   Class C; Clubs: No limitation.
      4.   Class D; Package Goods: No limitation.
      5.   Class E; Recreation:
         a.   Bowling Alley: There shall be no more than two (2) Class E
licenses for each 15,000 in population which shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquors for consumption on or off the premises of an operating
bowling alley.
         b.   18-Hole Golf Course: No limitation.
         c.   Theater: No limitation.
      6.   Class F: No limitation.
      7.   Class G: The number of Class G licenses in any given year shall be
governed by the provisions of section
3-2-6 of this chapter.
      8.   Class H; Homebrewing Suppliers And Wineries: No limitation.
      9.   Class I (BYOB): No limitation.
      10.   Class J: No limitation.
      11.   Class K: No limitation.
      12.   Class VG; Video Gaming Cafe: A maximum of four (4) for the first
17,500 in population. Thereafter, one Class VG license shall be authorized for
each 4,375 in population. By a three- fourths (3/4) vote of the Corporate
Authorities, the proration of licenses by population may be waived to
accommodate an application for a new video gaming license.
      13.   Class L: No limitation.
      14.   Class M: No limitation.
   B.   Exception For Existing Licenses: The limitation on the number of
licenses herein provided shall not affect licenses in existence at the
effective date hereof. However, all existing licenses shall be retitled as per
the provisions of section
3-2-6 of this chapter and the number of existing licenses shall be counted in
determining the issuance of future licenses. (Ord. 2018.11, 3-4-2019, eff. 5-1-
2019)
3-2-8: TERM OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEE:
Each license shall terminate on December 31 next following its issuance. The
annual license fee set forth in section
3-2-6 of this chapter shall be paid in advance and there shall be no refund of
any portion of the same; except that the annual license fee to be paid shall be
reduced in proportion to the full calendar months which have expired if a new
application is approved after February 1 of a particular year. (Ord. 2018.11,
3-4-2019, eff. 5-1-2019; amd. Ord. 2023.18, 11-6-2023)
3-2-9: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof; provided, he/she
is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such renewal
license is sought are suitable for such purpose. (Ord. 2018.11, 3-4-2019, eff.
5-1-2019)
3-2-10: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   Personal Privilege: A license shall be a purely personal privilege good
for and not to exceed one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as is
provided in this chapter and shall not constitute property nor shall it be
subject to attachment, garnishment or execution nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated.
   B.   Sale Of Corporate Or LLC Interest: When the licensee is a corporation
or limited liability company, the license shall terminate whenever fifty
percent (50%) or more of the ownership interest therein changes from that shown
on the original license application. In such event, the corporation or limited
liability company, through its officers, members or manager as the case may be,
must make application for the issuance of a new license as provided herein;
provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not apply where
the transfer of an ownership interest is made to an owner shown on the original
license application who owned fifty percent (50%) or more of the ownership
interest of such corporation or limited liability company at the time the
original application was filed with the City.
   C.   Death, Bankruptcy Or Insolvency: Such licenses shall not descend by the
laws of testate or intestate devolution, but shall cease upon the death of the
licensee; provided, that executors or administrators of the estate of any
deceased licensee and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when
such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of
the sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate
court and may exercise the privilege of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt
licensee after the death of such decedent or such insolvency or bankruptcy,
until the expiration of such license but no longer than twelve (12) months
after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
   D.   Refund: A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid
for any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under
such license in accordance with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 2018.11,
3-4-2019, eff. 5-1-2019)
3-2-11: BUILDING AND LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school (other than an
institution of higher learning), hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or
for veterans, their spouses or children or any military or naval station,
provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant
service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other
places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried
on, if such place of business so exempted shall have been established for such
purposes prior to the effective date hereof; nor to the renewal of a license
for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within one hundred feet
(100') of any church or school where such church or school has been established
within such one hundred feet (100') since the issuance of the original license.
In the case of a church, the distance of one hundred feet (100') shall be
measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship services or
education programs and not to property boundaries.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a
church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales
are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquors. (Ord. 2018.11, 3-4-2019, eff. 5-1-2019)
3-2-12: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Change Of Location: A liquor dealer's license shall permit the sale of
alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the application and license.
Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change
issued by the Liquor Commissioner. No change of location shall be permitted
unless the proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor under the Statutes of this State and the ordinances of the
City.
   B.   Change In Name: A liquor license that changes the name of the
establishment but does not change the location or ownership shall, within
thirty (30) days of the change, notify the Local Liquor Commissioner and pay a
fee as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. The Local
Liquor Commissioner shall issue a local liquor license in the new name, cause
the new local liquor license to be available, and take possession of the local
liquor license for the prior name upon the turning over of the new local liquor
license to the licensee.
   C.   Change In Personnel:
      1.   Any changes in partnerships, officers, directors, persons holding
directly or beneficially more than five percent (5%) of the stock or ownership
interest, or managers of establishments licensed under this chapter, shall be
reported in writing to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner within ten (10)
days of the change. All new personnel shall meet the standards of this chapter
and must otherwise qualify to hold a local liquor license. All such changes in
personnel shall be subject to review by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
within thirty (30) days of the change.
      2.   When a license has been issued to a partnership and a change of
ownership occurs resulting in a partnership interest by one who is not eligible
to hold a liquor license, said license shall terminate.
      3.   When a license has been issued to a corporation and a change takes
place in officers, directors, managers, or shareholders of more than five
percent (5%) of the stock, resulting in the holding of office or such shares of
stock by one who is not eligible for a license, said license shall terminate.
      4.   When a license has been issued to an individual who is no longer
eligible for a license, said license shall terminate.
      5.   All owners and managers in charge of a local liquor licensed
establishment shall at all times be declared with such person(s) or entity
names being on record with the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and the Chief
of Police. At the discretion of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, the new
owner or manager may also be subject to a background and fingerprint check.
   D.   Peddling: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the City.
   E.   View From Street:
      1.   Clear View Required: In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption upon the premises is licensed (other than in
restaurants, hotel or club), no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or
thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed
premises nor inside such premises, which shall serve to prevent a clear view
into the interior of such licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk
at all times, and no booth, screen, partition or other obstruction nor any
arrangement of lights or lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior
of such premises which shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such
premises, and the entire space used by the public must be so located that there
shall be a full view of the same from the street, road or sidewalk. All rooms
where alcoholic liquor is sold for consumption on the premises shall be
continually lighted during business hours by natural or artificial white light,
so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible.
      2.   Enforcement: In order to enforce the provisions of this subsection
E, the Mayor shall have the right to require the filing with him/her of plans,
drawings and photographs showing the clearance of the view as above required.
      3.   Revocation For Violation: In case the view into any such licensed
premises required by the foregoing provisions shall be willfully obscured by
the licensee, or by him/her willfully suffered to be obscured or obstructed,
such license may be revoked in the manner herein provided.
   F.   Gambling: There shall be no card games or gambling allowed on any
premises licensed to sell alcoholic liquor except as authorized under sections
5-4-3 and
5-4-3-1 of this Code.
   G.   Election Days: All licensed alcoholic liquor dealers shall henceforth
be authorized to sell at retail on the day of any national, State, County or
Municipal election, including primary elections. (Ord. 2018.11, 3-4-2019, eff.
5-1-2019; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-2-13: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
All premises used for the sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage of such
liquor for sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be
kept in full compliance with the ordinances regulating the condition of
premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption. (Ord.
2018.11, 3-4-2019, eff. 5-1-2019)
3-2-14: MINORS:
   A.   Warning To Minors: Every licensee shall display at all times a printed
card in a prominent place which shall be supplied by the City Clerk and which
shall read substantially as follows:
Warning to Minors - You are subject to a fine up to five hundred dollars
($500.00) under the ordinances of the City of Sycamore if you purchase
alcoholic liquor, or misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic liquor.
   B.   Loitering: It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor
dealer's license or his agent or employee to suffer or permit any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years to remain in any room or compartment adjoining
or adjacent to or situated in the room or place where such licensed premises
are located; provided, that this subsection shall not apply to any person under
the age of twenty one (21) who is accompanied by his parent or guardian or to
any licensed premises which derives its principal business from the sale of
service or other commodities than alcoholic liquor.
   C.   Sales To Persons Under The Age Of Twenty One Years: It shall be
unlawful to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years.
   D.   Employment Of Persons Under The Age Of Twenty One Years: It shall be
unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to attend any
bar or to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail
premises; provided, however, that a lineal descendant of a holder of a retail
license for consumption of alcohol on premises issued prior to October 15,
2001, who is at least eighteen (18) years of age may tend, draw, pour or mix
alcoholic liquor if supervised by an employee or license holder who is at least
twenty one (21) years of age. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to sell at retail any alcoholic liquor in any licensed
retail premises; provided, however, that wait staff in any establishment
licensed for consumption on premises where food is served who are eighteen (18)
years of age or more may serve alcoholic beverages to customers for consumption
on premises and perform all other reasonable and necessary acts in the course
of their employment. (Ord. 2018.11, 3-4-2019, eff. 5-1-2019)
3-2-15: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The Mayor may, in accordance with the law and the provisions of the
Liquor Control Act of 1934 1 , as amended, revoke or suspend any liquor
dealer’s license for any violation of any provision of this chapter or for any
violation of any State law or regulation pertaining to the sale of alcoholic
liquor. In addition to or in lieu of a suspension, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may levy a fine on the licensee for such violations. The fine
imposed shall be set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   There may be a cap on fines imposed against any licensee during the period
of his license as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
Proceeds from fines shall be paid into the General Corporate Fund of the City
Treasury. However, no such license shall be so revoked or suspended and no
license shall be fined except after a public hearing before the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, with a three-day written notice to the licensee,
affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. Further, in the
event that the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall find a licensee guilty
of violating any provision of this chapter, he/she may order the licensee to
pay to the City reasonable attorney fees incurred by the City, the Chief of
Police, and the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and other reasonable costs,
including but not limited to the costs of court reporter fees and witness fees
incurred by reason of the hearing.
   B.   If the Local Liquor Control Commissioner has reason to believe that any
continued operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten
the welfare of the community, he/she may, upon issuance of a written order
stating the reason for such conclusions, and without notice of hearing, order
the licensed premises closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the
licensee an opportunity to be heard during that period. If the licensee is also
engaged in another business on the licensed premises, such order shall not be
applicable to such other business.
   C.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall within five (5) days after
such hearing, if he/she determines after such hearing that the license should
be revoked or suspended, or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason
for such determination in a written order of revocation or suspension and serve
a copy of such order within the five (5) days upon the licensee.
   D.   When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no local liquor
license shall be granted to any person for the period of one year thereafter
for the conduct of the business of selling alcoholic liquor in the premises
described in the revoked license unless the revocation order has been vacated
or was entered as to the licensee only and the new licensee is not in any way
related to the revoked license.
   E.   Review of the decisions of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall
be as provided for in section 7-9 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act 2 . (Ord.
2018.11, 3-4-2019, eff. 5-1-2019; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
 
Notes
1 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
2 235 ILCS 5/7-9
3-2-16: DRAMSHOP INSURANCE:
No license shall be granted or renewed to an applicant until such applicant
shall furnish evidence satisfactory to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
that such applicant is covered by a policy of dram shop insurance issued by a
responsible insurance company authorized and licensed to do business in the
State of Illinois insuring such applicant against liability which such
applicant may incur under the provisions of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
21.
Applicant shall provide evidence of proper dram shop insurance issued by a
company with a B+ rating or better, in a class of 7 or better. Said insurance
policy shall be nonassessable and include the following minimum limits of
coverage: bodily injury per person, one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00);
bodily injury per occurrence, three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00);
injury to means of support, one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00); and,
property damage, one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). (Ord. 2018.11, 3-
4-2019, eff. 5-1-2019)
3-2-17: BASSET TRAINING:
It shall be the duty of every licensee to require their officers, associates,
members, representatives, agents, or any employee who sells, gives, oversees,
or delivers alcoholic liquor or beverages to be trained and certified by the
Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and Training Program (BASSET),
licensed and administered by the State of Illinois Liquor Control Commission.
Further, BASSET training and certification shall be a prerequisite to the
issuance of local liquor licenses. It shall be the duty of the Local Liquor
Commissioner to notify all licensed holders and persons making application for
a license of this requirement. BASSET verification must be made available upon
request and files indicating BASSET training shall be maintained on-site of
every licensee. (Ord. 2018.11, 3-4-2019, eff. 5-1-2019)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Application Of Provisions
3-3-2: License Required
3-3-3: Application For License; Fees
3-3-4: Street Shows
3-3-5: Athletic Exhibitions
3-3-6: Inspection Of Amusement Premises
3-3-7: Obscene Shows
3-3-8: Smoking
3-3-9: Exit Lights
3-3-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter, except as to licensing and fees, shall apply to
all public shows, theatricals, dances, circuses and other amusements in the
city, whether specifically licensed in another article of this chapter or not.
(1988 Code §11.101)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any amusement which is open to the
public for admittance to which a fee is charged, without having first secured a
license therefor; provided, that the provisions of this section shall not be
held to apply to those amusements which are specifically licensed by any other
ordinance of the city. (1988 Code §11.102)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEES:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the clerk and shall comply with
all of the general provisions of the ordinances relating to such application.
For such licenses, the following fees shall be as set out in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule:
   A.   Carnivals and circuses;
   B.   Exhibitions of inanimate objects; and
   C.   Other amusements, including dances. (1988 Code § 11.102; amd. Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-3-4: STREET SHOWS:
No permit shall be granted or given for any carnival, exhibition, show, dance
or other amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk or in such
place that the only main accommodation for the public or the audience will be
in a public place, except on authorization of the city council and only after
payment of the fee prescribed therefor. (1988 Code §11.103)
3-3-5: ATHLETIC EXHIBITIONS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to conduct, operate or exhibit
any race between persons, animals or vehicles or any baseball games, boxing or
wrestling matches or any other athletic contest or exhibition for admission to
which a fee is charged without having first procured a license therefor.
   B.   Police: Sufficient members of the police department shall be admitted
free of charge to all such exhibitions for the purpose of preserving and
maintaining order.
   C.   Fire Danger: It shall be unlawful to permit or gather such a crowd to
witness any such amusement or show as to create a dangerous condition because
of fire. (1988 Code §11.104)
3-3-6: INSPECTION OF AMUSEMENT PREMISES:
It shall be the duty of the chief of police and fire chief to see that every
exhibition, amusement, theatrical or other public show or amusement is
inspected by a member of the police and fire departments and to ensure
conformity with the provisions concerning such amusements. (1988 Code §11.105)
3-3-7: OBSCENE SHOWS:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this Section, "obscene" shall be
defined as appealing solely to prurient interests, with no redeeming social
importance whatsoever and advertised for in such a sordid manner as to appeal
solely to said prurient interests.
   B.   Unlawful Exhibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person to present,
exhibit, conduct or take part in any obscene theatrical, play, motion picture,
exhibition or other form of public amusement or show.
   C.   Nuisance Declared: Said obscene public amusements shall be considered
so offensive as to constitute public nuisances, with the provisions of the
nuisance ordinances applicable accordingly 1 . (1988 Code §11.106)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 4, Chapter 3 of this Code for nuisance provisions.
3-3-8: SMOKING:
   A.   Smoking Restricted: It shall be unlawful to smoke or carry a lighted
cigar, cigarette or pipe on or beneath the stage or in a dressing room of any
building used as an assembly hall with seating accommodations for more than one
hundred (100) persons or in which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures or
other entertainments are offered, presented, operated or exhibited. (1988 Code
§11.107)
   B.   Signs: It shall be the duty of the owner of such premises or of the
occupant in charge to provide and place printed signs on which the words "No
Smoking" shall appear in letters at least four inches (4") high, in conspicuous
places, at least two (2) signs being upon the stage or in the wings thereof and
one in each dressing room. (1988 Code §11.108)
3-3-9: EXIT LIGHTS:
It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant in charge of any building or hall
used as an assembly hall with accommodations for one hundred (100) persons or
more in which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures and other entertainment
is offered, operated or presented to, to provide and place a sign on which the
word "EXIT" shall appear in letters at least six inches (6") high, over every
door or other opening from such hall to every means of egress therefrom, and a
light shall be provided with a red globe and placed at or over such sign, which
light shall be kept burning during the entire period that the hall is open to
the public and until the audience has left the hall. (1988 Code §11.109)
ARTICLE A. RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Application for License
3-3A-2: Restrictions on Issuance of Licenses
3-3A-3: Conduct of Raffles
3-3A-4: Accounting and Records
3-3A-5: Denial of License; Appeal
3-3A-6: Violation and Penalties
3-3A-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application shall be made to the Mayor ten (10) days prior to any ticket sales
and shall be signed under oath by the president of the organization and
attested by the secretary and contain the following:
   A.   Approximate value of all prizes to be awarded.
   B.   Approximate value of largest prize to be awarded.
   C.   Maximum price for each raffle ticket.
   D.   Maximum number of tickets to be sold.
   E.   Description of area and date for ticket sales.
   F.   Time and place of awarding of prizes.
   G.   Statement of not-for-profit character of the organization.
   H.   Name of company and amount of fidelity bond guaranteeing the
organization's membership of the raffle manager's fidelity (this may be waived
by a certification of unanimous consent of the organization's membership).
(1988 Code §11.110)
3-3A-2: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSES:
The following are ineligible for licenses:
   A.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony.
   B.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter.
   C.   Any person who is not of good moral character.
   D.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsections A, B
or C above has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest or in which such a
person is active or employed.
   E.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections A, B or C
above is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not.
   F.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections A, B or C
above is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle as defined
in this Article. (1988 Code §11.110)
3-3A-3: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   B.   No person, except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization,
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   C.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   D.   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning chance
or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed under
this Article.
   E.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   F.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years
may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only when
accompanied by his parent or guardian. (1988 Code §11.110)
3-3A-4: ACCOUNTING AND RECORDS:
   A.   Records Required: Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and
chances shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for
each single gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All
deductions from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be
documented with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description
of the purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction and the
recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee,
purpose, amount and date of payment.
   B.   Separate Accounts: Gross receipts from the operation of raffles
programs shall be segregated from other revenues of the organization, including
bingo gross receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit
organization pursuant to license therefor issued by the Department of Revenue
of the State, and placed in a separate account.
   C.   Separate Records: Each organization shall have separate records of its
raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds
from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for
other revenues of the organization.
   D.   Report to Members: Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall
report monthly to its membership and to the licensing local unit of government,
its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles and the distribution
of net proceeds itemized as required in this Section.
   E.   Preservation of Records; Public Inspection: Records required by this
Section shall be preserved for three (3) years, and organizations shall make
available their records relating to operation of raffles for public inspection
at reasonable times and places. (1988 Code §11.110)
3-3A-5: DENIAL OF LICENSE; APPEAL:
Organizations aggrieved by denial of a license may appeal to the City Council
by filing a letter of appeal with the City Clerk within ten (10) days of denial
by the Mayor. (1988 Code §11.110)
3-3A-6: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation of the terms of this Article, of 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes, "gambling" or of any other criminal law, on the premises where a
raffle is occurring shall result in immediate revocation of a license by the
Mayor in accordance with due process and violators shall be subject to
prosecution under State law as a Class C misdemeanor 1 .
   B.   In addition, violators shall be subject to penalty as provided in the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code §11.110; amd. 1994 Code;
Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
 
Notes
1 S.H.A. 730 ILCS 5/5-1-14.
ARTICLE B. COIN-OPERATED MACHINES; GAME ROOMS
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Definitions
3-3B-2: License Required; Qualifications
3-3B-3: Restriction On Licenses
3-3B-4: License Application Fee
3-3B-5: Application For License
3-3B-6: Term Of License
3-3B-7: Hours
3-3B-8: Alcoholic Beverages
3-3B-9: Location
3-3B-10: Suppliers
3-3B-11: Operation
3-3B-12: License Suspension Or Revocation Period
3-3B-13: Penalties
3-3B-14: Exemptions
3-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this Article regulating coin-operated machines:
   ATTENDANT: Any person acting for and in behalf of an operator or game room
licensee.
   COIN-OPERATED MACHINE: Any machine which, upon the insertion of coin, slug,
token, plate, or disk, may be operated by the public generally for use as a
game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not registering a score. This
includes, but is not limited to, such machines as coin-operated pool tables,
marble machines, pin-ball machines, electronic video games, skee ball,
mechanical grab machines, and all games which are electronic or electronically
operated, with the exception of juke boxes or cigarette machines.
   OPERATOR: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association engaged
in the business of distributing, placing, leasing, or selling "machines" as
defined herein with an agreement to maintain, service, or supply such machines
to any premises located within the City where such machines are operated for
commercial purposes. Commercial purposes shall have its generally understood
meaning and shall include, without limitation, an intent to operate the coin-
operated machines for gain or profit.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, or association which owns any coin-
operated machines, the person, firm, corporation, or association in whose place
of business any such machine is placed for use by the public and the person,
firm, corporation, or association having control over such machine. (Ord.
94.25, 12-12-94)
3-3B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; QUALIFICATIONS:
An annual fee for each calendar year is hereby imposed upon all coin-operated
machines operated for commercial purposes within the City. The amount of said
fee will be as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. The
coin-operated machines fee shall be paid by the owner of such machines to the
City Clerk. The City Clerk shall issue as evidence of payment of said fee an
adhesive emblem to be placed on each machine. Such emblem shall bear the words
as prescribed by the City. It shall be unlawful for any person to mutilate said
sticker during the year for which it was issued. It shall be unlawful for the
owner or lessee of any premises or person in control of such premises to permit
the installation or use of said coin-operated machines within the City unless
the fee has been paid and is evidenced by a sticker affixed to the machine.
Each such machine shall be plainly labeled with the name, address, and
telephone number of its owner. No person shall keep or display for operation or
patronage by the public within the City any coin-operated machines without
first having obtained a license therefor from the City Clerk. Said applications
shall be filed with the City Clerk and contain the following information:
   A.   If the applicant is a corporation:
      1.   Corporate name and address.
      2.   Names, dates of birth, and addresses of corporate officers and
directors.
      3.   Statement of principle kind of business in which corporation
engages.
      4.   Statement of whether corporate business will be conducted by a
manager, and the name, address, and authority of any such manager or agent.
      5.   Names, dates of birth, and addresses of all persons, firms and
organizations owning of record five percent (5%) or more of the corporation's
stock.
      6.   Statement of whether any officer, manager, director, or share holder
owning five percent (5%) or more of the stock of the corporation has ever been
convicted of a felony or has ever forfeited an appearance bond on a felony
charge.
      7.   The location of the place of business in the place where the coin-
operated machines is to be kept or displayed.
      8.   Statement of personal history of the manager or agent conducting
business for the corporation.
   B.   If the applicant is an individual or partnership:
      1.   Name and address and date of birth of applicant.
      2.   Location of place of business.
      3.   Principal kind of business engaged in.
      4.   Statement of whether business will be conducted by a manager or
agent and the name, address and date of birth of any such manager or agent.
      5.   The place where the coin-operated amusement machines are to be
displayed and a description of the machines.
      6.   Statement of personal history of manager or agent conducting
business for the applicant. (Ord. 94.25, 12-12-94; amd. Ord. 94.45, 4-17-95;
Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-3B-3: RESTRICTION ON LICENSES:
No licenses for coin-operated machines shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of the County of DeKalb at the time of
filing application for license;
   B.   Any person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides;
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of Illinois;
   E.   A Person who has been convicted of being a keeper or is keeping a house
of ill fame;
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   G.   A person whose license issued under this Article has been revoked for
cause;
   H.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of a new license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   I.   A co-partnership, unless all the members of such co- partnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license;
   J.   A corporation if any officer, manager, or director thereof, or any
stock holder or stockholders holding in the aggregate more than five percent
(5%) of the stock of such cooperation would not be eligible to receive a
license for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the County;
   K.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of a
licensee;
   L.   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued;
   M.   Any law-enforcing public official, any mayor, alderman, or member of
the City Council or any commission of said City, or any president or member of
a County board; and no such official shall be interested in any way, either
directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of any coin-
operated machine. (Ord. 94.25, 12-12-94)
3-3B-4: LICENSE APPLICATION FEE:
The application fee for said license shall be as set out in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule, and shall be a one time fee that is paid on
application. Any business currently operating coin-operated machines, shall be
exempt from the provisions requiring this fee. (Ord. 94.25, 12-12-94; amd. Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-3B-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for a machine operator's license shall be referred to the Chief
of Police for investigation and verification of the facts stated therein, and
the business methods of the operator. Unless the Chief of Police shall find
that the operator has been convicted of a felony or that he has violated any
law or ordinance imposing any fee, or if either the owner or operator has
employed illegal measures to promote the use of his machines or that the place
where said machines are to be used is not qualified under the provisions of
this Article, he shall return the application to the Clerk with his approval;
otherwise, he shall return it with the statement of his reasons for refusing to
approve the application. (Ord. 94.25, 12-12-94)
3-3B-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
Licenses shall be issued upon payment of fees and said licenses shall expire on
December 31 of the year in which it is issued, shall be nontransferable, and
shall be valid only for the premises and location indicated on the application.
The licenses shall be visibly displayed on the machines. (Ord. 94.25, 12-12-94)
3-3B-7: HOURS:
Unless the premises has a properly issued license to serve alcohol, hours of
operation shall be from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. through twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight, Monday through Saturday, and Sunday from two o'clock (2:00) P.M.
until ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. If the premises has a properly issued license to
serve alcohol, the hours shall be as set in the Liquor License Article. (Ord.
94.25, 12-12-94)
3-3B-8: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
Unless the premises has a properly issued license to serve alcohol, no
alcoholic beverages shall be allowed on the premises. In no event, shall a
person in an intoxicated condition be allowed on the premises. (Ord. 94.25, 12-
12-94)
3-3B-9: LOCATION:
No portion of the licensed premises may be located within one hundred feet
(100') of any school or church. (Ord. 94.25, 12-12-94)
3-3B-10: SUPPLIERS:
Upon written demand of the Mayor of the City, the names and addresses of all
suppliers of machines shall be promptly disclosed. In addition, the serial
numbers and point of origin of machines shall be disclosed upon request. (Ord.
94.25, 12-12-94)
3-3B-11: OPERATION:
Machines shall be mechanically sound, shall operate safely, and shall not be
obscene within the meaning of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20, and shall
not operate so as to violate any City, State or Federal gambling law or any
other City, State or Federal ordinance or law. The licensed premises should
comply with requirements of the City Building Code, and be subject to
inspection by the Building Commissioner. (Ord. 94.25, 12-12-94)
3-3B-12: LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION PERIOD:
Nothing in the provisions of this Article shall preclude the right of the Mayor
to suspend or revoke the license of the licensee, as follows:
   A.   The Mayor may temporarily suspend any license issued under the terms of
this Article when he has reason to believe that the continued operation of a
particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the
community or create an eminent danger of violation of applicable law. In such
case, he may upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for such
determination and without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises closed
for not more than seven (7) days; provided that the licensee shall be given an
opportunity to be heard at a public hearing during the seven (7) day period;
and further provided that such licensee is also engaged in the conduct of other
businesses on the licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such
other businesses.
   B.   The Mayor may suspend the license of any person if he or his manager
ceases to be a resident of the County of DeKalb. The owner must notify the
Chief of Police within twenty four (24) hours after he or his manager ceases to
be a resident of the County.
   C.   The Mayor may suspend or revoke any license issued under the terms of
this Article upon due notice to the licensee of the time and place of a public
hearing, and if the Mayor determines upon hearing that the licensee has failed
or refused to comply with the terms of this Article, has failed or refused to
comply with other law applicable to the business of keeping or providing coin-
operated machines, or has been convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction
of a violation of any provision of this Article.
   D.   The Mayor may suspend or revoke any licenses issued under the terms of
this Article upon due notice to the licensee of the time and place of public
hearing and if the Mayor determines upon hearing that the licensee has obtained
a license by fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license, if the manager or licensee is convicted of any
felony, if the licensee fails to pay any fine of penalty owing to the City, or
if the premises is involved in two (2) or more disturbances within a ninety
(90) day period or two (2) or more incidences involving injury or bodily harm
to patrons, bystanders, or police officers within a ninety (90) day period; and
provided, that the Mayor finds, upon the recommendation of the Chief of Police,
that as a result of said disturbances or incidences involving injury or bodily
harm, a public nuisance exists endangering the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of Sycamore.
Such revocation or suspension, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution in a
position of other penalties. (Ord. 94.25, 12-12-94)
3-3B-13: PENALTIES:
Violation of the terms of this Article shall be punishable by a fine as set out
in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule, and each day said violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. Nothing contained herein shall
preclude the City from seeking any other remedy including an injunction. (Ord.
94.25, 12-12-94; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-3B-14: EXEMPTIONS:
The requirements of this Article shall not be applied to any organization
operating on a not-for-profit basis. (Ord. 94.25, 12-12-94)
ARTICLE C. BILLIARD AND POOL HALLS
SECTION:
3-3C-1: License Required; Application
3-3C-2: License Fees
3-3C-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
No person shall operate, maintain or conduct a billiard, pool or bagatelle or
pigeon hole table open to the public without having first obtained a license
therefor as is herein required. All applications for such licenses shall state
thereon the intended location of the place of business and the number of tables
to be used therein; provided, that this Article shall not apply to electronic
games defined in Section
3-3B-1 of this Chapter. (1988 Code §11.201)
3-3C-2: LICENSE FEES:
The annual fees for any such licenses shall be as set out in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code §11.202; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
ARTICLE D. BOWLING ALLEYS 1
SECTION:
3-3D-1: License Required; Application
3-3D-2: License Fees
 
Notes
  1. See sections
1 3-2-6 and
  3-2-7 of this title for liquor licensing provisions.
3-3D-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
No person shall operate or maintain a bowling alley open to the public without
having first secured a license therefor as is herein required. Applications for
such licenses shall be made to the clerk and shall be in writing and state
thereon the intended location of the place of business and the number of alleys
to be used. (1988 Code §11.301)
3-3D-2: LICENSE FEES:
The annual fee for such licenses shall be as set out in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code §11.302; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
ARTICLE E. MOTION PICTURES AND THEATERS
SECTION:
3-3E-1: License Required; Fees; Exceptions
3-3E-2: Application for License
3-3E-3: Building Requirements
3-3E-4: Safety Regulations
3-3E-5: Inspections
3-3E-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   License Required; Exception: It shall be unlawful to give, present or
conduct any motion picture or theatrical, for admission to which a fee is
charged, excepting performances given solely for the benefit of and under the
supervision of a nonprofit, charitable or educational or religious entity,
without having first secured a license therefor as is herein provided.
   B.   Annual License and Fee:
      1.   Any person may secure an annual license for motion pictures or
theatricals, naming a specific place or building where the performances are to
be presented and may present therein any number of performances, including
theatricals, during the year for which the license was secured without having
to pay any additional fee.
      2.   The annual fee for any such license shall be as set out in the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   C.   Single Performance Fees: For motion pictures or theatricals, which are
to be presented in premises which are not covered by such license fees pursuant
to subsection A hereof, the fee to be paid as set out in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule; provided, that no such motion picture or theatrical
shall be presented in or on any premises or building which does not fully
comply with the requirements of the ordinances for the construction or
maintenance of buildings for this purpose 1 . (1988 Code §§ 11.501, 11.503, and
11.504; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-3-3 of this Title.
3-3E-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for such licenses shall be made in conformance with the general
provisions relating to such applications 1  and shall state, in addition to the
other information required, the place of the intended performance and the
seating capacity thereof. (1988 Code §11.502)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-3-3 of this Title.
3-3E-3: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to present any public motion picture in any building or
structure which does not contain the number of exits required by the ordinances
of the City or by the statutes of the State concerning buildings or places
intended for motion picture performances or in premises in which the electric
wiring does not fully comply with the ordinances. All places used for the
exhibition of theatricals must be kept adequately ventilated during the
performance and for so long a time as the audience remains therein. (1988 Code
§11.507)
3-3E-4: SAFETY REGULATIONS:
   A.   Obstructions and Crowding: It shall be unlawful to permit any person,
excepting ushers or other theater employees, to remain standing in a hall or
room in which a motion picture is presented during the time of such performance
and it shall be unlawful to admit to any such hall more persons than can be
accommodated by the seating arrangements for the premises. (1988 Code §11.505)
   B.   Exits: It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of
any aisles, corridors or exits leading from the room or enclosure in which a
motion picture performance or theatrical is being given or in which an audience
for such a performance is gathered. (1988 Code §11.508)
   C.   Scenery: It shall be unlawful to use any scenery in any theater other
than nonflammable scenery or such as shall have been rendered nonflammable by
the application of fire preventive coatings. (1988 Code §11.506)
3-3E-5: INSPECTIONS:
Premises in or on which motion pictures or theatricals are presented shall be
inspected by the Building Commissioner/Zoning Officer, the Fire Chief and the
Chief of Police, as often as is necessary to comply with the provisions of this
Article and any other ordinance provisions relating thereto. (1988 Code
§11.509)
ARTICLE F. CIRCUSES
SECTION:
3-3F-1: License Required
3-3F-2: Application for License; Fees
3-3F-3: Compliance with Provisions
3-3F-4: Inspection
3-3F-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or operate a circus in the City without having first
obtained a license as is provided in this Article. (1988 Code §11.401)
3-3F-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEES:
   A.   Application: The applications for such licenses shall be made to the
City Clerk and shall specify the place in or on which the circus is to be
conducted.
   B.   Fees:
      1.   Circuses: The fee for circus license shall be as set out in the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule for each license.
      2.   Sideshows and Concessions: The license fee for each sideshow and
concession operated in connection with a circus shall be as set out in the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code §§ 11.402 through 11.404;
amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-3F-3: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It shall be the duty of every person licensed under this Article to obey the
provisions of Chapter 3 of this Title and all other ordinances relating to
circuses or the premises occupied. (1988 Code §11.405)
3-3F-4: INSPECTION:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and the Fire Chief to see that
inspections, as provided for in Section
3-3-6 of this Title, shall be made of all circuses, circus performances and of
the premises used. (1988 Code §11.406)
ARTICLE G. CONCESSION STANDS 1
SECTION:
3-3G-1: Location Restrictions
3-3G-2: Permit Qualifications
3-3G-3: Application for Permit
3-3G-4: Permit Fees
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 5, Chapter 6 of this Code for parade regulations.
3-3G-1: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
The Chief of Police, or acting Chief of Police in the event the Chief of Police
is incapacitated, shall have the right to issue permits for concession stands
on the street and their exact locations by street number on the following
streets in the City:
   A.   California Street, south of Sycamore Street and north of High Street.
   B.   Governor Street, south of Exchange and north of Elm Street.
   C.   Locust Street, south of Exchange Street and north of Elm Street.
   D.   Main Street, south of Exchange Street and north of Elm Street. (Ord.
93.30, 10-4-93)
   E.   Maple Street, south of Exchange Street and north of Elm Street. (1988
Code §11.701)
   F.   Sacramento Street, south of Exchange Street and north of Dekalb Avenue.
   G.   Somonauk Street, south of State Street and north of High Street. (Ord.
93.30, 10-4-93)
   H.   State Street, east of Center Cross Street and west of Airport Road.
(1988 Code §11.701)
3-3G-2: PERMIT QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Not-for-profit corporations and religious corporations may receive
permission from the Chief of Police or acting Chief of Police to have
concession stands on their real property during said parade or celebration.
   B.   No concession stands may be operated or installed earlier than twenty
four (24) hours before any parade or celebration.
   C.   All concession stands must be removed within twelve (12) hours after
the parade or celebration is terminated. (1988 Code §11.702)
   D.   No concession stand shall be operated or installed in a manner that
would cause in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the sidewalk to be blocked.
Furthermore, it is the responsibility of the individual or group operating the
concession stand to insure that any lines created by its concession do not
restrict the movement in the fifty percent (50%) open sidewalk space.
   E.   Any electrical equipment of a temporary nature, must be protected with
the use of U.L. approved ground fault circuit interrupter equipment.
Furthermore, every concession stand with a fire source (e.g. ovens, grills,
open fires, hot plates, etc.) must have an approved fire extinguisher.
   F.   During Pumpkin Festival Weekend, which for purposes of this Chapter
shall begin on the Wednesday before the last full weekend of October through
Sunday of the last full weekend of October, a concession stand must obtain a
permit from the Sycamore Pumpkin Festival Committee, Inc., and must follow any
and all rules and regulations established by the Sycamore Pumpkin Festival
Committee, Inc.
   G.   During the Turning Back Time Car Show, which for purposes of this
Chapter shall be on the last weekend in July (Saturday and Sunday), a
concession stand must obtain a permit and must follow any and all rules and
regulations established by the Turning Back Time Car Show Board. (Ord. 94.14,
10-3-94; amd. Ord. 2021.33, 4-4-2022)
3-3G-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Filing of Application: Thirty (30) days prior to the date of any parade
or celebration, applicants who desire to operate a concession stand for the
sale of food and nonalcoholic beverages must apply for a permit to sell same
from the Chief of Police and the Ordinance Officer of the City, in the office
of the City Police Department, Municipal Building, Sycamore, Illinois.
   B.   Approval or Denial: Within seventy two (72) hours after written
application is made stating the type of food and nonalcoholic beverage
concession stand to be operated, after inspection of the preparation facilities
for such food and nonalcoholic beverages, safety inspection of stand to be
installed, name of owners and their salesmen, health facilities regulating
preparation of food and cleanliness of kitchen, the Chief of Police, after due
inspection, provided that as a condition precedent, all the laws of the State
and the ordinances of the City are complied with, may issue a permit for the
sale of food and nonalcoholic beverages or, in the alternative, refuse to issue
a permit if said State statutes and the ordinances of the City are not complied
with.
   C.   Closure of Stand: If, during any parade or during any period of
celebration, the health ordinances of the City or the statutes of the State in
regard to same are violated, the Chief of Police immediately may close said
concession stand. (1988 Code §11.703)
3-3G-4: PERMIT FEES:
The permit fee for each concession stand which allows the sale of food and
nonalcoholic beverages for each parade or celebration, if a permit can be
issued, shall be in an amount set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule, covering the inspection expense of the Chief of Police, payable in
advance upon making written application. (1988 Code §11.704; amd. Ord. 2023.04,
5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 4
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Permit Required
3-4-3: Application For Permit; Fee
3-4-4: Investigation Of Applicant
3-4-5: Issuance Or Denial Of Permit
3-4-6: Restrictions On Permit
3-4-7: Expiration Of Permit; Renewal
3-4-8: Revocation Of Permit
3-4-9: Appeals
3-4-10: Constitutional Guarantees
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms are hereby
defined:
   ITINERANT MERCHANT: A person engaged in business who conducts a temporary or
transient business in the city of selling commodities, articles or services
with the intention of continuing such business in the city for not more than
one hundred twenty (120) days and who, in such business, uses, leases or
occupies any part of the city for the display of such commodities or articles
or in connection with the offering of such services.
   PEDDLER: A person engaged in business who sells or offers for sale any
commodity or article on any street, sidewalk, park or public place, or who
travels from place to place in the city, or who sells or offers for sale and
delivery from any vehicle or pushcart going from place to place in the city any
commodity or article, and who carries such commodity or article with him/her
for delivery at the time of sale.
   PLACE TO PLACE: Shall include residential, industrial and business
establishments, but shall not apply to the wholesale selling of commodities or
articles for the further resale or use in industrial and business
establishments.
   SOLICITOR: A person engaged in business, going from place to place in the
city seeking orders or subscriptions for services or for commodities not
carried with him at the time he is seeking orders or at the time of sale. (1988
Code §14.402; amd. Ord. 2004.79, 4-4-2005)
3-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for a "peddler" or "itinerant merchant" or "solicitor", as
defined in section
3-4-1 of this chapter, to engage in such business within the city without first
obtaining a permit therefor in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
A violation of this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code §14.401; amd. 1994 Code; Ord.
2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-4-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   Application: Every peddler, solicitor and itinerant merchant shall,
prior to the engaging in such activity, register with the department of police
and furnish, in writing, the following information:
      1.   Name and description of applicant.
      2.   Address (permanent and local).
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold.
      4.   The name and address of the person by whom the applicant is employed
or with whom he is associated.
      5.   The length of time the applicant wishes to be engaged in such
activity.
      6.   If a vehicle is to be used, description of the same, together with
permit number or other means of identification.
      7.   A photograph of the applicant, taken within sixty (60) days
immediately prior to the date of the filing of the application, which picture
shall be approximately two inches by two inches (2" x 2"), showing the head and
shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner.
      8.   The names of at least two (2) reliable residents of the city who
will certify as to the applicant's good character and business responsibility,
evidence as to the good character and business responsibility of the applicant
as will enable an investigator to properly evaluate such character and business
responsibility.
      9.   A statement of whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a
felony and if so, what, when and where.
   B.   Fee: At the same time of filing the application, a fee equal to the
cost of the investigation or the current fee charged by the investigation
service provider shall be delivered to the city clerk payable to the city or
the investigation service provider, as the case may be, at the time the license
application is submitted to cover the cost of investigation. For further
information on fees, see the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      Further, at the same time of filing the application, the following fees
shall be paid to the city by the applicant:
      1.   Peddler fee: Applicable fees are provided for in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      2.   Solicitor fee: Applicable fees are provided for in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      3.   Itinerant merchant fee: Applicable fees are provided for in the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   C.   Felony Conviction Or False Information: It shall be unlawful for any
person to engage as a peddler, solicitor or itinerant merchant within the city
if any of the information furnished by him, as required by this chapter, which
is material to his character and responsibility or to the activity he proposed
to engage in, has been falsely stated or is adverse to his character or if he
has been convicted of a felony in the past five (5) years. (1988 Code §§ 14.403
and 14.404; amd. Ord. 2002.67, 1-6-2003; Ord. 2013.45, 4-21-2014; Ord. 2023.04,
5-1-2023)
3-4-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   Verification Of Information: It shall be the duty of the chief of
police to promptly make such verification of the information stated by the
applicant as the circumstances require and complete such investigation in not
more than twenty (20) days after the filing of an application.
   B.   Waiting Period: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage as a
peddler, solicitor or itinerant merchant within the city until such time has
elapsed from the date on which he has submitted an application and furnished
the information required by this chapter unless, prior to the expiration of
that twenty (20) day period, the chief of police advises the registrant that
the facts stated by him in compliance with the registration requirement have
been sufficiently verified. (1988 Code §14.404)
3-4-5: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   Submittal To Clerk:
      1.   All such applications, upon being processed by the police
department, shall be submitted to the city clerk with a determination as to
whether or not all requirements of this chapter have been met.
      2.   If the applicant does not meet the above requirements, the police
chief shall advise the city clerk that no permit should be issued. If the above
requirements are satisfactorily met, then a permit shall be issued.
   B.   Contents Of Permit; Transferability:
      1.   The permit herein required shall express the time it is to operate
and continue, the name of the person and the article, thing or merchandise
permitted, identification of a vehicle, if any, and whether said permittee will
pass from place to place or remain at a fixed point or place in the city. (1988
Code §14.405; amd. 1994 Code)
      2.   Permits shall not be assignable or transferable and shall be
identified as a "solicitor's permit" with identifying number and date of
purchase. (1988 Code §14.403; amd. 1994 Code)
      3.   Each registrant shall affix his signature to the "solicitor's
permit" required by this section. (1988 Code §14.404)
3-4-6: RESTRICTIONS ON PERMIT:
   A.   Trespassing: No peddler, canvasser, itinerant merchant or solicitor
shall enter upon any private residence in the City without having been
requested or invited to do so by the owner or occupant of said residence for
the purpose of pursuing his business of peddling or soliciting if there is
posted at a place that can be readily seen by one approaching said residence a
sign bearing the legend "No Peddlers", "No Solicitors" or words of similar
import.
   B.   Hours: No peddler, solicitor or itinerant merchant shall go upon any
private residence in the City for the purpose of pursuing his business of
peddling or soliciting, without having been requested or invited to do so by
the owner or occupant of said private residence, before the time of ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. and after a reasonable time in light of the trade being pursued.
   C.   Advertisement By Loud Noises: No peddler, solicitor or itinerant
merchant shall carry on his trade by means of loud outcries or other noises
that unreasonably alarm residents of the City. (1988 Code §14.407)
   D.   Ice Cream Trucks: No ice cream truck shall operate within the City
before ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. or after dusk and street side vending by an ice
cream truck is prohibited on all streets designated on the then current list of
prohibited streets which shall be available in the Office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2004.79, 4-4-2005)
3-4-7: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL:
   A.   Term; Expiration: Permits shall be granted for the period requested;
provided, no permit shall be granted for a period in excess of one year from
the date of issuance. Provided, if such permittee does not actively engage in
business within the City during a ninety (90) day period, such person will
inform the Police Department when he is ready to resume business activities.
(1988 Code §14.408; amd. 1994 Code)
3-4-8: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Cause For Revocation: The permits issued pursuant to this chapter may
be revoked by the Mayor, after notice, for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for permit.
      2.   Conviction of any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made
in connection with the selling of goods, wares, services or merchandise.
      3.   Any violation of this chapter.
      4.   Conviction of the permittee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation: Notice of revocation of a permit shall be given,
in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint. (1988 Code
§14.405; amd. 1994 Code)
3-4-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Clerk in regard to the
denial of application for a permit as provided in section
3-4-5 of this chapter or in connection with the revocation of a permit, as
provided for in section
3-4-8 of this chapter, shall have the right to appeal to the City Council.
   B.   Such appeal shall be taken by filing a written statement setting forth
the grounds for the appeal, with the City Clerk within fourteen (14) days after
notice of the decision by the City Clerk has been mailed to such person's last
known address.
   C.   The Council shall then schedule a hearing on such appeal at the next
regular Council meeting. Notice of such hearing shall be given to such person
in the same manner as provided in section
 3-4-8 of this chapter for notice of hearing on revocation. (1988 Code §14.406;
amd. 1994 Code)
3-4-10: CONSTITUTIONAL GUARANTEES:
No provision of this chapter shall be construed so as to deprive any person of
his right of freedom of religion or freedom of speech as guaranteed by the
Constitution of the State or the Constitution of the United States or as any
infringement upon businesses engaged in interstate commerce. (1988 Code
§14.409)
CHAPTER 5
JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
3-5-1: License Required
3-5-2: Application for License; Fee
3-5-3: Vehicles
3-5-4: Purchases from Minors
3-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate or carry on the business of keeper of a junk
shop, store or place for the purchase or sale of junk, rags, old rope, paper or
bagging, old iron, brass, copper or empty bottles or the purchase of such junk
without having first obtained a license therefor as is hereinafter provided.
(1988 Code §14.501)
3-5-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   Application: Applications for such licenses shall be made in
conformance with the provisions of the ordinances relating to licenses 1 .
(1988 Code § 14.502)
   B.   Fee: The fee to be paid for such annual license shall be as set in the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code §§ 14.502 and 14.503;
amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
 
Notes
1 See Section
  3-1-2 of this Title.
3-5-3: VEHICLES:
Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his business shall bear
thereon in legible characters the name and address of the owner and proprietor
thereof. (1988 Code §14.504)
3-5-4: PURCHASES FROM MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to purchase or receive from a minor any
article whatsoever, without written consent of their parents or guardians.
(1994 Code)
CHAPTER 6
TAXICABS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definition
3-6-2: License Required; Application
3-6-3: Qualifications
3-6-4: License Fee; Tags
3-6-5: Vehicles
3-6-6: Drivers
3-6-7: Insurance
3-6-8: Operation Of Business
3-6-9: Taxicab Stands
3-6-1: DEFINITION:
The term "taxicab" as used in this chapter shall mean and include any vehicle
used to carry passengers for hire but not operating on a fixed route. (1988
Code §14.602)
3-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of operating a taxicab in the
municipality without first having secured a license therefor. Application for
such license shall be made, in writing, to the clerk and shall state thereon
the name of the applicant, the intended place of business and the number of
cabs to be operated. If the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses
of the president and secretary thereof shall be given. (1988 Code §14.601)
3-6-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
No such license shall be issued to or held by any person who is not a person of
good character or who has been convicted of a felony, nor shall such license be
issued to or held by any corporation if any officer thereof would be ineligible
for a license under the foregoing conditions. (1988 Code §14.603)
3-6-4: LICENSE FEE; TAGS:
   A.   Fee: The annual fee, payable in advance, for such licenses shall be set
by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. Whenever the number of cabs
so operated shall be increased during the license, the licensee shall notify
the clerk of such change and shall pay the additional fee.
   B.   Tags: Such fee shall be in lieu of any other vehicle fee required the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule, and the clerk shall issue suitable
tags or stickers for the number of cabs covered by each license. Such tag or
sticker shall be displayed in a prominent place on each taxicab while it is in
use and may be transferred to any taxicab put into service to replace one
withdrawn from service.
   C.   Registration: The licensee shall notify the clerk of the motor number
and state license number of each cab operated and of the corresponding
municipal tag or sticker number. (1988 Code §14.604; amd. Ord. 2003.26, 6-16-
2003; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-6-5: VEHICLES:
   A.   State License And Proper Equipment Required: No taxicab shall be
operated unless it bears a state license duly issued, and no such cab shall be
operated unless it is equipped with proper brakes, lights, tires, horn,
muffler, rear vision mirror, doors, windshield wiper and mechanical parts in
good condition.
   B.   Inspection: It shall be the duty of the chief of police to inspect or
cause to be inspected every taxicab so often as may be necessary to see to the
enforcement of the provisions of this section. Said inspections shall be at
least each six (6) months; provided, that proof of inspection by a state
licensed truck garage in April and October of each year shall be deemed
sufficient to comply with this section.
   C.   Markings: Each taxicab, while operated, shall have on each side, in
letters readable from a distance of twenty feet (20'), the name of the licensee
operating it. If more than one cab is operated by a licensee, each cab shall be
designated by a different number and such number also shall so appear on each
side of such cab. (1988 Code §14.605)
3-6-6: DRIVERS:
   A.   Requirements: No person shall drive a taxicab, or be hired or permitted
to do so, unless he or she is a person of good character, has not been
convicted of a felony and is a duly licensed chauffeur. A fee set by the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule shall be delivered to the city clerk
payable to the city or the investigation service provider, as the case may be,
at the time the license application is submitted to conduct a background check
on the driver or drivers who will be operating taxicabs under the license and
prepare an identification card for the applicant driver. The city clerk shall
issue a driver identification card to the driver on approval of the license,
satisfactory completion of the background check, and presentation of a duly
issued chauffeur's license.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any driver of a taxicab while
on duty to drink any intoxicating liquor or to use any profane or obscene
language, to shout or call to prospective passengers or to disturb the peace in
any way. (1988 Code § 14.606; amd. Ord. 2002.67, 1-6-2003; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
3-6-7: INSURANCE:
No taxicab shall be operated unless it is covered by a bond or public liability
policy as required by statute. (1988 Code §14.607)
3-6-8: OPERATION OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Traffic Rules: It shall be the duty of every driver of a taxicab to
obey all traffic rules established by statute 1  or ordinance. (1988 Code
§14.608)
   B.   Unlawful Use: It shall be unlawful to knowingly permit any taxicab to
be used in the perpetration of a crime or misdemeanor. (1988 Code §14.609)
   C.   Passengers:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the driver of any taxicab to accept as a
passenger any person who seeks to so use the taxicab; provided, such person is
not intoxicated and conducts himself in an orderly manner. No person shall be
admitted to a taxicab occupied by a passenger without the consent of the
passenger.
      2.   The driver shall take his passenger to his destination by the most
direct available route from the place where the passenger enters the cab. (1988
Code §14.610)
   D.   Rate And Identification Card Requirements: The licensee shall file with
the city clerk a statement of the rates which will be charged passengers for
travel to locations in the city, the county and outside the county, and the
driver shall display a copy of the licensee's rate card in the driver's
compartment of the vehicle so that the card will be clearly visible to any
passenger in the vehicle. The driver shall also display his identification card
in the driver's compartment of the vehicle so that the card will be clearly
visible to any passenger in the vehicle. (Ord. 97.72, 3-30-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS.
3-6-9: TAXICAB STANDS:
The chief of police is authorized to erect appropriately marked signs to
designate two (2) cabstands for each licensee. In the event of a disagreement
between the licensee and the chief of police, said licensee shall notify the
city council within ten (10) days of the decision of the chief of police, of
his objection to the site selected by the chief of police. It shall be unlawful
for other than a licensed taxicab to park in a cabstand. A licensed taxicab may
be parked in any cabstand while in charge of its driver on duty awaiting a
fare. (1988 Code §14.611)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Electrical Contractor Registration Requirements
3-7-1: ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
Any person, firm, or corporation that performs any manner of electrical wiring,
repair, alteration, installation, or work that requires a building permit shall
be required to register annually with the Community Development Department and
shall otherwise fulfill required obligations as set forth in Section
9-3-1  of this Code.
   A.   Registration Requirements: Registration year shall begin on January 1
of each year and shall require compliance with the following standards:
      1.   Registration: Registration shall be in form and content acceptable
to the Director of Community Development or his/her designee and shall have
contact information for the contractor who will be performing the work within
the City of Sycamore. Registration shall require a completed application,
payment of the registration fee as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee, Bond & Penalty Schedule, and the necessary qualifications, training,
experience, and technical knowledge to do electrical work as evidenced by: 1) a
valid electrical license issued by a governmental entity located within the
State of Illinois that administers tests consistent with standards of the
National Electrical Code; or 2) proof of successful passage of an electrical
examination consistent with the standards of the National Electrical Code; or
3) an expired City of Sycamore electrical license/registration. The Application
shall be reviewed and approved by the Director of Community Development or his/
her designee.
      2.   Annual Renewal: The registration shall be renewed annually.
Contractors registered from the previous fiscal year shall pay the registration
fee as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee, Bond & Penalty Schedule. A
notice of renewal will be sent to all registrants prior to December 31 of each
calendar year. Failure to renew the registration for two (2) consecutive fiscal
years shall require the contractor to submit a new registration application as
outlined in section
9-3-1 (A)(1) of this Code.
   B.   Owner-occupants of a single-family residence may perform electrical
wiring/installations without registering with the City, with the exception of
the installation of electrical meter bases or panels, provided they are an
owner-occupant of the building where the work is being completed, the building
is a single-family detached dwelling and all of the appropriate permits have
been obtained. A person shall be considered an "owner-occupant" only if he or
she has taken possession of and is living in the premises as his or her bona
fide sole and exclusive residence, or, in the case of an owner of a single-
family residence under construction for his or her occupancy, he or she expects
to take possession of and live in the premises as his or her bona fide sole and
exclusive residence, and he or she has a current intention to live in such
premises as his or her bona fide sole and exclusive residence for a period of
not less than six (6) months after the completion of the electrical work
performed pursuant to the authorization of this subsection, or, in the case of
an owner of a single-family residence under construction for his or her
occupancy, for a period of not less than six (6) months after the completion of
construction of the residence.
   C.   City Not Liable for Electrical Work. This Chapter shall not be
construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any person, firm, or
corporation that performs any manner of electrical wiring, repair, alteration,
installation, or work that requires a building permit for damages to anyone
injured by any defect therein by reason of the inspections authorized herein or
the certificate of inspection issued by the Director of Community Development
and his/her designee; nor shall the City be held liable for any damages
resulting from the enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord.
2024.24, 10-21-2024)
CHAPTER 8
AUTOMATIC DRY-CLEANING MACHINES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definition
3-8-2: License and Permit Requirements
3-8-3: Compliance with Provisions
3-8-4: Installation Regulations
3-8-5: Operation Regulations
3-8-6: Inspections
3-8-1: DEFINITION:
An automatic dry-cleaning machine, as the term is used herein, shall be
construed to include and mean any device or apparatus for the cleaning of
clothes or fabrics and designed to be used or operated by any but the owner or
an employee of the owner thereof, which machine or device makes use of or
contains perchlorethylene or any other chemical solvent or substance which may
cause harm to human beings by reason of inhalation or contact. (1988 Code
§14.702)
3-8-2: LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Fee: It shall be unlawful to install any automatic dry
cleaning machine without first having secured a permit therefor. Applications
for such permit shall contain full information as to the mechanical equipment
of such machine and provisions for ventilation for both the machine and the
room in which the machine will be located. The fee for such permit shall be set
by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   B.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of
maintaining any such machine for use by the public upon payment of a fee,
without first having secured a license therefor. The annual fee for such
license shall be as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
(1988 Code § 14.703; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-8-3: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful to install, operate or maintain any automatic dry cleaning
machine as hereinafter defined, except in compliance with the provisions of
this Chapter or without complying with all of the provisions pertaining to the
installation and operation of such machine herein contained or in violation of
any laws, rules or regulations of the Illinois Department of Public Health
relating thereto. (1988 Code §14.701)
3-8-4: INSTALLATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Cabinets: Each machine shall be completely enclosed by a cabinet and
shall be vented with intake at the top and the outlet at or near the bottom of
such machine. Groups of machines may be entirely enclosed or supported on all
open sides by an enclosure topped with a hood vented as provided for each
individual machine.
   B.   Exhaust System: The exhaust system must maintain a minimum flow of one
hundred (100) cubic feet per minute face velocity through the loading door
whenever the door is open.
   C.   Discharge Stack: The discharge stack for the machines and for the room
in which the machines are located shall extend at least two feet (2') above the
level of any window which can be opened located within fifty feet (50') of the
outlet of the stack and shall be at least fifty feet (50') away from any fresh
air intake leading to any premises.
   D.   Machine Doors: The machines must be so constructed as to prevent the
loading door from being opened during the normal cycle of operation. Each
machine shall be equipped with a transparent door or port to allow visual
examination of the status of the cleaning cycle.
   E.   Air Gap: Any connection of such machine with the water supply system
must be equipped with an air gap or vacuum breaker in the line upstream from
the condenser, with no control valves down stream from such gap or breaker.
Wastewater shall be discharged through an air gap.
   F.   Ventilation: The room in which such machine is installed shall be
ventilated so that there shall be a minimum flow of air per machine from the
area to which the public is admitted of at least five hundred (500) cubic feet
per minute in a room where there are no more than three (3) machines installed,
four hundred (400) cubic feet per minute where there are no more than eight (8)
machines installed, three hundred seventy five (375) cubic feet per minute
where there are no more than sixteen (16) machines installed and three hundred
sixty (360) cubic feet per minute where there are more than seventeen (17)
machines installed. For this purpose each cleaning cell shall be considered as
one machine.
   G.   Leakage: Each machine must be so designed and constructed as to prevent
the leakage of liquids, gas or vapors. (1988 Code §14.704)
3-8-5: OPERATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance with Installation Requirements: No such automatic dry
cleaning machine shall be operated unless all the equipment described in the
foregoing Section is properly installed and in good operating working
condition.
   B.   Attendant: No establishment for which a license is required under this
Chapter shall be open for business, and it shall be unlawful to admit the
public or customers into the room where such machines are located unless there
is on duty in the establishment at all times a competent person in charge of
the establishment and in charge of the operation of such machines. There shall
be warning signs posted in places of easy observation warning of the dangers in
the event leakage of liquids, gas or vapor occurs. It shall be unlawful to
permit any residue containing solvent to flow into the sewer system of the
City; tightly covered metal containers may be used for temporary storage of
such waste outside the building. Such containers shall bear labels indicating
the contents and dangers involved in handling and shall be locked if in an
unenclosed place.
   C.   Owner's Name and Address: At least one legible sign shall be maintained
in a place available to customers giving the name, address and phone number of
the owner of the establishment and of the service department or agency
responsible for the proper maintenance of the machines. (1988 Code §14.705)
3-8-6: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the City Engineer or Building Commissioner/Zoning
Officer to cause such inspections to be made as are necessary to see to the
enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter. (1988 Code §14.706; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 9
AUCTIONEERS
(Rep. by Ord. 2004.29, 7-19-2004)
CHAPTER 10
SOUND AMPLIFIERS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Permit Required
3-10-2: Application For Permit; Fee
3-10-3: Issuance Of Permit
3-10-4: Restrictions Of Permit
3-10-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate on a public street a vehicle
equipped with any loudspeaker or amplifier connected with any radio,
phonograph, microphone or other device by which sounds are magnified and made
heard over any public street or public place without having first obtained a
permit therefor.
A violation of this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code § 26.301; amd. Ord. 2005.78,
1-3-2006; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-10-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   Application: Any person desiring a permit for the use or operation of
such a device shall file an application therefor with the city clerk, upon a
form provided by him, setting forth the name and address of the applicant, the
name of the owner of such device, the date upon which it is intended to be used
and such other information as may be prescribed.
   B.   Fee: The fee for such permit shall be as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code §§ 26.302 and 26.303; amd. 1994 Code;
Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-10-3: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Such permit shall be issued upon the payment of the permit fee, as above
provided, to the city clerk and shall permit the use of any such device subject
to the terms and conditions of this chapter, only upon the date specified on
such permit and no others. (1988 Code §26.304; amd. 1994 Code)
3-10-4: RESTRICTIONS OF PERMIT:
   A.   Use Restrictions: No permittee shall use, operate or employ any such
device within the city limits on Sunday or after the hour of eight o'clock (8:
00) P.M., prevailing time, of any day or before the hour of eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M., prevailing time, of any day. No permittee shall use, operate or
employ any such device within a radius of two (2) blocks from any hospital or
within a radius of two (2) blocks from any church while funeral services are
being held therein.
   B.   Exemption: This section shall not apply to radios in homes or in
private pleasure vehicles when the same are operated in such manner as not to
be audible at a distance of fifty feet (50') from such vehicle nor to noise
devices, bands or other musical devices used in any public parade or procession
which is operated under a permit in accordance with the ordinances of the city.
   C.   Obscene Sounds: No permittee shall cause or permit to be emanated or
emitted from any such device any lewd, obscene, profane or indecent language or
sounds or any false representation of any matter, product or project advertised
thereby the sale of which is prohibited by any law, ordinance or statute. (1988
Code §26.305; amd. 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 11
ROOMING HOUSES
SECTION:
3-11-1: Definitions
3-11-2: Application of Provisions
3-11-3: Application for License; Fee
3-11-4: Plan Approval
3-11-5: Term of License; Nontransferable
3-11-6: Inspection of Premises
3-11-7: Cellars, Basements, Third Floors and Attics
3-11-8: Accessory Buildings
3-11-9: Operation Regulations
3-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided
for four (4) or more persons.
   HOTEL: A building used as the abiding place of more than twenty (20)
persons, whether transient or permanent, who are lodged with or without meals,
for compensation, excluding therefrom private clubs, sororities and
fraternities. The word "hotel" shall include motel.
   LODGING HOUSE: A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
three (3) or more persons, pursuant to previous arrangement but not open to the
public or transients, excluding therefrom private clubs, sororities and
fraternities.
   PRIVATE CLUB, FRATERNITY or SORORITY: An organization or a group of
individuals joined together for a common purpose under a constitution, bylaws
or other rules adopted by them and chartered by the State of Illinois as a
corporation or authorized by the State of Illinois to carry on the purpose for
which they are organized and recognized by an accredited school or affiliated
with a nationally recognized organization having an identical or similar
purpose, not including any organization formed by the owner of real estate for
the purpose, among others, of operating a boarding, lodging or rooming house.
   ROOMING HOUSE: A building operated as a lodging house, boarding house,
private club, fraternity or sorority, but excluding a State licensed nursing
home, sheltered care home, home for the aged and other similar facilities for
the physically and mentally ill. (1988 Code §19.502; 1994 Code)
3-11-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other building ordinances or codes, this
Chapter shall control and govern the construction and occupancy of rooming
houses and other similar structures defined herein insofar as it purports to
deal with construction and occupancy. This Chapter shall not so control or
govern zoning ordinances, however. (1988 Code §19.501)
3-11-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   Application: Written application shall be made to the City Clerk upon
forms furnished by him, and said applications shall be filed annually and state
the following: name and address of applicant; person in whose name license is
issued; name and address of the owner of the building; number of rooms in said
building and the number of rooms to be occupied for sleep; number of persons to
be accommodated or allowed in each room, and accompanying said application
shall be floor plans of the building, approved by the City Engineer or Building
Commissioner/Zoning Officer, if and when such an office is created, showing all
fire escapes, stairs, halls, location and size of all windows and location of
habitable rooms.
   B.   License Fee: The license fee required under this Chapter shall be as
set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.. (1988 Code §§ 19.504
and 19.505; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-11-4: PLAN APPROVAL:
   A.   Submittal of Plans: All such applications and plans shall, upon being
filed with the City Clerk, be submitted to the City Engineer or Building
Commissioner/Zoning Officer, if and when such an office is created, who shall
be authorized by the application and the applicant to make proper inspection of
the premises, and no licenses shall be issued by the Mayor until he has written
approval from said Engineer.
   B.   Compliance with Codes: The City Engineer or Building Commissioner/
Zoning Officer, if and when such an office is created, shall determine whether
or not all requirements of the Building Code, Zoning Ordinance, Plumbing Code,
Electrical Code, Health and Sanitary Codes and Fire Codes and regulations have
been met 1 , and that the premises are safe and suitable for habitation and are
provided with adequate heat, light and ventilation facilities.
   C.   Correction of Deficiencies: In determining the foregoing requirements,
the City Engineer or Building Commissioner/Zoning Officer, if and when such an
office is created, may, where he deems it advisable, seek the advice of any
proper City official. If the applicant does not meet the requirements of the
ordinances of the City upon said inspection, the applicant shall have ten (10)
days to meet the same by correction before a license is granted or revoked.
   D.   Appeals: Any applicant dissatisfied with the decisions made under this
Section may appeal to the Ordinance Committee of the City Council, by an
application, in writing, setting forth the reasons for the appeal under oath,
and thereupon the Ordinance Committee shall review the decision within ten (10)
days, either affirming or disaffirming the decision and file its decision and
findings, in writing, with the City Clerk. (1988 Code §19.507; l994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code for building codes.
3-11-5: TERM OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABLE:
All licenses granted under this Chapter shall be for not to exceed one year and
expire on August 31 following issuance, and said licenses shall not be
transferable. All licenses granted hereunder shall be granted by the Mayor of
this City, with the consent of the City Council. (1988 Code §19.506)
3-11-6: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
An inspection shall be made at least once a year as set forth in subsection
3-11-4A of this Chapter. (1988 Code §19.508)
3-11-7: CELLARS, BASEMENTS, THIRD FLOORS AND ATTICS:
No license shall be issued to any person for rooming house occupancy of a
cellar, as defined by the Zoning Ordinance of the City, and no license shall be
issued for basement room, third floor rooms or attic rooms in any building
without the express written approval of the City Engineer or Building
Commissioner/Zoning Officer, if and when such an office is created. (1988 Code
§19.509; 1994 Code)
3-11-8: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
No accessory building shall be used for rooming house purposes. (1988 Code
§19.513)
3-11-9: OPERATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Bathroom and Toilet Facilities: Every rooming house shall provide
toilets, lavatories and bathing facilities, and the toilets shall consist of
one toilet stool for every eight (8) occupants or fraction thereof. (1988 Code
§19.510)
   B.   Air Space: No room in any such rooming house shall be occupied as a
sleeping room by any human being unless there is at least four hundred eighty
(480) cubic feet of air space and not less than sixty (60) square feet of floor
space per person for each and every person occupying any such room. (1988 Code
§19.511)
   C.   Cooking and Preparing Food: No person who shall keep, conduct, operate
or maintain such rooming houses shall permit in any living or sleeping room the
cooking or preparation of food or meals, and light housekeeping shall likewise
not be permitted on the premises. (1988 Code §19.512)
   D.   Maximum Number of Occupants: No rooming house, except fraternities and
sororities, shall be occupied by more than twenty (20) persons as a residence.
(1988 Code §19.503)
CHAPTER 12
HOTEL/MOTEL TAX
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definitions
3-12-2: Tax Imposed
3-12-3: Books And Records
3-12-4: Transmittal Of Tax Revenue
3-12-5: Collection
3-12-6: Penalties
3-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, whenever any of the following words, terms or
definitions are used herein, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in
this Section:
   HOTEL ROOM OR MOTEL ROOM: A room within a structure offered for rental on a
daily or other basis used or maintained as, or advertised or held out to the
public to be, an inn, motel, hotel or place where sleeping, rooming, office
conference or exhibition accommodations are furnished for lease or rent,
whether with or without meals. One room offered for rental with or without an
adjoining bath shall be considered as a single hotel or motel room. The number
of hotel or motel rooms within a suite shall be computed on the basis of those
rooms utilized for the purpose of sleeping. In no event shall this term be
construed to mean rooming houses, dormitories, apartment houses or other types
of permanent residential uses as defined in or generally interpreted in the
Zoning Ordinance, as amended, of the City of Sycamore, Illinois.
   OWNER: Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the
operation of an amusement so as to entitle such a person to all or a portion of
the net receipts thereof.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any
room or rooms in a hotel or motel for not less than thirty (30) consecutive
days.
   PERSON: Any natural person, trustee, court appointed representative,
organization, syndicate, association, partnership, firm, club, company,
corporation, business trust, institution, agency, government corporation, state
government or any political subdivision thereof, or any board or commission
thereof, state university, municipal corporation, district or other political
subdivision, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee, operator, user or owner, or
any officers, agents, employees or other representative, acting either for
himself or for any other person in any capacity, or any other entity recognized
by law as the subject of rights and duties. The masculine, feminine, singular
or plural is included in any circumstances. (Ord. 96.71, 2-3-1997)
3-12-2: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   There is hereby levied and imposed a tax of five percent (5%) of the
rent charged for the privilege and use of renting a hotel or motel room within
the City for each twenty four (24) hour period or any portion thereof for which
a daily or other room charge is made; provided, however, that the tax shall not
be levied upon any permanent resident of the same room or upon a person who
works and lives in the same hotel or motel.
   B.   The ultimate incidence of a liability for payment of said tax is borne
by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel or motel room,
said person hereinafter referred to as "renter".
   C.   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every hotel or motel to
secure said tax from the renter of the hotel or motel room and to pay over to
the Treasurer or any authorized representative of his office said tax under
procedures prescribed by the treasurer, or as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   D.   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this chapter shall
secure said tax from the renter at the time he collects payment for the rental
of the hotel or motel room or rooms. Upon the invoice receipt or other
statement or memorandum of the payment given to the renter at the time of
payment, the amount due under the tax provided in this chapter shall be stated
separately on said documents, or combined with the amount of the Illinois hotel
operators' occupation tax act.
   E.   The treasurer may promulgate rules and regulations not inconsistent
with the provisions of this chapter concerning the enforcement and application
of this chapter. The term "rules and regulations" includes, but is not limited
to, a case by case determination whether or not the tax imposed by this chapter
applies. (Ord. 96.71, 2-3-1997)
3-12-3: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
The treasurer or any person certified as his authorized representative, may
enter the premises of any hotel or motel for inspection and examination of
records in order to effectuate the proper administration of this chapter, and
to assure the enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed. It shall be
unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or interfere with the treasurer or
his authorized representative in the discharge of his duties in the performance
of this chapter. It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and
complete books and records to which the treasurer, or his authorized
representative, shall at all times have full access, which records shall
include a daily sheet showing: a) the number of hotel or motel rooms rented
during the twenty four (24) hour period, including multiple rentals of the same
hotel or motel room where such shall occur; and b) the actual hotel or motel
receipts collected for the date in question. (Ord. 96.71, 2-3-1997)
3-12-4: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX REVENUE:
   A.   The owner or owners of each hotel or motel room within the city shall
file tax returns showing tax receipts received with respect to each hotel and
motel room during each month commencing on and including the first day of each
month, on forms prescribed by the treasurer. The returns shall be due on or
before the fifteenth day of the succeeding calendar month.
   B.   The first taxing period for the purpose of this chapter shall commence
on May 1, 1997, and the tax return and payment, by cash or check, payable to
the city of Sycamore, for such period shall be due on or before June 15, 1997.
Thereafter reporting periods and taxes shall be paid in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. At the time of filing said tax returns, the owner
shall pay to the treasurer all taxes due for the period to which the tax
returns apply. Any payment made by check which is returned to the city because
of insufficient funds may result in the treasurer requiring that tax collector
to make future payments by cashier's check or money order.
   C.   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty the rate of
which shall be as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule., or
portion thereof, from the day of delinquency shall be added and collected.
   D.   As compensation for services rendered in the collection and payment of
this tax, the owner or owners of each hotel or motel filing a tax return may
retain an amount of money equal to two percent (2%) of the tax due.
   E.   Except as provided in this section, all information received by the
treasurer from returns filed under this chapter, or from any investigation
conducted under the provisions of this chapter, shall be confidential, except
for official purposes with the city or pursuant to official procedures for
collection of any state tax or enforcement of any civil or criminal penalty or
sanction imposed by this chapter or state statute. Nothing contained in this
chapter shall prevent the treasurer from publishing or making available to the
public the names and addresses of persons filing returns under this chapter, or
from publishing or making available reasonable statistics concerning the
operation of the tax wherein the contents of returns are grouped into
aggregates in such a way that the information contained in any individual
return shall not be disclosed. The treasurer may make available to the
secretary of the treasury of the United States, or a proper official of the
state of Illinois, or city manager or attorney, for exclusively official
purposes, information received by the treasurer in the administration of this
chapter. (Ord. 96.71, 2-3-1997; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003; Ord. 2023.04, 5-
1-2023)
3-12-5: COLLECTION:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the city
attorney shall, upon the request of the treasurer, bring or cause to be brought
an action to enforce the payment of said tax on behalf of the city in any court
of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 96.71, 2-3-1997)
3-12-6: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any
provisions of this chapter or the rules and regulations authorized by this
chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as set out in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule and may be incarcerated in the DeKalb County
jail for a term not to exceed six (6) months, and in addition, shall be liable
in a civil action for the amount of tax due plus any penalties. Each day any
violation of this chapter shall continue, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 96.71, 2-3-1997; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 13
OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-13-1: Municipal Retailer's Occupation Tax
3-13-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-13-3: Exceptions
3-13-4: Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
3-13-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILER'S OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-
11-1 upon all persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property, other than an item of tangible personal property titled or registered
with an agency of this state's government, at retail in this municipality at
the rate of one and three-fourths percent (1.75%) of the gross receipts from
such sales made in the course of such business while this section is in effect.
(Ord. 97.18, 9-29-1997; amd. Ord. 99.65, 3-20-2000; Ord. 2007.40, 1-21-2008;
Ord. 2009.51, 1-19-2010)
3-13-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-
11-5 upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the business of making
sales of service, at a rate of one and three-fourths percent (1.75%) of the
selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by such serviceman
as an incident to a sale of service. (Ord. 97.18, 9-29-1997; amd. Ord. 99.65,
3-20-2000; Ord. 2007.40, 1-21-2008; Ord. 2009.51, 1-19-2010)
3-13-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The "home rule municipal retailer's occupation tax" imposed by section
 3-13-1 of this chapter and the "home rule municipal service occupation tax"
imposed by section
3-13-2 of this chapter shall not be applicable to the sales of food for human
consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and needles
used by diabetics. (Ord. 97.18, 9-29-1997)
3-13-4: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
A.   Tax imposed; Rate:
   1.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the city at the rate of three
percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that
business.    
   2.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
section 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22).   
B.   Collection of Tax by Retailers:
   1.   The tax imposed by this section shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.    
   2.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this Article.
(Ord. 2019.31, 11-4-2019)
CHAPTER 14
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-14-1: Definition
3-14-2: License Required
3-14-3: Inspection Reports Required To Obtain License
3-14-4: Liability Insurance
3-14-5: Initial License And Annual License And Fees
3-14-6: Display And Form Of License
3-14-7: Fire Prevention And Safety Requirements
3-14-1: DEFINITION:
   BED AND BREAKFAST: An owner-occupied single-family dwelling, having historic
or architectural significance, providing accommodations for a charge to the
public with no more than five (5) guest rooms for rent that shall afford its
guests the opportunity to visit the owner in a home-like environment. (Ord.
98.37, 11-23-1998)
3-14-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate a bed and breakfast establishment (hereinafter called
"guesthouse") or a place of lodging as defined above, without first having
obtained a license for the guesthouse or lodging establishment from the City. A
license for a guesthouse may not be issued until the owner has obtained a
special use permit for the guesthouse from the City. (Ord. 98.37, 11-23-1998)
3-14-3: INSPECTION REPORTS REQUIRED TO OBTAIN LICENSE:
No license shall be issued until the following inspection report has been filed
with the City or Fire Chief:
A Building Department report from an authorized City Building Official stating
that the guesthouse complies with building code, electrical code and plumbing
code regulations applicable to guesthouses. (Ord. 98.37, 11-23-1998)
3-14-4: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Prior to obtaining a guesthouse or lodging license, the owner shall provide the
City with proof that liability insurance coverage in an amount of not less that
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per occurrence exists with respect
to such establishment. (Ord. 98.37, 11-23-1998)
3-14-5: INITIAL LICENSE AND ANNUAL LICENSE AND FEES:
   A.   Each applicant for a guesthouse license shall pay the following fees:
      Public hearing for the "special use": as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule;
      License and initial inspection: as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule; and
      Annual renewal and inspection: as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      License and "special use" fees shall be paid at the time of application
and are not refundable. Prior to the issuance of a license the owner must
provide proof of compliance with State of Illinois Health Department
regulations.
   B.   Prior to March 1 of each year, each guesthouse owner who wishes to
renew his license for the next fiscal year beginning May 1, shall pay an annual
license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Upon payment of said fee,
reports, if any, shall be completed and submitted to the City prior to May 1 of
such year. An annual guesthouse license shall be issued upon payment of the
license fee and upon the filing of said inspection reports. (Ord. 98.37, 11-23-
1998; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-14-6: DISPLAY AND FORM OF LICENSE:
The guesthouse license shall be conspicuously displayed near the registration
area within the guesthouse. The guesthouse license shall be in such form and
shall include such information as may be prescribed from time to time by the
City. (Ord. 98.37, 11-23-1998)
3-14-7: FIRE PREVENTION AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Required: No person shall operate a guesthouse or a bed and
breakfast establishment (hereinafter called "guesthouse"), as defined under the
zoning ordinance, unless the guesthouse complies with the fire prevention and
safety requirements set out in this section. (Ord. 98.37, 11-23-1998)
   B.   Minimum Requirements: A guesthouse shall meet the requirements for one-
and two-family dwellings as defined in the building code as currently adopted,
and the additional requirements as set forth in this chapter and the Illinois
accessibility code. (Ord. 98.37, 11-23-1998; amd. Ord. 2008.35, 10-20-2008)
   C.   Smoke Detectors:
      1.   Smoke detectors must be either permanently wired into the guesthouse
structure's AC power line, with battery backup or be otherwise interrelated so
as to comprise a system that is in the sole judgment of the fire chief or
building official of equal or greater value. In the event that a smoke detector
system is once approved by the chief of the fire prevention bureau, it shall
thereafter be deemed to be a system that complies with the requirements of this
section. Multisection units shall be wired or otherwise constituted so that the
activation of one detector will activate other centrally located warning
devices in the guesthouse. Smoke detectors shall be installed as follows:
         a.   One in each guestroom used for sleeping purposes;
         b.   One in each hallway or corridor on each floor;
         c.   One in each living room or lounge area;
         d.   One in each dining room;
         e.   One in basement and in each workshop area;
         f.   At least one smoke detector on each floor of the guesthouse, but
excluding unoccupied areas.
      2.   The guesthouse owner shall maintain in a visible location a monthly
report to verify that all smoke detectors have been tested and are functional.
   D.   Fire Extinguishers: Manual extinguishing equipment shall be provided on
each floor in accordance with "NFPA 10 - Standards For The Installation Of
Portable Fire Extinguishers". (Ord. 98.37, 11-23-1998)
   E.   Requirements For Certain Rooms:
      1.   Guestrooms used for sleeping purposes shall only be permitted in a
story above grade as defined in the building code. Passageways used for exiting
from any greater than two (2) stories above grade shall be enclosed by
materials that have a one hour fire resistance rating. Self-closing approved
doors shall protect these rated enclosures.
      2.   Sleeping room windows must conform to building code egress
requirement. (Ord. 98.37, 11-23-1998; amd. Ord. 2008.35, 10-20-2008)
      3.   Solid fuel fireplaces are not permitted and must be converted to
auto ignition gas logs or be permanently sealed off.
      4.   Approved house current carbon monoxide detectors must be provided on
each floor.
      5.   All guestrooms located above the second floor above grade must have
two (2) exits approved by the building department. All vertical openings above
the second floor in which a guestroom is located shall be enclosed with
enclosures continuous from floor to floor, which enclosures shall be by fire
barriers such as walls or partition assemblies. Any such fire barrier shall
have a minimum of one hour fire resistance.
   F.   Workshop Areas: Any workshop, mechanical room or other area determined
by the building official to contain equipment or materials constituting a
potential fire hazard shall be protected with minimum one hour rated walls and
ceiling. The mechanical room shall be provided with adequate combustion air and
must have at least one 160-degree sprinkler head installed in the room. (Ord.
98.37, 11-23-1998)
   G.   Interior Finishes: All interior finishes and floor coverings in the
guesthouse shall meet the building code, currently adopted, so as to restrict
the spread of fire. Cellular, foam, plastic and other similar materials shall
not be used for interior finishes.
   H.   Exit Regulations And Floor Plan:
      1.   All hallways, corridors and stairways used as exits shall be
adequately lighted at all times. Emergency lighting per the building code shall
be provided in the areas utilized by guests. (Ord. 98.37, 11-23-1998; amd. Ord.
2008.35, 10-20-2008)
      2.   A kitchen exit shall be permitted as a secondary exit in a
guesthouse where breakfast is served.
      3.   All interior and exterior exits shall open from the inside without
the use of a key or special knowledge. All such exits shall be the width of a
normal door and shall not be blocked or obstructed at any time.
      4.   A floor plan of the guesthouse shall be maintained in each
guestroom, which plan shall show the location of each guestroom and the exit
locations to be used for such guestroom in the event of fire. (Ord. 98.37, 11-
23-1998)
CHAPTER 15
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION TOWERS
SECTION:
3-15-1: Purpose And Intent
3-15-2: Definitions
3-15-3: Permits Required
3-15-4: General Requirements
3-15-5: Prohibited Uses
3-15-6: Permitted Uses
3-15-7: Special Uses
3-15-8: Application For A Special Use Permit For Antenna Facilities
3-15-9: Collocation Protocol
3-15-10: Abandoned Facilities
3-15-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the intent and purpose of this section to permit antennas and satellite
dishes where they can be installed with minimal visual impact by encouraging
collocation and other aesthetic measures, without creating adverse economic or
safety impacts and promoting the health, safety and general welfare of the
community. Furthermore, it is the intent of this section to ensure compliance
with federal communications commission (FCC) regulations as they relate to the
promotion of universal service, and competitive contracting by ensuring
fairness through the creation of clear and objective criteria for approval.
(Ord. 99.56A, 12-6-1999)
3-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   ANTENNA: A device commonly in the form of a metal rod, wire panel or dish,
for transmitting or receiving electromagnetic radiation. For the purposes of
this section an antenna includes any supporting tower, pole, mast, or building
to which it is affixed.
   COLLOCATION: The placement of two (2) or more antenna systems or platforms
by separate FCC license holders on the same structure, building, water tank, or
utility pole.
   HEIGHT: The height of an antenna or satellite dish shall be measured
vertically from the highest point of the signal receiving/transmitting
apparatus, when positioned for operation, to the bottom of the base, which
supports the antenna.
   PUBLICLY OWNED PROPERTY: Property in any district owned, leased, or
otherwise controlled by a governmental entity.
   SATELLITE SIGNAL RECEIVING ANTENNA (SATELLITE DISH): A device designed for
the purpose of receiving and converting earth orbiting satellite communications
signals. It may be a solid, open mesh or bar configured structure typically in
the shape of a shallow dish or parabola. Said antennas of this type are
hereinafter referred to as "satellite dishes".
   USABLE SATELLITE SIGNAL: A satellite signal which, when converted and viewed
on a conventional television set is at least equal in picture quality to that
received from local commercial television stations or by way of cable
television. (Ord. 99.56A, 12-6-1999)
3-15-3: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Building And Electrical Permit: Building and electrical permits shall
be required prior to the erection of an antenna or satellite dish, except as
provided for in subsection B of this section. The fee for the required permits
shall be as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. The plans
and specifications shall meet or exceed the applicable requirements of title 9,
building regulations, of this code.
   B.   Exceptions: The private use of an antenna or satellite dish for the
reception or transmission of radio or television signals, ham radio signals, or
citizen band transmissions, of a height no greater than sixty eight feet (68')
are exempt from the requirements of a building permit, engineering report, or
special use permit. (Ord. 99.56A, 12-6-1999; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-15-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Federal Communication Commission Compliance: All antennas, towers, and
satellite dishes shall comply with all federal communication commission (FCC)
requirements.
   B.   Maximum Number: Each business or residential lot shall have not more
than one antenna, tower, or satellite dish, except for: 1) radio or television
studios or amateur radio operators licensed by the FCC, or 2) where in the
opinion of the city council topographic or other conditions make it
economically or practically infeasible to locate on an alternate site.
Businesses selling satellite dishes shall be allowed a maximum of three (3)
satellite dishes located outdoors and only one of these shall be allowed in
front of the building.
   C.   Location: An antenna, tower, or satellite dish shall be located in the
side or rear yard. In the situation of a corner lot, the antenna, tower, or
satellite dish shall not be closer to the adjoining side street than the
principal building.
   D.   Placement On Rooftops: In the event that a usable satellite signal
cannot be obtained from the rear yard or side yard of the property, such
antenna, tower, or satellite dish may be placed on the roof of a building
subject to the approval of the building commissioner and to the other
requirements of this section.
   E.   Screening: Satellite dishes shall not be visible between the ground
level and ten feet (10') aboveground from any street adjoining the property.
Screening used to achieve this requirement shall be in compliance with the
building code, the provisions of this chapter and approved by the building
commissioner.
   F.   Diameter; Appearance: Within residential zoning districts, the diameter
of satellite dishes shall not exceed seven feet (7'). The dish and supporting
structure shall be neutral in color and shall, as much as possible, blend with
the character and appearance of the neighborhood.
   G.   Signs Prohibited: No antenna or satellite dish shall be used or serve
as a sign or bear an advertising emblem other than the name of the manufacturer
in letters not to exceed two inches (2") in height.
   H.   Guy Wires: Guy wires (only where necessary) shall not be anchored
within any front yard area but may be attached to the building.
   I.   Safety Wire: Whenever an antenna is installed within a distance less
than the height of the tower to power or telephone lines, or where damage would
be caused by its falling, a separate safety wire must be attached to the
antenna or mast or tower and secured in a direction away from the hazard.
   J.   Construction; Installation: Antennas, towers, and satellite dishes
shall meet and be installed according to all manufacturers' specifications. The
mast or tower shall be constructed of noncombustible materials, unless
otherwise approved by underwriters laboratories (UL). Brackets, turnbuckles,
clips, and similar type equipment shall be protected with materials approved by
underwriters laboratories (UL).
   K.   Setbacks: Antennas, towers, or satellite dishes shall meet the setback
requirement for a primary structure for the zoning district in which the
facilities are located. (Ord. 99.56A, 12-6-1999)
3-15-5: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses are prohibited:
   A.   Towers Or Antennas In Residential Districts: A tower or antenna used
for any commercial or other nonresidential purpose, including the placement of
other support equipment or buildings, used in connection with the tower or
antenna in any residential district, including the "PD-R" planned development
residential district. (Ord. 99.56A, 12-6-1999)
3-15-6: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
   A.   Collocating Antennas On Existing Towers In Industrial Or Commercial
Zones, Or On Publicly Owned Property: Antennas on an existing communication
tower of any height provided that:
      1.   The additional antennas are cumulatively no more than twenty two
feet (22') higher than the existing tower; and
      2.   The antenna is neutral in color; and
      3.   A qualified engineer submits evidence that the existing structure
can adequately support the proposed collocation apparatus.
   B.   Collocating Antennas On Existing Nontower Structures In Industrial Or
Commercial Zones, Or On Publicly Owned Property: Antennas on an existing
structure other than a tower (such as a building, water tank, sign, utility
pole, power pole, or other structure), provided that:
      1.   The additional antennas are cumulatively no more than twenty two
feet (22') higher than the existing structure; and
      2.   The antenna is neutral in color; and
      3.   A qualified engineer submits evidence that the existing structure
can adequately support the proposed collocation apparatus. (Ord. 99.56A, 12-6-
1999)
3-15-7: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted under the conditions and requirements
specified in section 13.02 of the city zoning ordinance in addition to those
outlined below:
   A.   Collocating Antennas On Existing Nontower Structures Or Existing
Commercial Towers In Residential Districts: Antennas on an existing structure
(such as a building [excluding dwelling units], water tank, sign, utility pole,
or other structure), provided that:
      1.   The additional antennas are cumulatively no more than twenty two
feet (22') higher than the existing structure; and
      2.   The antenna is neutral in color; and
      3.   A qualified engineer submits evidence that the existing structure
can adequately support the proposed collocation apparatus.
   B.   Towers Or Antennas In Commercial Or Industrial Zones Or On Publicly
Owned Property: Antennas or towers of any height, including the placement of
other supporting equipment and accessory buildings. Any equipment shelter shall
comply with development standards (i.e., setbacks, height limitations, bulk,
etc.) of the property's zoning district classification.
   C.   Private Use Antennas, Towers Or Dishes Greater Than Sixty Eight Feet:
The residential use of an antenna or satellite dish for the reception of radio
or television signals, ham radio signals, or citizen band transmissions, in
excess of sixty eight feet (68'). These special uses shall meet the
requirements of section 13.02 of the city zoning ordinance, but will be exempt
from the requirements of section
3-15-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 99.56A, 12-6-1999)
3-15-8: APPLICATION FOR A SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR ANTENNA FACILITIES:
In addition to the requirements of section 13.02 of the city zoning ordinance,
the applicant shall be required to submit information that includes, but is not
necessarily limited to, how the proposed special use will satisfy the following
conditions:
   A.   Points Of Visual Interest Shall Be Protected: Views from residential
structures located within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the proposed antenna
or tower to the following points of visual interest shall be protected to the
greatest practical extent:
      1.   Public open spaces;
      2.   Natural areas as defined on the development plan;
      3.   Landmark structures.
   B.   Methods For Protecting Points Of Visual Interest: The following
standards shall be used to protect the above identified points of visual
interest to the greatest practical extent if views from a residential structure
located within two hundred fifty feet (250') from a proposed antenna or tower
to a point of visual interest specifically identified above, are significantly
impacted. The applicant shall:
      1.   Examine locations within the same area where such visual impacts can
be minimized.
      2.   Investigate alternative tower designs that can be used to minimize
the interruptions of views from the residence to the point of visual interest.
      3.   Minimize visual impacts to the point of visual interest referred to
above, by demonstrating that collocation or the use of other structures within
the service area is not feasible at this time.
      4.   Minimize visual impacts by varying the setbacks or landscape
standards that would otherwise be applicable, so long as the overall impact of
the proposed development is as good as or better than that which would
otherwise be required without said variations.
   C.   Color: Antennas or towers and their support structures shall be a
neutral color that is the same or similar in color as the supporting structure
to make the antenna and equipment as visually unobtrusive as possible, unless
otherwise specified under federal aviation administration (FAA) standards.
   D.   Height: Antennas or towers shall not exceed the maximum building height
plus fifteen feet (15'), in the zoning district in which it is located,
applicants who wish to exceed this height shall provide evidence demonstrating
the need for exceeding this maximum standard.
   E.   Setbacks (Adjacent To Residential Uses): Antennas or towers shall be
set back from any existing adjacent residential property line by a distance
equal to the height of the tower, unless building plans are submitted
demonstrating that the tower will collapse within itself. Such building plans
shall be affixed with the seal of a certified structural engineer.
   F.   Lighting: None allowed except as required by the federal aviation
administration (FAA).
   G.   Fencing And Security: For security, antennas or towers and ancillary
facilities shall be enclosed by a fence not less than six feet (6') in height.
   H.   Landscaping And Screening: Landscaping shall be placed outside the
required fence area on sides facing public rights of way or residential areas
and shall consist of a fast growing vegetation with a minimum planted height of
four feet (4'), spaced evenly at intervals equal to twice the expected width of
the plant material.
   I.   Noise: Noise generating equipment shall be sound buffered by means of
baffling, barriers, or other suitable means to reduce sound level measured at
the property line to 30 dBA when adjacent to residential areas and 45 dBA in
other areas.
   J.   Tower Design: Towers shall generally be designed without the use of guy
wires or external supports. In instances where such a requirement may not be
feasible, appropriate documentation shall be provided by the petitioner,
demonstrating why such a tower is not feasible. The applicant will offer
alternatives to the design so as to minimize the visual impact of the tower.
   K.   Collocation Protocol: Any special use request for the erection of a new
tower shall complete the collocation protocol as outlined in section
3-15-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 99.56A, 12-6-1999)
3-15-9: COLLOCATION PROTOCOL:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this requirement is to create a process that
will allow providers to equitably share publicly available, nonproprietary
information among themselves, with interested persons and agencies, and with
the city, at the time the provider schedules a preapplication conference with
the city. This collocation protocol is designed to increase the likelihood that
all reasonable opportunities for collocation have been investigated and that
the appropriate information has been shared among the providers. The city
recognizes that collocation is preferable, where technologically feasible and
visually desirable, as a matter of public policy, but that collocation of
antennas by providers is not always feasible for technical or business reasons.
However, if all licensed providers are made aware of any pending tower or
antenna permit requests, such disclosure will allow providers to have the
maximum amount of time to consider possible collocation opportunities, and will
also assure the city that all reasonable accommodations for collocation have
been investigated.
   B.   Preapplication Requirement: A preapplication conference is required for
all proposed support structures.
   C.   Collocation Request Letter Requirement: At the time of preapplication
conference, the applicant shall demonstrate that the following notice was
mailed to all other providers rendering service within the city:
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 3-14-9.C., (applicant) is hereby
providing you with notice of our intent to meet with the City of Sycamore in a
pre-application conference to discuss the location of a wireless communication
facility that would be located at                . In general, we plan to
construct a support structure of       feet in height for the purpose of
providing (Cellular, PCS, etc.) Service.
Please inform us whether you have any existing or pending antenna located
within       feet of the proposed facility that may be available for possible
co-location opportunities. Please provide us with this information within ten
(10) business days after the date of this letter. Your cooperation is
appreciated.
   Sincerely, (applicant)
   D.   Applicant's Duty To Analyze The Feasibility Of Collocation: If a
response to a collocation request letter is received by an applicant indicating
an opportunity for collocation, the applicant shall analyze the feasibility of
collocation. This analysis shall be submitted with an application for any
support structure.
The investigation of the feasibility of collocation shall be deemed to have
occurred if the applicant submits all of the following information:
      1.   A statement from a qualified engineer indicating whether the
necessary service can or cannot be provided by collocation at the possible
location site;
      2.   Evidence that the lessor of the possible collocation site either
agrees or disagrees to collocation on their property;
      3.   Evidence that adequate access does or does not exist at the possible
collocation site to accommodate needed equipment and meet all of the site
development standards.
      4.   Evidence that adequate access does or does not exist at the possible
collocation site.
   E.   Result Of Collocation Feasibility Analysis: If the applicant has
provided information addressing each of the criteria in subsection D of this
section, the collocation protocol shall be deemed complete. (Ord. 99.56A, 12-6-
1999)
3-15-10: ABANDONED FACILITIES:
An antenna or satellite dish which has been discontinued for a period of six
(6) consecutive months or longer is hereby declared abandoned. Abandoned
facilities shall be removed by the property owner within ninety (90) days of
abandonment. Failure to remove an abandoned facility is declared a public
nuisance and is subject to penalties as outlined in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 99.56A, 12-6-1999; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
CHAPTER 16
LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAXPAYERS' RIGHTS
SECTION:
3-16-1: Title
3-16-2: Scope
3-16-3: Definitions
3-16-4: Notices
3-16-5: Late Payment
3-16-6: Payment
3-16-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
3-16-8: Audit Procedure
3-16-9: Appeal
3-16-10: Hearing
3-16-11: Interest And Penalties
3-16-12: Abatement
3-16-13: Installment Contracts
3-16-14: Statute Of Limitations
3-16-15: Voluntary Disclosure
3-16-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
3-16-17: Internal Review Procedure
3-16-18: Application
3-16-19: Severability
3-16-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-
2000)
3-16-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the city's procedures in
connection with all of the city's locally imposed and administered taxes. (Ord.
2000.58, 12-18-2000)
3-16-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
   ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act".
   CITY: The city of Sycamore, Illinois.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITY: The city's mayor and city council.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city manager is charged with the administration
and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the local tax
administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The local tax
administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this chapter
to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by the
local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city, not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE: Such audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
3-16-4: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000)
3-16-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the city
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the city on or before the due date, or b) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city, with adequate postage
prepaid. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000)
3-16-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000)
3-16-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by the court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
         c.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of twelve percent (12.0%) per annum,
based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days
elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund
check or the grant of a credit. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000)
3-16-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   C.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question,
the taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   D.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   E.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   F.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   G.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000)
3-16-9: APPEAL:
   A.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the local tax
administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000)
3-16-10: HEARING:
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
3-16-9 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit or
assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000)
3-16-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest: The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be set
by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   B.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty to be set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. A late
filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is
imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000; amd. Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-16-12: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000)
3-16-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000)
3-16-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns in
a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing.
The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs first.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   C.   The statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax return
was filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000)
3-16-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-
2000)
3-16-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the city
clerk's office. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000)
3-16-17: INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the city's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
2000.58, 12-18-2000)
3-16-18: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally constructed and administered to supplement all
of the city's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be
controlling. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000)
3-16-19: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph or provision of this chapter shall be held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of
such section, paragraph or provision shall not effect any of the remaining
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2000.58, 12-18-2000)
CHAPTER 17
RESTAURANT, BAR AND PACKAGE LIQUOR TAX
SECTION:
3-17-1: Definitions
3-17-2: Imposition Of Tax; Exemptions
3-17-3: Liability For Payment
3-17-4: Collection Of Tax
3-17-5: Responsibility of Owner to Keep Daily Records; Right of City to Inspect
3-17-6:    Rules and Regulations
3-17-7:    Filing of Return
3-17-8:    Transmittal of Excess Tax Collections
3-17-9:    Failure to File Return and Pay Tax
3-17-10: Record
3-17-11: Failure to Remit; Licensing
3-17-12: Violations; Penalties
3-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following words or terms shall have the following meanings:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, or ale as defined, set
forth and regulated in Title 3, Chapter 2, Liquor Control, of this Code, which
is sold at retail either for consumption on the premises where sold or is sold
in its original package for consumption off the premises.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR FACILITY: Any establishment licensed under the provisions of
Title 3, Chapter 2, Liquor Control, of this Code and that sells alcoholic
liquor on a retail basis.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, corporation, limited liability company, or
similar representative or entity.
PREPARED FOOD:
   1)   ‘Prepared food” means any solid, liquid (including both alcoholic and
nonalcoholic liquid), powder or item used or intended to be used for human
internal consumption, whether simple, compound or mixed, and which has been
prepared for immediate consumption.
   2)   “Prepared food” includes any such item purchased for consumption within
or upon the premises where it is sold or where such item may be purchased for
consumption off the premises. However, with respect to food purchased for
consumption off the premises where it is sold, “prepared food” does not mean or
include any food which is sold in a sealed bottle, can, carton, or container of
the manufacturer or wholesaler or which has not been prepared for immediate
consumption.
   3)   “Prepared food” shall not include any sale or purchase of undispensed
soft drinks, meaning any complete, finished, ready-to-use, nonalcoholic drink,
whether carbonated or not, including but not limited to soda water, cola, fruit
juice, vegetable juice, carbonated water, and all other preparations commonly
known as soft drinks of whatever kind or description that are contained in any
closed or sealed bottle, can, carton or container, regardless of size. Soft
drinks as defined herein do not include coffee, tea, noncarbonated water, milk
or milk products as defined in the grade A pasteurized milk and milk products
act, or drinks containing 50 percent or more natural fruit or vegetable juice.
PREPARED FOOD FACILITY:
   1)   “Prepared food facility” means any person or establishment which sells
at retail, food prepared for immediate consumption and whether or not such
prepared food facility use is conducted along with any other use(s) in a common
premises or business establishment.
   2)   A “prepared food facility” includes, but is not limited to, those
persons or establishments, commonly called an inn, restaurant, eating place,
drive-in restaurant, bakery, buffet, cafeteria, café, lunch-counter, fast food
outlet, catering service, coffee shop, diner, sandwich shop, service station
mini market; soda fountain, tavern, bar, cocktail lounge, soft drink parlor,
ice cream parlor, tea room, delicatessen, movie theater, mobile food or
beverage or ice cream vehicle, hotel, motel or club, or other establishment
which sells at retail, food which has been prepared for immediate consumption.
   3)   A “prepared food facility” does not include coin operated automatic
food item dispensing machines, churches, public or private schools, boarding
houses, hospitals, day care centers, nursing homes, retirement centers or
similar residential care facilities or programs for the central preparation of
meals to be delivered and consumed at private residences of invalids or the
elderly, and other facilities of not-for-profit associations or corporations.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: To obtain for use or consumption in exchange for
consideration, whether in the form of money, credits, barter or in any other
nature, and not for resale.
RETAILER: A person as defined herein that sells or offers for sale prepared
food in/or alcoholic liquor for use or consumption and not for resale. (Ord.
2024.34, 11-18-2024)   
3-17-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Effective January 1, 2025, a tax, in addition to any and all other
taxes, is imposed upon the purchase of prepared foods and alcoholic liquor at
retail at any prepared food facility or alcoholic liquor facility within the
city at a rate of two percent (2%) of the purchase price of such prepared foods
and alcoholic liquor. The liability for payment of the tax shall be borne by
the purchaser.
   B.   Exempt from the tax imposed above are persons purchasing items prepared
for immediate consumption served or prepared at:
      1.   A restaurant owned by a church, grade school, junior high school or
high school within the city of Sycamore;
      2.   Restaurants used primarily in conjunction with institutional living
establishments within the city of Sycamore, including, but not limited to,
dormitories, fraternities, sororities, residential care facilities and
hospitals;
      3.   Premises or operations of not for profit organizations who serve
food on an occasional and irregular basis. (Ord. 2024.34, 11-18-2024)
3-17-3: LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT:
   A.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax shall
be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying any such
restaurant, bar or package liquor store, said person hereinafter referred to as
“consumer.”
   B.   All retailers shall jointly and severally have the duty to collect and
shall collect and account for the tax imposed in subsection A of this section
from each consumer at the time that the consideration for such purchase is
paid. Such retailers shall be the trustee for the city in the collection and
remittance of said taxes. (Ord. 2024.34, 11-18-2024)
3-17-4: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Every person required to collect the tax levied by this chapter shall secure
said tax from the consumer at the time he collects payment for the service of
food or alcoholic beverage. Upon the invoice receipt or other statement or
memorandum of the payment given to the consumer at the time of payment, the
amount due under the tax provided in this chapter shall be stated separately on
said documents or combined with the amount of the Illinois retailer’s
occupation tax act. (Ord. 2024.34, 11-18-2024)
3-17-5: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER TO KEEP DAILY RECORDS; RIGHT OF CITY TO
INSPECT:
The owner and operator of each prepared food facility and each alcoholic liquor
facility within the city shall jointly and severally have the duty to maintain
complete and accurate books, records and accounts showing the gross receipts
for sales of prepared food and alcoholic liquor and the taxes collected each
day, which shall be made available to the city for examination and for audit by
the city upon reasonable notice and during customary business hours. (Ord.
2024.34, 11-18-2024)
3-17-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city manager of the city of Sycamore, or his designee, may promulgate rules
and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter concerning
the enforcement and application of this chapter. The term “rules and
regulations” includes, but is not limited to, a case-by-case determination
whether or not the tax imposed by this chapter applies. (Ord. 2024.34, 11-18-
2024)
3-17-7: FILING OF RETURN:
   A.   All retailers shall pay to the city all taxes collected. The owner of
each restaurant, bar or package liquor store within the city of Sycamore shall
file monthly tax returns showing tax receipts received during each monthly
period on forms prescribed by the finance director. The return shall be filed
before the twentieth day of the calendar month next succeeding the month for
which the return is made and shall be accompanied by payment of all taxes due
and owing for the month covered by said return.
   B.   The first taxing period for the purpose of this section shall commence
on May 1, 2002, and the tax return and payment for such period shall be due on
or before June 20, 2002. Thereafter, reporting periods on tax payments shall be
in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   C.   After May 1, 2002, retailers may submit a written request to the city
manager to submit tax returns on a quarterly, semiannual or annual basis.
Whether or not to approve such request shall be within the sole discretion of
the finance director.
   D.   Any payment made by check which is returned to the city because of
insufficient funds may result in the city manager, or his designee, requiring
the retailer to make future payments by cashier’s check or money order. (Ord.
2024.34, 11-18-2024)
3-17-8: TRANSMITTAL OF EXCESS TAX COLLECTIONS:
If any person collects an amount in excess of the tax imposed by this chapter,
but which amount is purported to be a collection thereof, and does not return
the same to the purchaser who paid the tax, the person who collected the tax
shall account for and pay over those excess amounts to the city along with the
tax properly collected. (Ord. 2024.34, 11-18-2024)
3-17-9: FAILURE TO FILE RETURN AND PAY TAX:
   A.   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at a rate to
be set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule, shall be added and
collected.
   B.   In addition to the penalty assessed under subsection A of this section,
any amount of tax which is not paid when due shall bear interest at a rate to
be set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   C.   As compensation for services rendered in the collection and payment of
this tax, retailers filing a tax return may retain an amount of money equal to
one and one-half percent (1 ½%) of the tax due, or five dollars ($5.00),
whichever is greater. (Ord. 2024.34, 11-18-2024)
3-17-10: RECORD:
   A.   All retailers shall cause complete and accurate books, records and
accounts showing the gross receipts for sales of taxable food items and
alcoholic liquor and the taxes collected each day, which shall be made
available in the city for examination by the city upon reasonable notice and
during customary business hours.
   B.   The financial records of any restaurant, bar or package liquor store
submitted pursuant to this chapter or any rule and regulation promulgated
thereunder shall not be made available for public inspection in order to
protect the owner’s right to privacy. (Ord. 2024.34, 11-18-2024)
3-17-11: FAILURE TO REMIT; LICENSING:
Payment and collection of said tax may be enforced by action in any court of
competent jurisdiction and failure to collect, account for and pay over any tax
collected from purchasers of taxable items shall be cause for revocation of any
city license of such retailer or applicable to the premises thereof, in
addition to any other penalty provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2024.34, 11-18-
2024)
3-17-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any retailer found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter, except when otherwise specifically provided, upon
conviction thereof shall be deemed to have committed a misdemeanor and punished
by a fine to be set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule and may
be punished by incarceration in the DeKalb County jail to submit tax statutes 1
, and under the provisions set forth by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule. A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each
day upon said retailer shall continue any such violation, or permit any such
violation to exist after notification thereof. (Ord. 2024.34, 11-18-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1.
CHAPTER 18
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-18-1: Definitions
3-18-2: Tax Imposed
3-18-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-18-4: Returns To Department
3-18-5: Resellers
3-18-6: Severability
3-18-7: Effective Date
3-18-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
   AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in this
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
this municipality, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point
within this municipality, and charges for that portion of the interstate
interoffice channel provided within Illinois. However, "gross charge" shall not
include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this chapter, 2) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, 4) 911 surcharges, or 5) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of such
municipality;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and community
affairs;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this chapter has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
represent expense allocation between the corporations and not the generation of
profit for the corporation rendering such service;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices; or
   I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political
subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined in this section. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees,
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this chapter.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this chapter, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this chapter. For purposes of this section,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupations tax act. (Ord. 2002.72, 2-17-2003)
3-18-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of five
percent (5%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of five
percent (5%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such
other state which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
state or local tax in this state.
   C.   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on such act or privilege
to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality. (Ord. 2002.72, 2-17-2003)
3-18-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this chapter shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale
at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 2002.72, 2-17-2003)
3-18-4: RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT:
On or before August 31, 2003, and on or before the last day of every month
thereafter, the tax imposed under this chapter on telecommunication retailers
shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required by the
department pursuant to the Illinois simplified municipal telecommunications tax
act (public act 92-526, section 5-50) and any accompanying rules and
regulations created by the department to implement the act. (Ord. 2002.72, 2-
17-2003)
3-18-5: RESELLERS:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this chapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of originating
or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax free on the
grounds of being a sale or resale unless the person has an active resale number
from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in connection
with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is nontaxable
because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 2002.72, 2-17-2003)
3-18-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter, or the application of any provision of this
chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this chapter, or their application, that can be
given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this chapter. (Ord.
2002.72, 2-17-2003)
3-18-7: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval and publication as required by law, provided, however, that the tax
provided for herein shall take effect for all bills issued on or after July 1,
2003. Copies of the ordinance codified herein shall be certified and sent to
the Illinois department of revenue prior to April 1, 2003. (Ord. 2002.72, 2-17-
2003)
CHAPTER 19
HOSPITAL HOSPITALITY HOMES
SECTION:
3-19-1: Definitions
3-19-2: License Required
3-19-3: Inspection Reports Required To Obtain License
3-19-4: Liability Insurance
3-19-5: Initial License And Annual License And Fees
3-19-6: Display And Form Of License
3-19-7: Fire Prevention And Safety Requirements
3-19-1: DEFINITIONS:
   HOSPITAL HOSPITALITY HOUSE: A dwelling for the purpose of providing short
term accommodations and other supportive services in a home like setting near a
long term healthcare facility or hospital so guests may conveniently visit
ailing friends or relatives. (Ord. 2004.58, 11-15-2004)
3-19-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate a hospital hospitality house (hereinafter called "HHH")
or a place of lodging as defined above, without first having obtained a license
for the HHH from the city. A license for an HHH may not be issued until the
owner has obtained a special use permit for the HHH from the city. (Ord.
2004.58, 11-15-2004)
3-19-3: INSPECTION REPORTS REQUIRED TO OBTAIN LICENSE:
No license shall be issued until the following inspection report has been filed
with the city fire chief:
A building department report from an authorized city building official stating
that the HHH complies with building code, electrical code and plumbing code
regulations applicable to guesthouses. (Ord. 2004.58, 11-15-2004)
3-19-4: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Prior to obtaining an HHH license, the owner shall provide the city with proof
that liability insurance coverage in an amount of not less than five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per occurrence exists with respect to such
establishment. (Ord. 2004.58, 11-15-2004)
3-19-5: INITIAL LICENSE AND ANNUAL LICENSE AND FEES:
   A.   Each applicant for an HHH license shall pay the following fees:
      Public hearing for the "special use": Applicable fees are provided for in
the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule;
      License and initial inspection: Applicable fees are provided for in the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule; and
      Annual renewal and inspection: Applicable fees are provided for in the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      License and "special use" fees shall be paid at the time of application
and are not refundable. Prior to the issuance of a license the owner must
provide proof of compliance with state of Illinois health department
regulations.
   B.   Prior to March 1 of each year, each HHH owner who wishes to renew his
license for the next fiscal year beginning May 1, shall pay an annual license
fee as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. Upon payment of
said fee, reports, if any, shall be completed and submitted to the city prior
to May 1 of such year. An annual HHH license shall be issued upon payment of
the license fee and upon the filing of said inspection reports. (Ord. 2004.58,
11-15-2004; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-19-6: DISPLAY AND FORM OF LICENSE:
The HHH license shall be conspicuously displayed near the registration area
within the HHH. The HHH license shall be in such form and shall include such
information as may be prescribed from time to time by the city. (Ord. 2004.58,
11-15-2004)
3-19-7: FIRE PREVENTION AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Required: No person shall operate an HHH, unless the HHH
complies with the fire prevention and safety requirements set out in this
section.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: An HHH shall meet the requirements for one- and
two-family dwellings as defined in the building code as currently adopted, and
the additional requirements as set forth in this chapter and the Illinois
accessibility code.
   C.   Smoke Detectors:
      1.   Smoke detectors must be either permanently wired into the HHH
structure's AC power line, with battery backup or be otherwise interrelated so
as to comprise a system that is in the sole judgment of the fire chief or
building official of equal or greater value. In the event that a smoke detector
system is once approved by the chief of the fire prevention bureau, it shall
thereafter be deemed to be a system that complies with the requirements of this
section. Multisection units shall be wired or otherwise constituted so that the
activation of one detector will activate other centrally located warning
devices in the HHH. Smoke detectors shall be installed as follows:
         a.   One in each guestroom used for sleeping purposes;
         b.   One per floor in the general areas of the HHH;
         c.   At least one smoke detector on each floor of the HHH.
      2.   The HHH owner shall maintain in a visible location a weekly report
to verify that all smoke detectors have been tested and are functional.
   D.   Fire Extinguishers: Manual extinguishing equipment shall be provided on
each floor in accordance with "NFPA 10 - Standards For The Installation Of
Portable Fire Extinguishers". All such extinguishers shall be at a minimum
2A40BC rated. In addition, in the furnace and/or mechanical room a sprinkler
head must be provided.
   E.   Requirements For Certain Rooms:
      1.   Guestrooms used for sleeping purposes shall only be permitted in a
story above grade as defined in the building code. Passageways used for exiting
from any greater than two (2) stories above grade shall be enclosed by
materials that have a one hour fire resistance rating. Self-closing approved
doors shall protect these rated enclosures.
      2.   Sleeping room windows must conform to building code egress
requirement.
      3.   Solid fuel fireplaces are not permitted and must be converted to
auto ignition gas logs or be permanently sealed off.
      4.   Approved heat and carbon monoxide detectors must be provided on each
floor.
      5.   All rooms within the HHH must have two (2) exits (1 of which may be
a code approved emergency escape window) approved by the building department.
All vertical openings above the second floor in which a guestroom is located
shall be enclosed with enclosures continuous from floor to floor, which
enclosures shall be by fire barriers such as walls or partition assemblies. Any
such fire barrier shall have a minimum of one hour fire resistance.
   F.   Exit Regulations And Floor Plan:
      1.   All hallways, corridors and stairways used as exits shall be
adequately lighted at all times. Emergency lighting per the building code shall
be provided in the areas utilized by guests.
      2.   All interior and exterior exits shall open from the inside without
the use of a key or special knowledge. All such exits shall be the width of a
normal door and shall not be blocked or obstructed at any time.
      3.   A floor plan of the HHH shall be maintained in each guestroom, which
plan shall show the location of each guestroom and the exit locations to be
used for such guestroom in the event of fire. (
      4.   Closet lighting must meet current building codes or be eliminated
and properly terminated.
   G.   Inspection Checklist: An HHH must be maintained and inspected on a
regular basis. The owner shall keep a checklist of fire safety items, which
must be completed on a weekly basis and available for examination by city
inspectors at all times.
   H.   Miscellaneous:
      1.   Smoking is not to be permitted anywhere within the HHH.
      2.   Cooking shall not be permitted anywhere within the HHH except that
coffeemakers, toasters and microwave ovens, and induction cooktops may be used
in the kitchen area only.
   3.   All kitchen and bathroom receptacles must be ground fault protected.
   4.   No HHH shall have more than four (4) sleeping rooms and no sleeping
rooms shall be permitted in the basement or below grade.
(Ord. 2004.58, 11-15-2004; amd. Ord. 2008.35, 10-20-2008; Ord. 2019.27, 10-7-
2019; Ord. 2022.13, 11-7-2022)
CHAPTER 20
REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX
SECTION:
3-20-1: Definitions
3-20-2: Imposition Of Tax
3-20-3: Liability For Tax
3-20-4: Purchase Of Stamps
3-20-5: Filing Of Declaration
3-20-6: Exemptions
3-20-7: Recordation Of Deeds
3-20-8: Proceeds Of Tax
3-20-9: Interest And Penalties
3-20-10: Civil Liability For Tax
3-20-11: Fine For Violation
3-20-12: Severability
3-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   DEED: All documents transferring or reflecting the transfer of legal title,
equitable title or both legal and equitable title to real property, or the
beneficial interest in a land trust. Delivery of any deed shall be deemed to
have occurred when the transferee or purchaser, or his representative or agent,
receives possession of the deed or in the case of a land trust when the trustee
receives possession of a valid assignment of a beneficial interest.
   PERSON: Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor, conservator,
assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, partnership, joint venture,
club, company, business trust, municipal corporation, political subdivision of
the state, domestic or foreign corporation, association, syndicate, society or
any group of individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative,
fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise, and the United States or any instrumentality
thereof. Whenever the term person is used in any clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty, the term as applied to associations shall mean the owners
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   RECORDATION: The recording of deeds with the office of the recorder of deeds
of DeKalb County.
   VALUE: The amount of the full actual consideration for any transfer covered
hereunder, including the amount of any mortgage or other lien assumed by the
grantee or purchaser. (Ord. 2005.93, 4-17-2006)
3-20-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
Effective June 1, 2006, a tax is hereby imposed on the transfer of title to
real property located in the city of Sycamore as evidenced by the recordation
of a deed by any person or by the delivery of any deed conveying an interest in
the real property, whether vesting the owner with the beneficial interest in or
legal title to the property or merely the possession or use thereof for any
purpose or to secure future payment of money or the future transfer of any such
real property. The tax shall be imposed at a rate set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any
and all other taxes. (Ord. 2005.93, 4-17-2006; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-20-3: LIABILITY FOR TAX:
The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax imposed by this
chapter shall be borne by the grantee (or buyer) of any deed, subject to this
chapter. (Ord. 2005.93, 4-17-2006)
3-20-4: PURCHASE OF STAMPS:
The tax levied by this chapter shall be paid by purchase of tax stamps from the
city treasurer or his designated agent. The payment of such tax shall be
denoted by an adhesive stamp or stamps affixed to the face of the deed. Such
stamps shall be available for sale at, and during the regular business hours
of, the city offices and the offices of such agents as the city may designate.
Upon payment of the tax levied and imposed by this chapter, the stamps so
purchased shall be affixed to the deed or trust document or other instrument of
conveyance as required by this chapter. Any person so using and affixing a
stamp shall cancel it and so deface it as to render it unfit for reuse by
marking it with his initials and the day, month and year when the affixing
occurs. Such markings shall be made in writing or stamping in indelible ink or
by perforating with a machine or punch; however, the stamp shall not be so
defaced as to prevent ready determination of its denomination and genuineness.
(Ord. 2005.93, 4-17-2006)
3-20-5: FILING OF DECLARATION:
At the time the tax is paid, or an exemption is applied for, there shall also
be presented to the city treasurer or his/her designee, on a form prescribed by
the city treasurer, a declaration in substantial accordance with the real
estate transfer tax law as set forth in 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 200/31-
1 et seq. However, the execution by at least one of the grantees or buyers or
their agents, shall be deemed sufficient under this section. The information
required to be provided in the declaration shall be given under the oath of the
person affixing his signature thereto that the matters contained therein are
true and correct. (Ord. 2005.93, 4-17-2006)
3-20-6: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The following deeds shall be exempt from the tax levied by this
chapter:
      1.   Deeds representing real estate transfers made before June 1, 2006,
but recorded after that date and trust documents executed before June 1, 2006,
but recorded after that date.
      2.   Deeds to or trust documents relating to: a) property acquired by any
governmental body or from any governmental body, b) property or interests
transferred between governmental bodies, or c) property acquired by or from any
corporation, society, association, foundation or institution organized and
operated exclusively for charitable, religious or educational purposes.
However, deeds or trust documents, other than those in which the administrator
of veterans' affairs of the United States is the grantee pursuant to a
foreclosure proceeding, shall not be exempt from filing the declaration
referenced in section
3-20-5 of this chapter.
      3.   Deeds or trust documents that secure debt or other obligation.
      4.   Deeds or trust documents that, without additional consideration,
confirm, correct, modify, or supplement a deed or trust document previously
recorded.
      5.   Deeds or trust documents where the actual consideration is less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      6.   Tax deeds.
      7.   Deeds or trust documents that release property that is security for
a debt or other obligation.
      8.   Deeds of partition.
      9.   Deeds or trust documents made pursuant to mergers, consolidations or
transfers or sales of substantially all of the assets of corporations under
plans of reorganization under the federal internal revenue code or title 11 of
the federal bankruptcy act.
      10.   Deeds or trust documents made by a subsidiary corporation to its
parent corporation for no consideration other than the cancellation or
surrender of the subsidiary's stock.
      11.   Deeds when there is an actual exchange of real estate and trust
documents when there is an actual exchange of beneficial interests, except that
that money difference or money's worth paid from one to the other is not exempt
from the tax. These deeds or trust documents, however, shall not be exempt from
filing the declaration.
      12.   Deeds issued to a holder of a mortgage, as defined in section 15-
103 of the code of civil procedure, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-1207,
pursuant to a mortgage foreclosure proceeding or pursuant to a transfer in lieu
of foreclosure.
      13.   A deed or trust document related to the purchase of a principal
residence by a participant in the program authorized by the home ownership made
easy act, 310 Illinois Compiled Statutes 55/1 et seq., except that those deeds
and trust documents shall not be exempt from filing the declaration.
      14.   A deed or trust document where the grantee or buyer is purchasing
homestead real estate within the city and has maintained resident status
(whether as a tenant or as an owner-occupier of real property) within the
corporate limits of the city of Sycamore for a period of at least one year
immediately prior to the date of application for exemption from the transfer
tax to be imposed.
   B.   Every deed which is tax exempt pursuant to this section shall be
presented to the city treasurer or his designee so as to be appropriately
marked by said treasurer as an exempt deed eligible for recordation without the
payment of tax. At such time as a deed is presented to the city treasurer
pursuant to this section, there shall be filed with the treasurer a certificate
setting forth the facts which justify the exemption of the deed presented. The
certificate shall be executed on behalf of the grantee or buyer, and shall be
on a form provided by the city treasurer. (Ord. 2005.93, 4-17-2006)
3-20-7: RECORDATION OF DEEDS:
After the effective date hereof, no deed conveying real property within the
corporate limits of the city of Sycamore shall be entitled to recordation by
the recorder of deeds for DeKalb County unless such deed shall bear either a
Sycamore real estate transfer tax stamp in the amount required by this chapter,
or an exemption mark from the Sycamore city treasurer or his designee. (Ord.
2005.93, 4-17-2006)
3-20-8: PROCEEDS OF TAX:
All proceeds resulting from the collection of the tax imposed by this chapter,
including interest and penalties, shall be paid to the treasurer of the city of
Sycamore and shall be credited to and deposited in the general fund of the city
provided however that not less frequently than quarterly, the collected
amounts, less an administrative fee, shall be paid to the Sycamore Community
Unit School District to be used for its general operating purposes. (Ord.
2005.93, 4-17-2006)
3-20-9: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event of failure by any person to pay to the city treasurer the tax
required hereunder when the same shall be due, interest shall accumulate and be
due upon said tax at the rate of one percent per month commencing as of the
first day following the day when the deed was recorded or the assignment of
beneficial interest as accepted by the trustee. In addition, a penalty shall be
assessed and collected against any person who shall fail to pay the tax imposed
by this chapter as imposed by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2005.93, 4-17-2006; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-20-10: CIVIL LIABILITY FOR TAX:
In the event of failure by any person to pay to the city treasurer the tax
required hereunder when the same shall be due, said person shall be liable to
the city of Sycamore for such tax, together with interest and penalties. The
city may bring an action to collect such tax, interest, and penalties in any
court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2005.93, 4-17-2006)
3-20-11: FINE FOR VIOLATION:
In addition to the remaining provisions of this chapter, any person found
guilty in a court of competent jurisdiction of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting or refusing to comply with any provision of this chapter, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2005.93, 4-17-2006; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
3-20-12: SEVERABILITY:
If any clause, sentence, section, provision or part of this chapter or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance shall be adjudged to be
unconstitutional, the remainder of this chapter or its application to persons
or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid shall not be
affected thereby. (Ord. 2005.93, 4-17-2006)
CHAPTER 21
MOTOR FUEL TAX
SECTION:
3-21-1: Definitions
3-21-2: Tax Imposed
3-21-3: Collection Of Tax
3-21-4: Registration And Maintenance Of Records
3-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   MOTOR FUEL: All volatile liquids compounded or used for fueling motor
vehicles, including gasoline, gasohol and diesel fuel.
   MOTOR FUEL RETAILER: Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business
of selling motor fuel at retail, and not for resale. (Ord. 2007.41, 1-21-2008)
3-21-2: TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby imposed and levied a tax upon the retail purchase within the
city of Sycamore of motor fuel, at the rate of two cents ($0.02) per gallon or
fraction thereof. This tax shall be in addition to any and all other taxes. The
ultimate incidence and liability for payment of such tax shall be upon the
retail purchaser of motor fuel. Nothing herein shall be construed to impose a
tax upon the occupation of selling motor fuel. (Ord. 2007.41, 1-21-2008)
3-21-3: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Each motor fuel retailer in the city of Sycamore shall have the duty to collect
the motor fuel tax from each purchaser and to pay it over to the city of
Sycamore, along with an accounting therefor, on return forms provided by the
city. The return and tax payment shall be filed with the city comptroller on
the same filing dates as are established for filing with the Illinois
department of revenue of the retailers' occupations tax return form RR-1-A.
(Ord. 2007.41, 1-21-2008)
3-21-4: REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS:
Each motor fuel retailer shall register with the city of Sycamore on forms
provided by the city comptroller. Each motor fuel retailer shall have the duty
to maintain complete and accurate books, records and accounts showing the gross
receipts for the sale of motor fuel and the taxes collected from the purchaser
thereof, which shall be available in the city of Sycamore for examination and
for audit by the city upon reasonable notice during customary business hours.
(Ord. 2007.41, 1-21-2008)
CHAPTER 22
BODY ART ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-22-1: Definitions
3-22-2: License Required
3-22-3: License Requirements
3-22-4: Premises Standards
3-22-5: Prohibitions
3-22-6: Client Medical History
3-22-7: Performance Of Body Art Procedures
3-22-8: Equipment, Instruments, And Supplies; Sanitation And Sterilization
Procedures
3-22-9: Storage And Disposal Of Waste
3-22-10: City Manager Or Designee To Enforce
3-22-11: Renewal Of License
3-22-12: Administrative Hearing; Compliance Conference
3-22-13: License Suspension
3-22-14: Reinstatement Of Suspended License
3-22-15: Revocation Of License
3-22-16: Notices
3-22-17: Hearings, In General
3-22-18: Right To Inspect And Examine Records
3-22-19: Report Of Inspections
3-22-20: Correction Of Violations
3-22-21: License Fees And Payment
3-22-22: Penalties For Violations Of This Chapter
3-22-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have, unless the context
indicates otherwise, the meaning ascribed to them:
   ANTISEPTIC: An agent that destroys disease causing microorganisms on human
skin or mucosa.
   BIOCHEMICAL WASTE: Any solid or liquid waste which may present a threat of
infection to humans, including nonliquid tissue, body parts, blood, blood
products, and body fluids from humans and other primates; laboratory and
veterinary wastes which contain human disease causing agents; and discarded
sharps. The following are also included: a) used, absorbent materials saturated
with blood, blood products, body fluids or excretions or secretions
contaminated with visible blood and absorbent materials saturated with blood or
blood products that have dried; and b) nonabsorbent, disposable devices that
have been contaminated with blood, but have not been treated by an approved
method.
   BODY ART, BODY ART PROCEDURE OR PROCEDURE: The practice of applying physical
body adornment to an individual using such invasive methods as body piercing,
tattooing, cosmetic tattooing, branding, scarification, or similar procedures.
This term does not include ear piercing or any procedures performed by a
physician, surgeon, chiropractor, acupuncturist, dentist, dental hygienist,
funeral director, embalmer, nurse, optometrist, physician assistant, or
podiatrist licensed pursuant to chapter 225, Illinois Compiled Statutes, and
amendments thereto.
   BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT OR ESTABLISHMENT: Any temporary or permanent place or
premises where body art procedures are performed.
   BODY PIERCING: Puncturing or penetrating the skin of an individual using a
presterilized single use needle, and inserting presterilized jewelry or other
adornment into the opening, excluding "ear piercing" as defined herein.
   CITY'S REPRESENTATIVE: The city manager, or that person's designee, who is
responsible for the administration and enforcement of the terms and conditions
of this chapter.
   EAR PIERCING: Puncturing the outer perimeter or lobe of the ear using a
presterilized single use stud and clasp ear piercing system following
manufacturer's instructions.
   EQUIPMENT: All machinery, including fixtures, containers, vessels, tools,
devices, implements, furniture display and storage areas, sinks and all other
apparatus and appurtenances used in connection with the operation of a body art
establishment.
   HAND SINK: A lavatory equipped with hot and cold running water under
pressure used solely for washing hands, arms or other portions of the body.
   HOT WATER: Water which attains and maintains a minimum temperature of at
least seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) and a maximum temperature of one
hundred fifteen degrees Fahrenheit (115°F).
   INSTRUMENTS: Instruments used for body art means hand pieces, needles,
needle bars, and other instruments that can come into contact with an
individual's body or may be exposed to bodily fluids during body art
procedures.
   INVASIVE: Entry into the body either by incision or insertion of an
instrument into or through the skin or mucosa, or by any other means intended
to puncture, break or compromise the skin or mucosa.
   JEWELRY: Any personal ornament inserted into a newly pierced area, which has
been properly sterilized prior to use.
   LIQUID CHEMICAL GERMICIDE: A disinfectant or sanitizer registered with the
environmental protection agency, or an approximate one to one hundred (1:100)
dilution of household chlorine bleach made fresh daily and dispensed from a
spray bottle (500 ppm; 1/4 cup per gallon or 2 tablespoons per quart of tap
water).
   PHYSICIAN: A person licensed by the state of Illinois to practice medicine
under chapter 225, Illinois Compiled Statutes, and amendments thereto.
   PROCEDURE SURFACE: The skin area adjacent to and including the area where a
body art procedure is applied, any surface of an inanimate object that contacts
the client's unclothed body during a body art procedure, or any associated work
area which may require sanitizing.
   SANITIZE OR SANITIZATION PROCEDURE: A process of reducing the number of
microorganisms on cleansed surfaces and equipment to a safe level in accordance
with public health standards by a method approved by the city's representative.
   SHARPS: Objects capable of puncturing, lacerating, or otherwise penetrating
the skin.
   SHARPS CONTAINER: A rigid, leak and puncture resistant container, designed
primarily for the containment of sharps, clearly labeled with the phrase and
international biological hazard symbol.
   SINGLE USE: Products or items are those intended by the manufacturer for
onetime, one person use and disposal after use. Items include, but are not
limited to, cotton swabs or balls, tissues or paper products, paper or plastic
cups, gauze and sanitary coverings, razors, piercing needles, scalpel blades,
stencils, ink cups, and protective gloves.
   STERILIZATION: A very powerful process resulting in the destruction of all
forms of microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial spores.
   TATTOOING: Any method of placing ink or other pigment into or under the skin
or mucosa by the aid of needles or any other instruments used to puncture the
skin which results in permanent coloration of the skin or mucosa, including all
forms of cosmetic tattooing.
   TECHNICIAN OR BODY ART TECHNICIAN: A person, age twenty one (21) or older,
who performs body art procedures.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS: A set of guidelines and controls, published by the
centers for disease control and prevention (CDC) as "Guidelines For Prevention
Of Transmission Of Human Immunodeficiency Virus And Hepatitis B Virus To
Health-Care And Public-Safety Workers" in "Morbidity And Mortality Weekly
Report" (MMWR), June 23, 1989, vol. 38, no. 5-6, and as "Recommendations For
Preventing Transmission Of Human Immunodeficiency Virus And Hepatitis B Virus
To Patients During Exposure-Prone Invasive Procedures", in MMWR, July 12, 1991,
vol. 40, no. RR-8. This method of infection control requires the employer and
the employee to assume that all human blood and specified human body fluids are
infectious for HIV, HBV, and other blood pathogens. Precautions include hand
washing, gloving, personal protective equipment, injury prevention, and proper
handling and disposal of needles, other sharp instruments, and blood and body
fluid contaminated products. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a body art establishment
without first obtaining a body art establishment license as provided in this
chapter. Such license shall not be transferable.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform body art procedures
except within a body art establishment operating with a current valid license.
   C.   Body art establishment licenses expire on April 30 of each year and
shall be renewed before May 1 of each year.
   D.   Licensees shall maintain compliance with all requirements of this
chapter and all other provisions of this code. Licensees shall notify the city
clerk within ten (10) days of any change of information provided in accordance
with subsection
 3-22-3A of this chapter. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every applicant for a body art establishment license shall submit an
application to the city clerk providing: 1) owner name (if partnership or
corporation, include names and resident addresses of all partners, officers,
directors and the name of its resident agent for purpose of service); 2)
establishment name; 3) street address; 4) mailing address; 5) proposed hours of
operation; 6) names of all body art technicians and their exact duties; 7)
description of all body art procedures to be performed or not performed; 8) an
inventory of all body art equipment to be utilized including names of
manufacturers; 9) names and addresses of suppliers of body art equipment and
supplies utilized; and 10) name, local address, and local residence telephone
number of the individual who shall be responsible for operation of the body art
establishment. The applicant shall also provide a statement as to whether the
applicant, any of the applicant's partners, officers or directors and the
individual who shall be responsible for operation of the body art establishment
have ever been convicted, pleaded guilty to, or is currently charged with
committing, by indictment or information, any felony violation or offense or
any crime of moral turpitude, and as to each such conviction, plea or charge,
the applicant, any of its partners, officers or directors and the individual
who shall be responsible for operation of the body art establishment shall
provide the conviction or plea date if applicable, the case number, the nature
of the felony offense or crime of moral turpitude and the name and location of
the court or other adjudicative body. The applicant, or if the applicant is a
partnership or corporation then the individual who shall be responsible for
operation of the body art establishment, must sign a fully executed waiver on a
form prescribed by the city to obtain criminal conviction information based
upon fingerprint identification pursuant to the Illinois uniform conviction
information act 1  and amendments thereto.
   B.   Applicants must submit to the city clerk a onetime nonrefundable
application processing fee as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule to the city of Sycamore at the time of submitting such application in
addition to the license fee set forth in section
3-22-21 of this chapter.
   C.   A scale drawing and floor plan of the establishment shall be submitted
with the application as well as proof of meeting the minimum requirements
established in this chapter and other relevant provisions of this code.
   D.   No body art establishment license shall be issued pursuant to this
chapter to an applicant:
      1.   If the applicant, or any of its partners, officers or directors, or
the person who will be or is in charge of operating the establishment has been
convicted of a felony under any federal or state law, or has refused to appear
and forfeited bond after having been arrested for such felony or if the
applicant has been convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude;
      2.   If the applicant, or any of its partners, officers or directors, or
the person who will be or is in charge of operating the establishment has had a
license issued under this chapter revoked for cause;
      3.   If, at the time of application for renewal of a body art
establishment license issued pursuant to this chapter, the applicant would not
be eligible for the license upon a first application;
      4.   If the applicant, or any of its partners, officers or directors, or
the person who will be or is in charge of operating the establishment has
unlawfully operated a body art establishment without first obtaining a body art
establishment license as provided in this chapter.
   E.   Upon determination that the minimum requirements for a body art
establishment set forth in this chapter have been met, the city clerk shall
issue a body art establishment license to the applicant. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-
2009; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023; Ord. 2024.03, 3-4-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 2635/1 et seq.
3-22-4: PREMISES STANDARDS:
   A.   The body art establishment license shall be posted within the
establishment in a prominent and conspicuous area where it may be readily
observed by the establishment's clients.
   B.   The establishment shall be well ventilated and shall have an artificial
light source equivalent to at least twenty (20) foot-candles at three feet (3')
above floor level, and at least one hundred (100) foot-candles at the level
where the body art procedure is performed and where instruments and sharps are
assembled.
   C.   All walls, floors, ceilings, and procedure surfaces shall be light
colored, washable, smooth, free of open holes or cracks, and shall be
maintained in good repair and clean condition. Carpeting is not permitted
within any body art procedure area.
   D.   Each technician working in the establishment shall have a procedure
area with at least forty five (45) square feet of floor space.
   E.   Multiple body art procedure areas shall be separated by solid or opaque
dividers, curtains, or partitions, at a minimum.
   F.   Each establishment shall have at least one procedure area completely
screened from public view for clients requesting privacy.
   G.   All body art procedure areas shall be completely separated by solid
partitions or by walls extending from floor to ceiling from any room used for
human habitation or food preparation, and from any food establishment, hair
salon, retail business, or other such activity, which could contaminate work
surfaces.
   H.   All procedure surfaces, including client chairs and benches, shall be
of such construction as to be easily cleaned and sanitized after each client,
with a liquid chemical germicide.
   I.   A separate hand sink with hot and cold running water, under pressure,
preferably equipped with wrist or foot operated controls, and supplied with
liquid soap and disposable paper towels, shall be located within or immediately
adjacent to the body art procedure area(s). One hand sink shall serve no more
than three (3) technicians. In addition, there shall be a minimum of one
equipment washing sink, one service sink and restroom facilities as required by
the Illinois plumbing code in each body art establishment.
   J.   At least one covered waste receptacle shall be provided in each
procedure area and each toilet room. Receptacles in the procedure area shall be
emptied daily. Solid waste shall be removed from the premises at least weekly.
All refuse containers shall be lidded, cleanable, and shall be kept clean.
   K.   No animals of any kind shall be allowed in a body art establishment,
except service animals used by persons with disabilities (e.g., seeing eye
dogs). Fish aquariums may be allowed in waiting rooms and nonprocedural areas.
   L.   Effective measures shall be taken to prevent the entrance of insects,
vermin, and rodents into the establishment, such as screened openings and
automatic closures on doors. No insects, vermin, and rodents shall be present
in any part of the establishment, its appurtenances, and appertaining premises.
   M.   All body art technicians working on behalf of a licensed body art
establishment shall be at least twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-
4-2009)
3-22-5: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person shall perform or license the performance of body art
procedures upon a person under eighteen (18) years of age without the presence,
photo identification, and written consent of the minor's parent or legal
guardian. A technician or body art establishment may refuse to perform a body
art procedure on a minor regardless of parental consent.
   B.   No technician or body art establishment shall perform or license the
performance of body art procedures on any person who appears incoherent for any
reason, or appears to be under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
   C.   No technician or body art establishment shall perform or license the
performance of body art procedures on any skin or mucosa surface where a rash
or any visible infection is present.
   D.   No person affected with boils, infected wounds, open sores, abrasions,
keloids, weeping dermatological lesions, or acute respiratory infection shall
work in any area of a body art establishment in any capacity in which there is
a likelihood that the person could contaminate body art equipment, supplies,
instruments, or working surfaces with body substances or pathogenic organisms.
   E.   Ear piercing systems using studs and clasps shall not be used anywhere
on the body other than the outer perimeter and lobe of the ear.
   F.   No technician or body art establishment shall perform or license the
performance of any procedures implanting any object(s) under the skin, such as
ball bearings, beads, etc.
   G.   Smoking, eating, or drinking is strictly prohibited in the body art
procedure area. No technician shall perform any body art procedure if under the
influence of alcohol or drugs. No alcoholic beverages are to be on the body art
establishment premises while body art procedures are being performed. (Ord.
2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-6: CLIENT MEDICAL HISTORY:
   A.   Prior to performing any body art procedure, in order to properly
evaluate the client's medical condition for receiving a body art procedure, the
technician shall specifically request from the client verbally and in writing
the following information:
      1.   History of diabetes;
      2.   History of hemophilia (bleeding);
      3.   History of skin diseases, skin lesions or skin sensitivities to
soaps, disinfectants, etc.;
      4.   History of allergies or adverse reactions to pigments, dyes, or
other skin sensitivities;
      5.   Current or recent medications such as anticoagulants, which thin the
blood or interfere with blood clotting; and
      6.   Any other information that would aid in evaluating the client's body
art healing expectations.
   B.   Prior to performing any body art procedure, the technician shall obtain
a release form signed by the client confirming that the technician obtained or
attempted to obtain the medical history, and listing the information provided.
   C.   The technician may refuse to perform a body art procedure if the client
refuses to disclose the information requested. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-7: PERFORMANCE OF BODY ART PROCEDURES:
   A.   When performing body art procedures, the technician shall maintain a
high degree of personal cleanliness, conform to hygienic practices, wear clean
clothes, and his or her skin shall be free of rash or infection. Clothing worn
by the body art technician while performing body art procedures shall not be
worn by any person at any other time outside the body art establishment.
   B.   Before performing a body art procedure, the immediate skin and
surrounding skin area where the body art procedure is to be applied shall be
washed with soap and water or an approved surgical skin preparation, depending
on the type of body art to be performed. If shaving is necessary, a single use
disposable razor shall be used then discarded; or a safety razor with a single
service blade shall be used, the blade discarded, and then the reusable holder
shall be sterilized. After shaving, the skin and surrounding area shall be
washed with soap and water, and the washing pad shall be discarded.
   C.   Immediately before performing body art procedures on an individual, the
technician shall thoroughly wash his or her hands in hot running water with use
of liquid soap, then rinse his or her hands and dry them with disposable paper
towels. This shall be done as many times as necessary to remove contaminants.
After hand washing is completed, the technician shall don disposable medical
gloves.
   D.   The technician shall wear disposable gloves during all procedures.
Gloves shall be discarded after the completion of each procedure on an
individual client, and hands washed prior to donning the next set of gloves.
Under no circumstances shall a single pair of gloves be used on more than one
person. The use of disposable medical gloves does not preclude or substitute
for the hand washing procedures described herein.
   E.   If, prior to or while performing a body art procedure, the technician's
glove or gloves are pierced or torn or become contaminated by contact with any
nonclean surface or object, by contact with a third person, or otherwise, the
technician shall immediately discard the gloves, repeat the hand washing
procedure, and put on a fresh pair of gloves to complete the procedure.
   F.   Any instrument used for body art, which is contaminated during the
procedure, shall be discarded and replaced immediately with a new disposable or
sterilized instrument before the procedure resumes. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-8: EQUIPMENT, INSTRUMENTS, AND SUPPLIES; SANITATION AND STERILIZATION
PROCEDURES:
   A.   Both sterilized and clean instruments and supplies shall be stored in
clean, dry, covered containers.
   B.   All instruments used in body art procedures shall remain stored in
sterile packages until just prior to use. Sterile instruments and equipment
shall not be used if the package has been breached or the expiration date has
expired, without first repackaging and resterilizing.
   C.   All products used to check the flow of blood or to absorb blood shall
be single use and disposable.
   D.   All products applied to the skin, including body art stencils, shall be
single use and disposable. Petroleum jellies, soaps and other products used in
the application of stencils shall be dispensed and applied on the area to be
tattooed with sterile gauze or in a manner to prevent contamination of the
original container and its contents. The gauze shall be used only once and then
discarded.
   E.   All inks, dyes, pigments, needles, and instruments used shall be
specifically manufactured for performing body art procedures, and shall be used
according to manufacturer's instructions. The mixing of approved inks, dyes, or
pigments, or their dilution with potable water, is acceptable. Immediately
before applying a tattoo, the quantity of the dye to be used shall be
transferred from the dye bottle and placed into single use paper or plastic
cups or caps. Upon completion of the tattoo, these single cups or caps and
their contents shall be discarded.
   F.   Jewelry used in body art procedures shall be made only of the following
materials: surgical implant grade stainless steel, solid 14k or 18k white or
yellow gold; niobium; titanium; platinum; or a dense, low porosity plastic. All
jewelry shall be free of nicks, scratches, or irregular surfaces, and shall be
properly sterilized prior to use.
   G.   When assembling instruments used for performing body art procedures,
the technician shall wear disposable medical gloves and shall use medically
recognized techniques to ensure that the instruments and gloves are not
contaminated.
   H.   Single use items shall be discarded immediately after each use, and
shall not be used on more than one client for any reason.
   I.   Reusable cloth items shall be mechanically washed with detergent and
dried after each use.
   J.   Every body art establishment shall have a steam sterilizer unless only
sterile supplies and single use disposable instruments and products are used.
Sterilizers shall be located away from procedure areas and areas frequented by
the public.
   K.   The following process shall be followed after each use for all
nonsingle use, nondisposable instruments used for body art:
      1.   The instrument shall be cleaned by scrubbing with an appropriate
soap or disinfectant solution and hot water, or by following the manufacturer's
cleaning instructions, to remove blood and tissue residue;
      2.   The instrument shall be placed in an autoclave sterilization unit,
which shall be operated in accordance with manufacturer's instructions;
      3.   The instrument shall be packed individually in a peel pack
containing either a sterilizer indicator or internal temperature indicator, and
sterilized;
      4.   Peel packs shall be dated with an expiration date not to exceed
sixty (60) days, and before the expiration of such time shall be resterilized.
   L.   Sterilizers shall be used, cleaned, and maintained according to
manufacturer's instructions. A copy of the manufacturer's recommended
procedures for the operation of the sterilization unit shall be available for
inspection by the city's representative.
   M.   Each body art establishment shall demonstrate by monthly spore
destruction tests that the sterilizer used is capable of attaining
sterilization. The tests shall be verified through an independent laboratory.
Tests records shall be retained for a period of three (3) years, and shall be
made available to city officials upon request. The establishment license shall
not be issued or renewed until the city receives documentation of the
sterilizer's ability to destroy spores. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-9: STORAGE AND DISPOSAL OF WASTE:
   A.   Storage of biomedical waste on site shall not exceed thirty (30) days.
   B.   Sharps shall be disposed of in approved sharps containers.
   C.   All products used to check the flow of blood or to absorb blood shall
be disposed of immediately after use in appropriate covered containers, unless
the disposal product meets the definition of biomedical waste.
   D.   Nonbiomedical waste which does not release liquid blood or body fluids
when compressed, or does not release dried blood or body fluids when handled,
shall be placed in a covered receptacle and disposed of through normal,
approved disposal methods.
   E.   Biomedical waste which may release liquid blood or body fluids when
compressed, or which may release dried blood or body fluids when handled, shall
be placed in an approved "red" bag marked with the international biohazard
symbol, and disposed of by a biomedical waste transporter registered by the
Illinois department of health. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-10: CITY MANAGER OR DESIGNEE TO ENFORCE:
The city manager or his designee (described throughout this chapter as "the
city's representative") is hereby designated as the person charged with
enforcing the provisions of this chapter. The city's representative shall have
the following powers and duties:
   A.   To administer and rule upon license applications as set forth in this
chapter;
   B.   To conduct and provide for inspections of body art establishments as
shall be necessary to determine and ensure compliance with the provisions of
this chapter and other applicable provisions of law;
   C.   To conduct such hearings on license suspension or revocation as
required pursuant to this chapter;
   D.   To take such further action as necessary to carry out the purposes and
intent of this chapter and to exercise such additional powers in furtherance
thereof as are implied or incident to those powers and duties expressly set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-11: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   All body art establishment and body art technician licenses shall be
renewed annually by submitting a relicensing application to the city's
representative at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to May 1 of each year.
Whenever an inspection for renewal of a license reveals serious or repeated
violations of this chapter or other provisions of this code, the license shall
not be issued and the city's representative shall notify the applicant
immediately thereof. Any such notice shall set forth in writing the reasons for
failing or refusing to renew the license. Such notice shall also state that an
opportunity for a hearing shall be provided for the applicant at a time and
date designated by the city's representative. Such hearing shall be scheduled
not later than ten (10) calendar days from the date of the notice. A license
which expires without being renewed shall be removed from the body art
establishment.
   B.   If the applicant for renewal of a license provides adequate
documentation of a reasonable time schedule for correcting nonhealth
threatening repeat violations, the city may renew the license. Failure to
comply with the time schedule for corrections may result in immediate
suspension of the license as provided herein. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-12: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING; COMPLIANCE CONFERENCE:
Whenever a license holder fails to comply with a notice to correct repeated
violations, the license holder may be required to attend a compliance
conference with the city manager, the building official and other parties
deemed necessary by the city manager and the license holder. The intent of this
conference shall be to achieve compliance with the provisions of this chapter
prior to invoking license suspension or revocation proceedings. (Ord. 2009.03,
5-4-2009)
3-22-13: LICENSE SUSPENSION:
   A.   A license may be suspended temporarily by the city for failure by the
license holder to comply with the requirements of this chapter or other
provisions of this code. Whenever a license holder has failed to comply with
any notice issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the license
holder shall be notified in writing that the license is, upon service of a
notice, immediately suspended or that the suspension shall be effective on a
specific future date, and that an opportunity for a hearing will be provided if
a written request for a hearing is filed with the city clerk within three (3)
days of the suspension notice date. The license holder shall be afforded a
hearing as soon as practicable.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if the city finds
unsanitary or other conditions, which, in the judgment of the city's
representative, constitute a substantial hazard to the public health, the
license may be immediately suspended. A license may be suspended without
warning or notice of hearing, and upon conditions, specifying the corrective
action to be taken and specifying the time period within which such action
shall be taken. If deemed necessary, such order shall state that the license is
immediately suspended and all body art procedures are to cease at once. Any
person to whom such an order is issued shall comply immediately; but upon
written petition filed with the city clerk within three (3) days of the
suspension date, the license holder shall be afforded a hearing as soon as
practicable. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-14: REINSTATEMENT OF SUSPENDED LICENSE:
Any license holder whose license has been suspended may at any time make
application for a reinspection for the purpose of license reinstatement. This
application shall include a statement signed by the applicant that, in said
applicant's opinion, the conditions resulting in suspension of the license have
been corrected. The application shall also contain any necessary documentation
required by the city's representative to assure compliance with the notice to
correct. Within three (3) business days following receipt of a written request,
the city's representative shall make a reinspection or otherwise evaluate the
written request. If the applicant is found to be in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and other provisions of this code, the license
shall be reinstated. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-15: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   For serious or repeated violations of any of the requirements of this
chapter or other provisions of this code, including, without limitation,
unlawfully operating a body art establishment or performing body art procedures
without having first obtained the appropriate license as required by this
chapter, or for interference with the city's representative in the performance
of any of his or her duties as set forth herein, any body art establishment
license may be permanently revoked after an opportunity for a hearing has been
provided by the city.
   B.   Prior to the revocation provided for in subsection A of this section,
the city's representative shall notify the license holder in writing stating
the reasons for which the license is subject to revocation and advising that
the license shall be permanently revoked at the end of five (5) calendar days
following service of such notice, unless a request for a hearing is filed with
the city by the license holder within such five (5) calendar day period. A
license may be suspended for cause pending its revocation or a hearing relative
thereto. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-16: NOTICES:
Notice provided for in this chapter is properly served when it is delivered to
the license holder or the person managing a body art establishment holding a
license, or when it is sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the license holder. A copy of the
notice shall be maintained in the city's records. A completed inspection report
form or a letter are considered proper forms of notice. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-
2009)
3-22-17: HEARINGS, IN GENERAL:
Hearings provided for in this chapter shall be conducted in a time and place
designated by the city's representative. Hearings shall be held before a body
art hearing committee consisting of the city's police chief or designee, city
treasurer or designee, and a paramedic designated by the fire chief. Based upon
the record of the hearing, the body art hearing committee shall make written
findings and shall sustain, modify, or rescind any official notice or order of
the city's representative considered in the hearing. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-18: RIGHT TO INSPECT AND EXAMINE RECORDS:
The city's representative may conduct inspections as often as necessary
throughout the year to ensure compliance with this chapter and other provisions
of this code. The city's representative, after providing proper identification,
shall be permitted to enter any body art establishment at any reasonable time,
but in no event less than all hours said establishment is open for business for
the purpose of making inspections and to determine compliance with this chapter
and other provisions of this code. He or she shall be permitted to examine the
records of the body art establishment to obtain information pertaining to any
matter regulated herein. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-19: REPORT OF INSPECTIONS:
Whenever an inspection of a body art establishment is made, the findings shall
be reported on an inspection report form. The inspection report form shall
summarize the requirements of this chapter. Inspection remarks shall be written
and shall state any correction to be made. Following such inspection, a copy of
the inspection report shall be furnished to the licensee. The completed
inspection reports are public documents that shall be made available for public
inspection to any person who requests same according to the Illinois freedom of
information act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7, and amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-2009)
3-22-20: CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The completed inspection report form shall specify a reasonable period
of time for the correction of any violations found. Correction of a violation
shall be accomplished within the period specified in accordance with the
following provisions:
      1.   If an imminent health hazard exists, the body art establishment or
body art technician shall immediately cease body art procedures;
      2.   For serious violations, violations shall be corrected as soon as
possible, but in any event, within ten (10) business days following inspection.
Within fifteen (15) days following inspection, the license holder shall receive
notice by the city's representative stating that violations have been
corrected. A follow up inspection, as deemed necessary by the city's
representative, shall be conducted to confirm correction;
      3.   Nonserious violations shall be corrected as soon as possible, but in
any event, by the time of the next routine inspection;
   B.   Failure of the license holder to comply with any time limits for
corrections may result in city's representative ordering the cessation of body
art procedures. An opportunity for hearing on the inspection findings or the
time limitations or both will be provided if a written request is filed with
the city clerk within ten (10) calendar days following cessation of operations.
If a request for hearing is received, a hearing shall be held as soon as
practicable.
   C.   Whenever a body art establishment is required under the provisions of
this chapter to cease performing body art procedures, they shall not resume
such procedures until it is shown upon reinspection that the conditions
responsible for the order to cease procedures no longer exists. Opportunity for
reinspection shall be offered within a reasonable time. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-
2009)
3-22-21: LICENSE FEES AND PAYMENT:
   A.   Annual license fees for body art technicians and body art
establishments shall be paid to the accounts and finance office by certified
check and shall be as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
   B.   If a body art establishment changes location, the licensee shall be
required to pay, in addition to the annual license fee, a reinspection fee as
set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2009.03, 5-4-
2009; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-22-22: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THIS CHAPTER:
   A.   Any person who violates, neglects, refuses to comply with or exists or
participates in any way in the violation of any of the provisions or
requirements of this chapter commits an offense. Any person committing any
offense under this chapter shall be fined in accordance with the general
penalty provisions in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord.
2009.03, 5-4-2009; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 23
DONATION BOXES
SECTION:
3-23-1: Definitions
3-23-2: License Required
3-23-3: Application For License; Fee
3-23-4: Requirements And Restrictions
3-23-5: Revocation Of License
3-23-6: Penalty
3-23-1: DEFINITIONS:
   DONATION BOX: An unattended container, receptacle, or similar device that is
used for soliciting and collecting donations of clothing or other salvageable
personal property. This term does not include any unattended donation box
located within a building. The term also does not include book exchange boxes
located in front of private residences or collection boxes for salvageable
personal property under 2.5 cubic feet in size. (Ord. 2016.30, 10-3-2016, eff.
5-1-2017)
3-23-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place a donation
box or to allow to be placed or permit the placement of a donation box without
first having obtained a license as herein provided. This does not apply to
donation boxes adjacent to, attached to or inside of a building on the property
of not for profits and businesses that align with the organization's mission as
these would be considered accessory structures. (Ord. 2016.30, 10-3-2016, eff.
5-1-2017)
3-23-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
An application for a license under this chapter shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of section
3-1-1 of this title relating to applications for licenses. An application for
the placement of a donation box shall specify the type of merchandise being
collected, the number of and locations of the donation boxes being placed,
include written authorization from the property owner(s), and specify whether
the organization operating the donation box is for profit or not for profit.
The annual fee for donation box licenses shall be as set out in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. The fee will be waived for not for profit
organizations that operate and serve DeKalb County; however, a license is
required unless the box is adjacent to, attached to or inside of the building.
Any applicable building codes may apply. (Ord. 2016.30, 10-3-2016, eff. 5-1-
2017; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-23-4: REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Placement of a donation box is permitted only in C-3, highway business
district and M-1 and M-2 manufacturing districts.
   B.   The donation box owner shall submit written authorization from the
property owner consenting to the placement of a donation box on the subject
property. The property owner and the organization operating the donation box
are responsible to ensure the donation box operation meets all requirements of
this code.
   C.   Donation box owners must respond to any and all complaints regarding
donation box maintenance within twenty four (24) hours of receiving
notification Monday through Friday and forty eight (48) hours of receiving
notification Saturday and Sunday.
   D.   Donation boxes shall not be placed within a required front or corner
side yard. To the extent feasible, donation boxes shall be placed in the rear
or side of a property so as to be inconspicuous as viewed from public rights of
way.
   E.   Donation boxes shall not be placed in such a manner as to cause a sight
obstruction for pedestrians or motorists.
   F.   Only one donation box shall be permitted per lot or per retail center,
school, church, or not for profit organization property, whichever is more
restrictive.
   G.   Donation boxes shall not exceed six and one-half feet (6.5') in height.
   H.   Donation boxes shall not possess a footprint exceeding twenty (20)
square feet.
   I.   Donation boxes shall indicate whether the operator is a for profit or
not for profit organization in two inch (2") type visible from the front of the
donation box.
   J.   Donation boxes shall contain the following contact information in two
inch (2") type visible from the front of the box: the name, address, e-mail,
and phone number of the owner of the donation box.
   K.   Donation boxes shall be maintained in good condition and appearance
with no structural damage, holes, or visible rust and shall be free of
graffiti. All boxes shall be serviced regularly so as to prevent overflow of
collections or the accumulation of junk, debris, or other material. (Ord.
2016.30, 10-3-2016, eff. 5-1-2017)
3-23-5: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any licensee who is found guilty of three (3) or more violations of the
provisions of this chapter will be subject to immediate revocation of their
license without notice. (Ord. 2016.30, 10-3-2016, eff. 5-1-2017)
3-23-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. In addition, any
licensee whose license has been revoked or any person who places a donation box
without a license will be required to remove the donation box within forty
eight (48) hours after receiving notice to remove same. The city may cause the
removal of and disposal of any box remaining after said forty eight (48) hour
period. In this event, the licensee and the property owner on whose property
the donation box was located shall be subject to a removal fee as set out in
the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. The licensee and the property
owner on whose property the donation box is placed shall be jointly and
severally liable for adhering to the provisions of this chapter and any fees or
penalties associated therewith. (Ord. 2016.30, 10-3-2016, eff. 5-1-2017; Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 24
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
SECTION:
3-24-1: Definitions
3-24-2: Permit Required
3-24-3: Application For Permit; Fee
3-24-4: Requirements
3-24-5: Issuance Or Denial Of Permit
3-24-6: Expiration Of Permit; Renewal
3-24-7: Revocation Of Permit
3-24-8: Appeals
3-24-9: Constitutional Guarantees
3-24-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms are hereby
defined:
 
                    The location of a mobile food vending operation that is the
FIXED POINT:        primary place from which the business will operate within
                    the City of Sycamore.
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: A food vending operation that prepares/serves food from a
                    permitted vehicle, trailer, or cart.
                    For the purposes of mobile food vending, a special event
SPECIAL EVENT:      shall mean a temporary operation and location, as part of
                    an event or gathering such as fundraisers, company picnics,
                    block parties, weddings, etc. (Ord. 2022.02, 5-2-2022)
 
3-24-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for a mobile food vendor as defined in Section
3-24-1 of this chapter, to engage in such business within the City without
first obtaining a permit in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
This chapter shall not apply to non-profit organizations selling concessions.
Ice Cream Trucks are regulated in Section
3-4-6 of this Title.
A violation of this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2022.02, 5-2-2022)
3-24-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   Application: Every mobile food vendor shall, prior to engaging in such
activity, make application to the City Clerk’s office for a mobile food vendor
permit with the following:
      1.   A copy of the Applicant’s Permit for Mobile Vending Unit issued by
the DeKalb County Health Department;
      2.   Name, address, and Federal Employer Identification Number of the
business;
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the business;
      4.   Name and address of applicant;
      5.   The timeframe (months of operation) and the hours of operation the
applicant wishes to be engaged in such activity (Special Event Permit or Fixed
Point Mobile Food Vendor Permit);
      6.   A description of the vehicle, trailer, or cart including any license
plate number or other means of identification;
      7.   A drawing depicting the location of the vehicle, trailer, or cart
and identifying any additional requirements as required in Section
3-4-4;
      8.   A statement of whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a
felony and if so, what, when, and where.
   B.   Fee: At the time of filing the application, a fee as set out in the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule shall be delivered to the City Clerk
payable to the City. Further, at the same time of filing the application, the
following fees shall be paid to the City by the applicant:
      1.   Special Event Mobile Food Vendor Permit: Applicable fees are
provided for in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      2.   Fixed Point Mobile Food Vendor Permit: Applicable fees are provided
for in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2022.02, 5-2-2022;
Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-24-4: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Special Event Mobile Food Vendors:
      1.   Permits for the operation of special event mobile food vending will
be reviewed on a case-by-case basis with an emphasis on public safety. Zoning,
location, hours of operation, parking requirements, etc., will be reviewed as a
special event following the same process used for outdoor special events and
catered special events defined in Section
3-2-6. In cases where an applicant desires a special event under Section
3-2-6, mobile food vendor permits will be reviewed in conjunction with outdoor
special event or catered special event permits.
      2.   All mobile food vendors for special events shall possess a permit as
defined in section
3-24-2 and remain in good standing with the City.
   B.   Fixed Point Mobile Food Vendors: Fixed point mobile food vendors are
permitted in C-2 Central Business District (except the downtown area as defined
in the Unified Development Ordinance), C-3 Highway Business District, M-1 Light
Manufacturing District, and M-2 Heavy Manufacturing District, provided the
location meets the following:
      1.   Each vendor must receive written authorization from the property
owner on the form provided by the City.
      2.   The location cannot be within two hundred fifty feet (250') from the
property line of any other permanent prepared food service vendor. This
provision may be waived in writing by the impacted business(es).
      3.   The entire vehicle, trailer, or cart must comply with all setback
requirements for the zoning district in which the mobile food vending operation
will occur. A minimum twenty-five feet (25') setback is required for any zoning
classification if the required setbacks are less. The location of mobile food
vending operations and equipment shall be entirely at or behind the front plane
of any building or structure related to the primary use of the property. An
exception will be made to allow mobile food vendors to operate beyond the front
plane of the building when a business or property has more than one hundred
(100) parking stalls (subject to staff review).
      4.   A minimum of five (5) dedicated parking spaces beyond those required
for the primary business are required.
      5.   A drawing to scale depicting the location of any vehicles or
equipment used in the mobile food vending operation, including compliance with
setbacks and dedicated parking spaces is required to be submitted with the
application for a fixed point mobile food vendor permit.
   C.   General Requirements:
      1.   Signs: Signage, flags, banners, etc. shall be consistent with
standards approved by the Community Development Department from time to time.
      2.   Public Health and Safety: All mobile food vendors shall meet public
safety requirements, including health, sanitation, and fire and life safety
requirements. Food may only be dispensed from a properly sanitized conveyance
licensed by the DeKalb County Public Health Department. Applicants shall
demonstrate proof of valid Food Safety permit from the DeKalb County Health
Department and comply with all required regulations during the duration of the
City’s permit. Failure to maintain a Food Safety permit from the DeKalb County
Health Department will result in an immediate termination of the City’s mobile
food vendor permit.
      3.   Fire and Life Safety: Requirements for fire and life safety shall
generally be the same as those applied to other restaurants within the City.
Additionally, mobile food vendors preparing food on-site shall conform with
NFPA standards for “Mobile and Temporary Cooking Operations” (NFPA 1: Fire
Code, Ch. 50.7 & Annex “B”) and standards for “Ventilation Control and Fire
Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations” (NFPA 96) and ensure gas or fuels
are separated from the cooking/serving area and smoke and carbon monoxide
detectors are installed.
      4.   Safety Inspections: Any vehicle over 8,000 lbs. and trailers with a
gross weight over 5,000 lbs. shall obtain an Illinois Department of
Transportation Certificate of Safety. Safety inspections are required every six
months. Garages or service stations licensed by the Illinois Department of
Transportation (IDOT) may conduct safety inspections.
      5.   Sight-triangle: Vehicles and equipment shall be arranged so as not
to limit a driver’s visibility.
      6.   Sanitization: Mobile food vendors shall have access to a toilet with
hand sanitization, within three hundred feet (300') of the portable vending
operation, at all hours that the facility is open for business.
      7.   Waste: Mobile food vendors shall provide a stable waste receptacle
that is emptied and maintained on a regular basis.
      8.   Electricity: If any power is required, it shall be protected with
ground fault circuit interrupters and be provided through a properly sized, UL
approved card that is safely installed.
      9.   Inspection: Staff will conduct inspections to ensure compliance with
the provisions of this chapter as necessary. (Ord. 2022.02, 5-2-2022)
      10.   Applicable fees are provided for in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2022.02, 5-2-2022; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
3-24-5: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.    Submittal to Clerk:
      1.   If the applicant does not satisfactorily meet any of the above
requirements, no permit should be issued. If the above requirements are
satisfactorily met, then a permit shall be issued.
   B.   Contents of Permit; Transferability:
      1.   The permit herein required shall express the time the mobile food
vendor is permitted to operate and continue, the name of the person and the
article, identification of a vehicle, if any, and whether said permittee will
pass from place to place or remain at a fixed point or place within the City.
      2.   Permits shall not be assignable or transferable and shall be
identified as a “mobile food vendor permit,” specifying “special event” or
“fixed point” with an identifying number and date of purchase.
      3.   Each registrant shall affix his signature to the “mobile food vendor
permit” as required by this section. (Ord. 2022.02, 5-2-2022)
3-24-6: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL:
   A.   Term; Expiration: Special event mobile food vendor permits shall be
granted for one-year for the period of January 1 to December 31 and fixed-point
mobile food vendor permits shall be for the period requested within the
requirements outlined in Section
3-24-3, above. (Ord. 2022.02, 5-2-2022)
3-24-7: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Cause for Revocation: The permits issued pursuant to this chapter may
be revoked, after notice, for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for permit.
      2.   Any violation of this chapter.
      3.   Conviction of the permittee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude.
   B.   Notice of Revocation: Notice of revocation of a permit shall be given
in writing and set forth specifically the grounds for revocation. (Ord.
2022.02, 5-2-2022)
3-24-8: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Clerk regarding the
denial of application for a permit as provided in Section
3-24-5 of this chapter or in connection with the revocation of a permit as
provided for in Section
3-24-7 of this chapter, shall have the right to appeal to the City Council.
   B.   Such appeal shall be taken by filing a written statement setting forth
the grounds for the appeal, with the City Clerk within fourteen (14) days after
notice of the decision by the City Clerk has been mailed to the applicant’s
last known address.
   C.   The City Council shall schedule a hearing on such appeal at the next
regular council meeting. Notice of hearing shall be given to such person in the
same manner as provided in Section
3-24-7 of this chapter for notice of hearing on revocation. (Ord. 2022.02, 5-2-
2022)
3-24-9: CONSTITUTIONAL GUARANTEES:
No provision of this chapter shall be construed so as to deprive any person of
his right of freedom of religion or freedom of speech as guaranteed by the
constitution of the state or the constitution of the United States or as any
infringement upon businesses engaged in interstate commerce. (Ord. 2022.02, 5-
2-2022)
CHAPTER 25
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
3-25-1: Permit And Licensing Requirements
3-25-2: Application For License
3-25-3: Issuance Or Denial; Changes
3-25-4: Annual License Fee
3-25-5: Required Parking
3-25-6: Unlawful Residence In Trailers
3-25-7: Penalties
3-25-1: PERMIT AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No person shall construct a mobile home park without first obtaining a
permit to do so. All permits to construct, all licenses to operate and all
permits to make alterations therein shall be prominently displayed in the
office of mobile home parks.
   B.   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be nontransferable without
the written consent of the licensor; provided however, the licensor may not
withhold such consent where the provisions of this chapter have been met.
(Ord. 2019.21, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
3-25-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
To operate a mobile home park, as defined by the Illinois Compiled Statutes 1 ,
the applicant shall file with the City Clerk a written application setting
forth:
   A.   The full name and address of the applicant, or names and addresses of
the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the names and addresses of
the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the present or last
occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the application.
   B.   The location and legal description of the land upon which it proposes
to operate and maintain a mobile home park.
   C.   The proposed and existing facilities in the mobile home park for water
supply, sewage, garbage and waste disposal, fire protection and for a sanitary
community building, if required, which will include a description of toilets,
urinals, sinks, wash basins, slop sinks, showers and drains and the proposed
alterations therein and the maintenance thereof.
   D.   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon which the
mobile home park is to be located.
   E.   The calendar months of the year during which the applicant will operate
the mobile home park.
   F.   The plot plans of the mobile home park, building plans and
specifications for existing buildings and facilities or the proposed
alterations in existing facilities, all as may be required by the rules and
regulations of the city under the provisions of this chapter.
   G.   A statement of the firefighting facilities, public or private, which
are available to the mobile home park.
   H.   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters contained
in the application shall be attached thereto.
   I.   Application Fee: Each application shall be accompanied by an
application fee as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. Each
application fee shall be paid to the city in the amount of the application fee
only, and the application fee once paid to the city shall not be refunded.
(Ord. 2019.21, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 210 ILCS 115/2.5
3-25-3: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL; CHANGES:
   A.   Review of Application; Denial or Issuance; Resubmittal: Upon receipt of
an application for a permit to construct a mobile home park or an application
for a license to operate and maintain the same, the Mayor shall, with Council
approval, if the park is or the proposed park will be in conformity with this
chapter, issue a permit to construct or an original license as the case may be.
If the application for a permit to construct or a license is declined, the city
shall give the reasons therefor, in writing, to the applicant, and if the
objections can be corrected, the applicant may amend his application and
resubmit it for approval. If a permit to construct a mobile home park has been
issued, the applicant upon completion thereof shall notify the city. The city
shall then inspect the mobile home park and if completed in accordance with the
accepted application, the city shall issue a license.
   B.   Changes; Fee: No change in any sanitary facilities, methods of water
supply, sewer, drainage, garbage or waste disposal, and no change in the plot
plan shall be made without first making a written application to the city and
receiving a written permit therefrom. Such application shall be made in the way
and manner hereinbefore set forth; except, that a fee as set by the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule shall accompany each application for a
permit to alter such mobile home park. No application fee shall be required to
accompany an application for a permit to alter a mobile home park where such
alteration involves only a reduction in the number of mobile home spaces to a
number less than that for which such mobile home park is currently licensed.
Such change shall comply with such safety and sanitary codes, building codes,
rules and regulations as are applicable thereto. (Ord. 2019.21, 9-16-2019, eff.
1-1-2020; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-25-4: ANNUAL LICENSE FEE:
   A.   License Fee; Due Date: In addition to the application fee provided for
herein, the licensee shall pay to the city on or before May 1 of each year an
annual license fee as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   B.   Supplemental License: The city may issue a supplemental license for
such additional mobile home spaces, when they are to be occupied before the end
of the license year for which year an annual license has been previously
issued. Supplemental license fees shall not be prorated; provided, that any
applicant for an original license to operate a new mobile home park constructed
under a permit issued by the city shall only be required to pay the annual
license fee, such fee shall not be prorated.
   C.   Nonrefundable: Each license fee shall be paid to the city in the amount
of the license fee and any license fee or any part thereof, once paid to and
accepted by the city, shall not be refunded. (Ord. 2019.21, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-
1-2020; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-25-5: REQUIRED PARKING:
There shall be at least two (2) off-street parking spaces available to each
individual mobile home lot and located within one hundred feet (100') of such
lot.
(Ord. 2019.21, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
3-25-6: UNLAWFUL RESIDENCE IN TRAILERS:
   A.   Permitting Use as Residence: It shall be unlawful for any owner or
lessee of any lot, tract, parcel or plot of land, whether improved or
unimproved, to permit the use of such lot, tract, parcel or plot of land by any
person whomsoever for the purpose of parking or otherwise occupying such lot,
tract, parcel or plot of land with any trailer, truck, bus, street car or
similar structure if used as a dwelling, abode, residence, habitation or home,
either temporary or permanent; provided however, the terms hereof shall not
apply where such parking or occupying shall not exceed fifteen (15) calendar
days' duration.
   B.   Using as Residence: It shall be unlawful for any person whomsoever to
park or otherwise occupy any lot, tract, parcel or plot of land either improved
or unimproved, on any street or alley, with any trailer, truck, bus, street car
or other similar structure if used as a dwelling, abode, residence, habitation
or home, either temporary or permanent; provided, however, the terms hereof
shall not apply where such parking or occupying shall not exceed fifteen (15)
calendar days' duration.
(Ord. 2019.21, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
3-25-7: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2019.21,
9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 26
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-26-1: Definitions
3-26-2: License Required
3-26-3: Requirement Of Massage Therapist
3-26-4: Exemptions
3-26-5: License Applications
3-26-6: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
3-26-7: Initial License Application Fee; Hours Of Operation
3-26-8: Term Of License; Annual License Fee
3-26-9: Transfer Of License
3-26-10: Massage Establishment Facilities
3-26-11: Operating Requirements
3-26-12: Inspection Of Massage Establishments
3-26-13: Employment Restrictions
3-26-14: Revocation Of License
3-26-15: Public Nuisance
3-26-16: Penalty
3-26-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
chapter shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
CERTIFIED      An individual who is licensed by the State of Illinois authorizing the
MASSAGE        practice of massage therapy under the Massage Licensing Act (225 ILCS 57/1)
THERAPIST:     who engages in the practice of massage for compensation.
               Any person, over eighteen (18) years of age, including a massage therapist,
EMPLOYEE:      who renders any service in connection with the operation of a massage
               business and receives compensation from the operator of the business or
               patrons.
HEALTH         The Director of the City of Sycamore Community Development Department or an
OFFICER:       authorized DeKalb County Health Department employee.
LICENSEE:      The operator of a massage establishment.
               A system of structured palpation or movement of the soft tissue of the body.
               The system may include techniques such as effleurage or stroking and gliding,
               petrissage or kneading, tapotement or percussion, friction, vibration,
               compression, and stretching activities as they pertain to massage therapy.
               These techniques may be applied by a licensed massage therapist with or
MASSAGE or     without the aid of lubricants, salt, or herbal preparations, hydro massage,
MASSAGE        thermal massage, or a massage device that mimics or enhances the actions
THERAPY:       possible by human hands. The purpose of the practice of massage, as licensed
               under this Code, is to enhance the general health and well-being of the mind
               and body of the recipient. “Massage” does not include the diagnosis of a
               specific pathology or those acts of physical therapy or therapeutic or
               corrective measures that are outside the scope of massage therapy practice as
               defined in this section.
               Any establishment having a fixed place of business within the City where any
MASSAGE        person, firm, association, or corporation engages in, or carries on, or
ESTABLISHMENT: permits to be engaged in or carried on, massage or massage therapy as defined
               herein by one or more persons licensed by the State of Illinois as a massage
               therapist.
MASSAGE        An individual who is actively enrolled in the field of massage therapy in an
THERAPIST IN   educational institution accredited by a state or any state government agency
TRAINING:      and is working under the direct supervision of a licensed certified massage
               therapist.
OUT-CALL       Any business, the function of which is to engage in or carry on massages at a
MASSAGE        location designated by the customer or client rather than a licensed massage
SERVICE:       establishment.
PERSON:        Any individual, partnership, firm association, joint stock company,
               corporation or combination of individuals of whatever form or character.
SEXUAL OR      Genitals, pubic area, anus or perineum of any person, or the vulva or breasts
GENITAL AREA:  of a female. (Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020)
 
3-26-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to engage in, conduct, carry on, or permit to be engaged
in, conducted, or carried on, in or upon any premises in the City, the
operating of a “massage establishment” as defined herein without first having
obtained a business license for a massage establishment from the City Clerk’s
office. (Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020)
3-26-3: REQUIREMENT OF MASSAGE THERAPISTS:
No individual employed at a massage establishment may perform or engage in
message services as defined in this chapter unless he or she is a certified
massage therapist licensed in the State of Illinois or a massage therapist in
training. Proof of state license for all certified message therapists employed
at a massage establishment shall be kept on file at the establishment. All
massage establishments must have at least one certified massage therapist
performing services on its behalf. (Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020)
3-26-4: EXEMPTIONS:
A license shall not be required of establishments or individuals where persons
engage in massage, massage therapy, or similar practices and are not required
to obtain a massage therapist license under Illinois law. This shall include,
but not be limited to, certain medical practitioners such as those individuals
identified by subsections (b) and (c) of Section 25 (Exemptions) of the Massage
Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 57/25(b) and (c). Further, a license shall not be
required of any individuals who perform massage therapy as certified massage
therapists through conducting a home occupation as defined by the Unified
Development Ordinance of the City of Sycamore. (Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020)
3-26-5: LICENSE APPLICATIONS:
Applications for any such license under this chapter shall be made to the City
Clerk, in writing, signed by the applicant or duly authorized agent thereof,
verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant;
   B.   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued;
   C.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license;
      1.   If the premises are leased, a copy of the lease shall be provided.
In the event the term of such lease ends prior to the expiration date of the
license for which application is being made, the license holder must provide a
new lease for the premises licensed thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of
the lease or the massage establishment license shall be void on its face.
      2.   The name and address of the owners or owners of the premises and the
names and address of all the owners of the beneficial interest of any trust if
said premises is held in trust.
   D.   A list of the name and address of all massage therapists performing
massage therapy at the massage establishment, including proof of age and each
massage therapist’s license issued by the State of Illinois pursuant to the
Massage Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 57/1 et seq.;
   E.   A statement that the applicant/its employees have not been convicted of
a felony within the last ten (10) years and are not disqualified to receive a
license by reason of any matter or thing contained in this chapter, or laws of
the State or ordinances of the City;
   F.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state or of the Unites States or any ordinances of the City in the conduct of
his/her place of business; and
   G.   A statement that the applicant will accept responsibility for the acts
of its employees or independent contractors who are licensed as a massage
therapist. (Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020)
3-26-6: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No such license shall be issued when:
   A.   The applicant when the license application is incomplete, missing
required documentation, is found to have false, misleading or fraudulent
statements of fact, or the correct license fee or other fees or fines owed to
the City of Sycamore have not been tendered;
   B.   The operation as proposed by the applicant, if permitted, would not
comply with all applicable laws, including but not limited to, the City’s
building, zoning, and health regulations;
   C.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law if determined within ten (10) years of the date of the application;
   D.   A person who has been convicted of any offense of or related to
pandering, prostitution, human trafficking, or crimes of sex defined by the
criminal laws of this state or local ordinance of this or any other
jurisdiction;
   E.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   F.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license under a first
application;
   G.   The applicant is a corporation, unless it is incorporated in Illinois
or unless it is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois
Business Corporation Act of 1983 to transact business in Illinois;
   H.   The applicant is a limited liability company, if any member or manager
thereof owning more than five percent (5%) of the membership of such company,
would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder;
   I.   The applicant is a limited liability company unless it is organized and
registered in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign limited liability company
which is qualified under Illinois law to transact business in Illinois; or
   J.   The applicant has had a license revoked, or license voluntarily
surrendered to avoid a revocation hearing, or license application denied within
five (5) years of the date of the application. (Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020)
3-26-7: INITIAL LICENSE APPLICATION FEE; HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   License Application Fee: Persons or firms that do not currently hold a
valid City massage establishment license shall pay an initial application fee
as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule at the time of
application. This fee shall cover the annual fee for the balance of the first
year of operation in accordance with
3-26-8 below.
   B.   Hours: All places engaged in massage or massage therapy shall be closed
between the hours of nine o’clock (9:00) P.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) A.M.
(Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
3-26-8: TERM OF LICENSE; ANNUAL LICENSE FEE:
Each license shall terminate on April 30 next following its issuance. The
annual license fee as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule
shall be paid in advance and there shall be no refund of any portion of the
same. The license application fee first submitted shall be used to pay the
annual fee for the balance of the fiscal year in which the applicant first
applies. (Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023) the applicant
first applies. (2020.05, 7-6-2020)
3-26-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
Licenses issued hereunder are not transferable to any other person or entity
under any circumstance. (Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020)
3-26-10: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT FACILITIES:
   A.   No massage establishment shall be issued a license nor be operated,
established, or maintained in the City unless an inspection by the Health
Officer and/or other City inspections reveal that the establishment complies
with each of the following minimum requirements:
      1.   All massage tables, bathtubs, shower stalls, steam or bath areas,
and floor shall have surfaces which may be readily disinfected;
      2.   Dressing and locker facilities shall be provided for the patrons to
be served at any given time. In the event male and female patrons are to be
served simultaneously, separate bathing, dressing, locker, and massage room
facilities shall be provided;
      3.   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing nondisposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages. Such nondisposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use of each patron;
      4.   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for storage of clean
linen, towels, and other materials used in connection with administering
massages. All soiled linens, towels, and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which containers or cabinets shall be
kept separate from the clean storage area;
      5.   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations.
Restroom facilities and fixtures shall be provided as prescribed by the current
edition of the Illinois Plumbing Code and the Illinois Equitable Restroom Act;
and
      6. The required lavatory or lavatories shall be installed within the
restroom(s). Additional lavatories or hand sinks may be required as deemed
necessary. Lavatories or washbasins shall be provided with soap and a dispenser
and with sanitary towels.
   B.   The Health Officer shall certify that the proposed massage
establishment complies with all the requirements of this section and shall send
such certificate to the City Clerk. (Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020)
3-26-11: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   B.   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted or provided in
brochures in the reception area in a location available to all prospective
customers.
   C.   All employees, including massage therapists, shall be clean and fully
covered in clean clothing from a point not to exceed four inches (4") above the
center of the kneecap to the base of the neck by opaque material, excluding the
arms and hands.
   D.   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets, and towels in sufficient quantity and shall be laundered after each use
thereof and stored in a sanitary manner.
   E.   The sexual or genital area of patrons must be covered by sheets,
cloths, or undergarments when in the presence of an employee or massage
therapist.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowingly, in a massage
establishment, to place his hand upon, or to touch with any part of his body,
to fondle in any manner, or to massage, a sexual or genital area of any other
person.
   G.   No massage therapist, employee, or operator shall perform, offer, or
agree to perform any act which would require the touching of a patron’s genital
area.
   H.   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs, steam rooms, and
all other physical facilities shall be in good repair and maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition. Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor rooms or steam
or vapor cabinets, shower compartments, and toilet rooms shall be thoroughly
cleaned after each day the business is in operation. Bathtubs and showers shall
be thoroughly cleaned after each use. When carpeting is used on the floors, it
shall be kept dry.
   I.   Oils, creams, lotions, or other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean, closed containers or cabinets and shall be
dispensed in unit doses so that said bulk containers are not contaminated
between clients.
   J.   Eating in the massage work areas shall not be permitted. Animals,
except for service animals, shall not be permitted in the massage work areas.
   K.   No liquor license shall be issued, and no liquor shall be sold,
provided, or consumed on the premise of any massage establishment.
   L.   No massage therapist shall administer a massage to a patron exhibiting
any skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation, or skin eruption unless a
physician duly licensed by the state certifies in writing that such person may
be safety massaged, prescribing the conditions thereof.
   M.   Each massage therapist shall wash his or her hands in hot running
water, using a proper soap disinfectant before administering a massage to each
patron.
   N.   Massage may be practiced only for the purposes of physical fitness,
relaxation, or medical therapy. The practice of massage for any other purpose
is prohibited.
   O.   The doors to the individual massage rooms and establishment shall not
be locked or obstructed during hours of operation.
   P.   No massage establishment shall be equipped with tinted or one-way glass
in any room or office.
   Q.   Every holder of a massage establishment license shall display a legible
and current copy of the license in a conspicuous place in the lobby or waiting
area in the massage establishment.
   R.   Every holder of a license as a massage therapist shall display a
legible and current copy of his/her license in a conspicuous place in the lobby
or waiting area in any and all the licensee’s places of practice within the
City. (Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020)
3-26-12: INSPECTION OF MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS:
A Health Officer or his/her authorized designee, the Chief of Police or his/her
authorized designee, or the Director of the City of Sycamore Community
Development or his/her authorized designee, shall from time to time, and at
least once a year, make an inspection of each massage establishment granted a
license under the provisions of this chapter for the purposes of determining
that the provisions of this chapter are complied with. Such inspections shall
be made at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner. It shall be unlawful
for any licensee to fail to allow such inspection officer access to the
premises or to hinder such officer in any manner. (Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020)
3-26-13: EMPLOYMENT AGE RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor, manager, or other person in
charge of any massage establishment to employ any person who is not at least
eighteen (18) years of age to perform massage therapy services. (Ord. 2020.05,
7-6-2020)
3-26-14: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked or suspended by the Mayor
after a hearing for good cause or in any case where any of the provisions of
this chapter are violated or any employee of the licensee is engaged in any
conduct at the licensee’s place of business which violates any of the
provisions of this chapter or any state law. Such license may also be revoked
or suspended by the Mayor after hearing upon recommendation of the Health
Officer that such business is being managed, conducted, or maintained without
regard for the public health or health of patrons or customers or without due
regard to proper sanitation or hygiene.
Before revoking any license, the Mayor shall give the licensee at least ten
(10) days’ written notice of the charges against the licensee and the
opportunity for a hearing before the Mayor, at which time the licensee may
present evidence bearing upon the question. In such cases, the charges shall be
specific and in writing. Any licensee requesting a hearing shall file a written
request within ten (10) days of the receipt of the Mayor’s notice. No
suspension or revocation shall take effect until after the lapse of any period
of time in which the licensee may request a hearing before the Mayor on such
suspension or revocation or the completion of any such hearing, as the case may
be. (Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020)
3-26-15: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any building or portion, used as a massage establishment in violation of this
Code or in violation of other state or federal law, with the knowing, reckless,
or negligent permission of the owner of the massage establishment or the owner
or the agent of the owner managing the building, together with all fixtures and
other property used in violation of this chapter are hereby declared to be a
nuisance. (Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020)
3-26-16: PENALTY:
Every person, except those who are specifically exempted by this chapter,
whether acting as an individual, operator, owner, employee of the owner, or
whether acting as a mere helper for the owner, employee, or operator, or acting
as a participant or working in any way, who gives massages or operates a
massage establishment without first obtaining a massage establishment or
certified massage therapist license from the City in accordance with this
chapter, or shall violate any provision of this chapter, shall upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule. (Ord. 2020.05, 7-6-2020; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Department Established
4-1-2: Membership; Appointments And Discharges
4-1-3: Powers And Duties
4-1-4: Supervision
4-1-5: Records
4-1-6: Attendance Of Firehouses
4-1-7: Ambulance Service
4-1-8: Collective Bargaining Agreements
4-1-9: Fire Protection Training Program
4-1-10: False Alarms
4-1-11: Open Burning
4-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There is hereby created and established a Fire Department, consisting
of a Fire Chief who shall be Chief of the department. Subordinate members of
the department shall consist of, in descending order:
Deputy Chief(s)
Captain(s)
Lieutenant(s)
   B.   Establishing and filling any or all of these positions shall be at the
City Manager's discretion and assigning their individual functions shall be at
the Fire Chief's discretion with Council approval. (Ord. 2018.23, 4-15-2019)
4-1-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENTS AND DISCHARGES:
   A.   General Personnel: Except for the Fire Chief, members of the Fire
Department shall, after examination, be appointed by the Fire and Police
Commissioners 1  and promotions shall be made in like manner as is provided by
law 2 , except for POC officers. (1988 Code §5.402; amd. 1994 Code)
   B.   Fire Chief: The Fire Chief shall be appointed by the City Manager with
the approval of the Council, but such appointment shall not be limited to
members of the Fire Department. The Fire Chief may be removed from office with
or without cause by the City Manager and four-fifths (4/5) of the Council;
however, a firefighter not otherwise subject to dismissal by the Council shall
not be dismissed as a firefighter merely by his dismissal from the Office of
Fire Chief, but shall resume his rank within the Fire Department held
immediately prior to his appointment as Chief with seniority added for his time
in office as Chief. (Ord. 97.46, 8-18-1997; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
   C.   Part Time And Volunteer Firefighters: Part time or volunteer
firefighters and POC officers shall be appointed by the City Manager with the
consent of the Council; shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age; shall
have a valid Illinois driver's license; and, shall have successfully completed
a Sycamore Fire Department physical and background investigation. (Ord.
2002.84, 3-17-2003; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
   D.   Discharges: No fireman shall be discharged, except after a hearing
before the Fire and Police Commissioners as is provided by statute 3 . (1988
Code §5.402)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 4 of this Code.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-4.
3 1. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-17.
4-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Function: It shall be the function and duty of the Fire Department and
every member thereof to extinguish accidental or destructive fires and to
prevent the occurrence or spread of such fires. (1988 Code §5.406)
   B.   Obedience To Orders; Unnecessary Force: It shall be the duty of every
member of the Fire Department to conduct himself in a proper and law abiding
manner, at all times, and to avoid the use of unnecessary force. Each member of
the department shall obey the orders and directions of his superior. (1988 Code
§5.407)
   C.   Enforcement Of Code: It shall be the duty of all members of the Fire
Department to see that the provisions of this Code relating to the Fire
Department and its work are enforced and to that end all such members are
hereby vested with the usual power and authority of police officers. (1988 Code
§5.408)
4-1-4: SUPERVISION:
   A.   Command At Fires: In case of fire, the Fire Chief and his deputies
shall rank in the order named, and the officer of the highest rank at the fire
shall take command of the Fire Department and direct the management thereof for
the suppression of the fire in the best manner possible, and when it may be
necessary for the protection of other property and to prevent the spread of the
conflagration, the officer in command may cause buildings to be removed, torn
down or destroyed in the best manner possible.
   B.   Equipment: The Fire Chief shall have the control, subject to the order
and direction of the City Council, of the Fire Department and all fire
apparatus belonging to the City. (Ord. 2018.23, 4-15-2019)
4-1-5: RECORDS:
The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all activities of the
department and of all fires occurring in the City with information as to their
cause and the estimated damage done. (1988 Code §5.405)
4-1-6: ATTENDANCE OF FIREHOUSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to enter the Fire Department station or any
place where the equipment and apparatus of the Fire Department is stored at any
time, except on business pertaining to the Fire Department or other City
business, or to remain thereon after such business is complete. It shall also
be unlawful for any person to enter or remain in the above premises after being
ordered not to do so by any member of the Fire Department or by any volunteer
firemen. (1988 Code §5.409)
4-1-7: AMBULANCE SERVICE:
   A.   Operation of Service: The Fire Department shall provide ambulance and
rescue service in cases of emergency requiring the prehospital care and
transportation of persons who are sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless at the time of the dispatch of a Fire Department
vehicle. The members shall undergo such training as required by State law for
such duty.
   B.   Fees for Service: The fee for ambulance service and prehospital care
provided by the Fire Department shall be the amount included in the most recent
annual report submitted by the City for the previous year to the Illinois
Department of Healthcare and Family Services and/or the Federal Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services reflecting the actual cost incurred for
transport of residents and nonresidents, without further action of the City
Council. (Ord. 97.38, 8-18-1997; amd. Ord. 2018.17, 4-1-2019; Ord. 2023.03, 5-
1-2023)
4-1-8: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS:
Subject to these provisions and subordinate thereto, the provisions of
collective bargaining agreements, from time to time, shall govern the
department. (1988 Code §5.412)
4-1-9: FIRE PROTECTION TRAINING PROGRAM:
   A.   The City hereby elects to participate in the programs provided for in
the Illinois Fire Protection Training Act. (Ord. 93.02, 5-3-1993)
   B.   The firefighter II certification and EMT-B certification and training
or, alternatively, EMT-P training and certification must be completed by the
applicant prior to a job offer. The failure of any applicant to complete such
basic training and certification prior to a job offer will render that
individual ineligible for employment. (Ord. 2002.15, 6-17-2002)
4-1-10: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   Any person, firm, corporation or institution having a fire alarm, smoke
detector or other type of alarm in a building owned, operated or under the
control of said person, firm, corporation or institution, and which has a
direct or indirect connection with calls for a response from the Sycamore Fire
Department or Sycamore Police Department, shall be charged a fee as set by the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   B.   For purposes of this section, "false alarm" shall mean any alarm
initiated for malicious purposes or because of a malfunctioning installed alarm
system.
   C.   For purposes of this section, each building shall be allowed three (3)
false alarms within the prescribed times where a person, firm, corporation or
institution should own, operate or control more than one building.
   D.   If an individual should be found to have violated the laws of the State
concerning false alarms, then the person, firm, corporation or institution that
owned, operated or controlled the building where such false alarm occurred
shall not be liable for the fee imposed under this section. (Ord. 99.29, 7-19-
1999; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
4-1-11: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Open Burning: This regulation covers recreational fires and bonfires.
   B.   Recreational Fires And Bonfires Defined: Recreational fires are
considered small fires for the purpose of enhancing social interaction, and for
religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth, or similar purposes. There are two (2)
types of recreational fires: those in outdoor fireplaces, and firepit or ground
fires. A bonfire is an outdoor fire generally used for ceremonial purposes and
requires a permit from the Sycamore Fire Department.
   C.   Burning Of Leaves Or Garden Debris Is Prohibited: The burning of
leaves, lawn rakings and landscape waste is prohibited. Such material shall be
placed in approved yard waste bags at curbside, with a weight of less than
fifty (50) pounds. Branches and limbs shall be tied in bundles no more than
four feet (4') in length and two feet (2') in diameter, not to exceed fifty
(50) pounds. The City contracts with a private hauler to collect such yard
waste between April 1 and November 30.
   D.   Recreational Fires In A Portable Outdoor Fireplace: An outdoor
fireplace is a commercially produced chamber, enclosure, or screened enclosure,
portable in design, for the purpose of containing a recreational fire of two
feet (2') or less in diameter and two feet (2') or less in height for pleasure,
religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth, or similar purposes. The products of
combustion will either pass through a chimney prior to being emitted into the
air or the chamber will be a screened enclosure with a lid covering the
screened area of combustion.
Recreational fires in a container such as an outdoor fireplace do not require a
permit. Recreational fires in an outdoor fireplace shall be at least fifteen
feet (15') from any structure. The devices shall not be allowed on combustible
surfaces. Fuel used for recreational fires shall be seasoned dry firewood or
charcoal only. The fire must be entirely contained within the outdoor
fireplace. The fire shall be attended at all times. A portable fire
extinguisher of at least a 4-A rating, or other approved on site fire
extinguishing equipment such as dirt, sand, or a garden hose shall be readily
available. Recreational fires may be extinguished by the fire department if the
fire is deemed a health or safety hazard.
   E.   Recreational Fires In A Fire Pit Or On The Ground: A fire pit should
generally be at least four inches (4") in depth and shall be surrounded on the
outside, aboveground, by noncombustible materials such as stone, steel, brick,
or masonry. Recreational fires in a fire pit or on the ground do not require a
permit.
The fire pit cannot exceed three feet (3') in diameter, nor may the fire pile
exceed two feet (2') in height. A fire on the ground should be contained with
rocks or noncombustible screening to contain the fuel within a dedicated space.
Recreational fires in a fire pit or on the ground shall be at least twenty five
feet (25') from any structure or combustible material. A fire should not be
started in a fire pit or on the ground when very dry conditions due to
exceptionally dry weather are present. In addition, conditions (such as dry
grass or other combustible material) which could cause a fire to spread within
twenty five feet (25') of a structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
The fire size shall not be greater than three feet (3') in diameter and two
feet (2') in height. Fuel used for recreational fires shall be dry firewood or
charcoal only. The fire shall be attended at all times. A portable fire
extinguisher of at least a 4-A rating or other approved on site fire
extinguishing equipment such as dirt, sand, garden hose shall be readily
available. Recreational fires may be extinguished by the fire department if the
fire is deemed a health or safety hazard.
   F.   Bonfires: A bonfire is an outdoor fire generally used for ceremonial
purposes and it requires a permit from the Sycamore fire department. A bonfire
shall not be conducted within fifty feet (50') of a structure or combustible
material unless the fire is contained in a barbecue pit. Conditions (such as
dry grass or other combustible material) which could cause a fire to spread
within fifty feet (50') of a structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition. A
permitted bonfire could be prohibited if very dry conditions exist due to
exceptionally dry weather and/or exceptionally windy conditions that could
spread the fire within fifty feet (50') of a structure. The bonfire shall not
exceed three (3) hours in duration. The fuel used for bonfires may be wood
pallets, dry firewood or other fuel approved by the fire department. The fire
shall be attended at all times. At least one portable fire extinguisher of a 4-
A rating or other approved on site fire extinguishing equipment such as dirt,
sand, garden hose shall be readily available. Bonfires may be extinguished by
the fire department if the fire is deemed a health or safety hazard.
   G.   Bonfire Permit: Bonfires can be permitted by the fire chief or his
designee, if requested ten (10) days prior to the date of burning. Bonfire
applications can be obtained from the Sycamore fire department, 535 DeKalb
Avenue, Sycamore, Illinois.
   H.   Extinguishment Ordered By Fire Department: The following are
circumstances wherein the fire department will require the immediate
extinguishment of the fire regardless if any or all other measures are met:
      1.   Very dry conditions due to exceptionally dry weather.
      2.   Exceptionally windy conditions.
      3.   The burning of construction materials of any type.
      4.   The burning of any CCA (green treated) wood.
      5.   The burning of any combustible material other than seasoned firewood
or charcoal.
      6.   Hazardous or objectionable open burning where the emission of smoke
or odors impact other persons in the vicinity of the fire.
      7.   The lack of a responsible person monitoring the fire.
      8.   The lack of on site fire extinguishing equipment.
When, in the opinion of the fire official, a hazard exists due to open burning
that is not conducted within the safe parameters defined in this section, the
fire official, using good sound judgment and in consideration of the conditions
that could present a hazard due to the use of the open fire, shall have the
authority to have the fire extinguished.
   I.   Amends Locally Adopted Fire Prevention Code: This section amends
section 307 of the 2006 international fire code in its entirety.
   J.   Enforcement: Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall
be subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule. (Ord. 2011.10, 7-5-2011; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Supervision By City Manager
4-2-3: Storage Regulations
4-2-4: Collection Of Garbage And Refuse
4-2-5: Construction Debris
4-2-6: Grass And Rubbish
4-2-7: Explosives And Inflammable Materials
4-2-8: Littering
4-2-9: Private Removal Services
4-2-10: Refuse Hauling Trucks
4-2-11: Penalties
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   LANDSCAPE WASTE: Grass, garden clippings, brush, leaves, tree clippings, and
other materials accumulated as a result of the maintenance of residential
lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees at occupied single-family residences or
multiple-family residences with four (4) or less units.
   RECEPTACLES: All depositories, whether kept indoors or outdoors, maintained
in good order for the disposition of refuse.
   REFUSE: All household waste placed out for collection, such as discarded
food or food residues and paper used for wrapping same; books, boxes, cartons,
and all such materials.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT: A building or portion thereof designed or utilized for
occupancy by one family for living or sleeping purposes and having one kitchen.
(Ord. 2007.26, 9-17-2007)
4-2-2: SUPERVISION BY CITY MANAGER:
All matters relating to or affecting the collection or removal of refuse,
unless specified otherwise, shall be subject to the supervision of the city
manager. (1988 Code §18.201; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
4-2-3: STORAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Receptacles Required: All garbage and refuse shall be placed in a
receptacle for collection. Uncontainerized bags will not be collected. Each
residence will receive one 96-gallon trotter for refuse to be serviced once a
week. Senior citizens sixty five (65) years of age or older may elect to have a
thirty five (35) gallon trotter in lieu of the ninety six (96) gallon trotter.
As new homes are built and occupied, new homeowners will be furnished with one
96-gallon trotter. The trotter will remain the property of the garbage
collection contractor. Refuse in excess of the ninety six (96) gallon trotter
may be placed in a thirty two (32) gallon receptacle alongside the trotter on
collection day. (Ord. 2007.26, 9-17-2007)
   B.   Use Of Receptacles Required: It shall be the duty of all persons
causing garbage to be produced or brought into any house or building to deposit
the same into receptacles as soon as it is produced or brought into such house
or building.
   C.   Treatment Of Garbage: Excess or surplus liquids shall be drained from
all garbage before being deposited in such receptacles. All receptacles shall
be kept reasonably clean and sanitary. (1988 Code §18.204)
   D.   Approved Receptacles: In addition to the garbage collection contractor
provided trotter, garbage and refuse may be placed in a galvanized metal trash
can or plastic trash can with a maximum size of thirty two (32) gallons. There
shall be a fifty (50) pound weight limit per thirty two (32) gallon container.
(Ord. 2007.26, 9-17-2007)
4-2-4: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
   A.   Collection Times: Collection shall be once a week for each residential
dwelling unit. Scheduled pick up days that fall on or after a legal holiday
shall be one day late following the holiday that week. Household refuse and
yard waste will be collected between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) P.M. on the scheduled collection day. Have all items out by six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on collection day. Items for collection may be placed at the curb
after six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on the day before the scheduled pick up.
Residents must remove containers from the curb by eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on
the day of collection.
   B.   Eligibility For City Services: Garbage removal facilities shall be
afforded to the owners of all single-family, two-family and three (3) and four
(4) unit apartment buildings, under the direction of the city manager. The
owner, agent or the owner or occupant of every house in the city where garbage
is accumulated shall be eligible to take advantage of the city garbage removal
service.
   C.   Placement For Collection: To be eligible for garbage removal service,
all garbage must be placed in an approved receptacle next to the curbing of a
street or in an alleyway on each owner's or occupant's property on the days and
times designated by this section. If the requirements of this subsection are
not complied with, there will be no obligation to remove the garbage or refuse
collected by those not in compliance. The city or its contractor shall do no
unnecessary damage to the containers provided. All garbage and refuse deposited
in appropriate receptacles shall be securely wrapped, packaged or contained in
a manner such as to prevent blowing or scattering by the wind.
   D.   Yard Waste Collection: Yard waste is collected at the curb from April 1
through the end of November. All yard waste must be placed in a maximum thirty
three (33) gallon biodegradable kraft paper bag with a weight limit of fifty
(50) pounds per bag. Brush and tree trimmings must be bundled and tied with
biodegradable twine or string in distinct piles that are no longer than four
feet (4') in length and twenty four inches (24") in diameter, weighing no more
than fifty (50) pounds.
   E.   Fees: A fee shall be assessed and collected on a bimonthly basis and
the annual amount shall be set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule. The prorated fee shall be assessed and collected as part of the
billing and collection process for water. (Ord. 2007.26, 9-17-2007; amd. Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
4-2-5: CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS:
Refuse resulting from construction operations including earth, plaster, metal,
tile, brick, concrete, slate, shingles, tin, iron, and construction litter in
general, shall be removed and disposed of by and at the expense of the person
responsible for its production and in a manner and at places approved by the
city manager. (1988 Code § 18.212; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
4-2-6: GRASS AND RUBBISH:
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or deposit or cause to be dumped or
deposited any grass, leaves, branches or any other things in the roadway or
gutter of any public street in the city. (1988 Code §26.612)
4-2-7: EXPLOSIVES AND INFLAMMABLE MATERIALS 1 :
No person shall place or cause to be placed in receptacles provided for the
removal of refuse, any highly inflammable materials or explosives. (1988 Code
§18.213; amd. 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 5 of this title for explosives and fireworks regulations.
4-2-8: LITTERING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any kind of refuse in any
street, alley, public way, gutter, manhole or any other public place 1 .
A violation of this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code § 18.210; amd. Ord. 2005.78,
1-3-2006; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
 
Notes
1 See also section
  7-1-10 of this code.
4-2-9: PRIVATE REMOVAL SERVICES:
All privately owned or operated refuse removal services shall be licensed in
accord with the provisions of this code and shall pay a license fee as set by
the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2002.74, 2-17-2003; amd.
Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
4-2-10: REFUSE HAULING TRUCKS:
All trucks used for the collection of refuse shall be provided with watertight
bodies and an adequate covering, fully enclosing such materials while in the
process of transportation. (1988 Code §18.215)
4-2-11: PENALTIES:
   A.   General Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee Schedule.
   B.   Unauthorized Disposal: Any resident or nonresident who causes or
attempts to cause garbage to be picked up by the city or its agents or
contractors, or employee of either of the aforesaid, when said garbage or waste
products have been brought as such from outside a single-family residential
area of the city, shall be subject to penalty as provided in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code § 18.216; amd. 1994 Code; Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Nuisances Declared
4-3-2: Abatement of Nuisances
4-3-3: Penalties
4-3-1: NUISANCES DECLARED:
It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance for any person within the limits
of the city or within its territorial jurisdiction:
   A.   Vehicle Repairs: To conduct or carry on, permit, suffer, cause or allow
the conduct or carrying on of vehicle repairs, testing or testing operations on
any premises after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. in residential areas so as to cause
an unreasonable, offensive or alarming noise to others.
   B.   Cemeteries: To establish a cemetery within the corporate limits or
within one (1) mile of the limits thereof, without first having obtained
permission so to do by ordinance of the Council.
   C.   Renderies and Tanneries: To locate and carry on, without having
obtained permission of the Council so to do, any packing house, renderies,
tallow chandleries, glue or bone factories, soap factory or tannery.
   D.   Breweries and Distilleries: To locate in the city, without first having
obtained permission of the Council so to do, a brewery or distillery.
   E.   House of Prostitution: To knowingly conduct or carry on any house of
ill fame or assignation where men and women resort for the purpose of
prostitution.
   F.   Slaughterhouses: To slaughter or kill any cattle, hogs or sheep in
public view or keep, maintain or use therein any house or place in which the
business of slaughtering any of said animals may be carried on in the city
without a permit so to do from the Council.
   G.   Storage of Junk and Building Materials:
      1.   To deposit, store or place junk, trash, refuse or receptacles or
garbage containers other than as provided by section
4-2-4 B, C and D of this Title, and where such storage is not specifically
authorized under the provisions of the zoning regulations of the city. Junk,
trash, refuse and garbage receptacles are defined herein to include any and all
waste matter, whether reusable or not, which is offensive to the public health,
safety or to the aesthetics of the neighborhood and is specifically intended to
include, but not be limited to, substantial quantities of used paper,
wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood scraps, broken
glass, broken crockery and similar materials, old abandoned iceboxes,
refrigerators, stoves, tractors, machinery of any kind, any parts thereof, worn
out, wrecked or abandoned automobiles and an inoperative motor vehicle (see
also Title 6, Chapter 7 of this Code for inoperative motor vehicles) not
currently licensed by the State of Illinois or other state or country, exposed
to the view of the general public and not either enclosed in a building or
structure or located on the sales lot of a licensed automobile dealer.
      2.   To deposit or store building materials in such a manner that is
offensive to the public health, safety, or aesthetics of the neighborhood.
   H.   Smoke: To allow or permit any unreasonably dense smoke to come or be
emitted from any chimney or engine within the City.
   I.   Intoxicating Liquors: To sell directly or indirectly, or keep for sale,
or to give away in any place in the City intoxicating malt, vinous, mixed or
fermented liquors or other like drinks, in any quantity whatever unless the
same shall be kept, sold or given away under a permit or license duly granted
by the Council.
   J.   Cottonwood Trees: To plant or permit the growth of cottonwood trees or
box elder trees upon any premises to the injury of others.
   K.   Foul Substances: To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any
animal or vegetable matters, slop, swill, suds, garbage, filth, stable
drippings or offal or noisome substances of any kind to be collected, deposited
or to remain in any place in the City to the injury of others.
   L.   Deposit Of Offensive Matter: To throw or deposit or cause to be thrown
or deposited any offal or any offensive matter or the carcass of any animal, in
any watercourse, pond, spring or well or on any land.
   M.   Filth In Public Ways And Places: To deposit any night soil, dead animal
or other filthy, offensive or noisome substance upon any lot, street, alley,
highway, park or other public place.
   N.   Polluting Water Supply: To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the
water of any drinking hydrant, spring, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or
prejudice of others.
   O.   Offensive Premises: To keep, or suffer to be kept, in an unclean,
unwholesome, foul, offensive or nauseous condition any domestic animal
enclosure or pen, cellar, drain, pool, toilet, sewer or sink, upon any premises
or any railroad car, building, yard or grounds.
   P.   Privies: To erect or maintain any outside privy within the city.
   Q.   Keeping Animals, Fowl Or Domesticated Insects: Except for commonly
domesticated animals, certified service animals or certified therapeutic
animals, it shall be unlawful to keep or suffer any pigs or swine, sheep,
goats, cattle, horses, donkeys, mules, chickens or poultry, ducks, geese,
pigeons, turkeys, domesticated insects (honeybees), snakes over six feet (6')
in length or other life threatening reptiles similar in nature, or any other
agricultural or naturally wild animals in any stable, chicken coop, animal
enclosure, pen or hive within the limits of the city, except within the R-
4 rural residential district or on a temporary basis within the appropriate
commercial district provided such animals are for sale.
   R.   Cellars, Sewers And Drains: To suffer or permit any cellar, vault,
private drain, pool, sewer or sink upon any premises belonging to or occupied
by him to become nauseous, foul, offensive or injurious to the public health. A
failure to connect with the city sewer system shall also constitute a nuisance.
   S.   Weeds And Grass:
      1.   Definitions:
 
                          Include, but are not limited to, jimson, burdock,
NOXIOUS WEEDS AND PLANTS: ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, sweet clover or like
                          weeds which are unsightly, annoying or are otherwise
                          injurious to the health of the community.
UNSIGHTLY GROWTH:         To permit noxious weeds and plants to grow upon any
                          premises in the city.
 
      2.   Height Of Grass, Nonnoxious Weeds And Plants: It shall be unlawful
for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes,
flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding twelve inches
(12") anywhere in the city, except as provided in subsections S2a through S2c
of this section.
         a.   Occupied Lots: "Occupied lots" are defined as lots with
structures that are occupied, intended to be occupied, or have been occupied,
for residential, commercial, or industrial purposes. Occupied lots may have
vacant buildings. It shall be unlawful for any property owner to permit weeds,
grasses, or plants other than trees, bushes, vegetable gardens, flowers, or
other ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding nine inches (9"). Any
such plants exceeding such height other than those permitted shall be declared
a nuisance.
         b.   Improved Sites: "Improved sites" are defined as platted lots
served by streets and electrical, water, sewer, and other utility systems, but
for which a building permit has not been issued. It shall be unlawful for any
property owner to permit weeds, grasses, or plants other than trees, bushes,
vegetable gardens, flowers, or other ornamental plants to grow to a height
exceeding twelve inches (12"). Any such plants exceeding such height other than
those permitted shall be declared a nuisance.
         c.   Sites Under Construction: "Sites under construction" are lots on
which a building permit has been issued for structures intended for
residential, commercial, industrial, or other uses. From the date that a
building permit is issued until occupancy, or for a consecutive period of no
more than one hundred twenty (120) days from the date the building permit is
issued, whichever is less, weeds, grasses, or plants may grow unabated.
However, if such plants present a noxious condition or pose a threat to public
safety by blocking vision at intersections or other such conditions, the city
manager may order their trimming to a height of twelve inches (12") or less
following a written complaint by any property owner within one hundred fifty
feet (150'). Upon the passage of one hundred twenty (120) days, the property
owner shall thereafter trim and maintain all weeds, grasses, or plants to a
height of twelve inches (12") or less.
   T.   Rodents And Insects: To permit any building, structure or place to
become a breeding place for flies, mosquitoes, rats, mice or other rodents or
insects.
   U.   Barberry Bushes: It shall be a nuisance and unlawful to plant or permit
the growth of the bush of the species of tall, common or European barberry,
further known as Berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties within the
city.
   V.   Garbage:
      1.   To leave garbage or debris on private property so as to endanger the
public health. Notwithstanding any other penalties provided for such conduct
elsewhere by ordinance or statute, the ordinance officer may, after personal
service of a five (5) day notice to the occupant of said property to remove
said garbage and debris, remove it as an agent of the city and the cost as set
by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule shall be paid to the city by
said owner.
      2.   In the event of the failure of said owner to pay said cost, a lien
shall be filed for said cost, court costs and attorney fees, against the
premises.
   W.   Statutory Nuisances: To cause or maintain any nuisance defined as such
by the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   X.   Loitering: To loiter, as set forth in section
5-4-1  of this code.
   Y.   Motorcycles, All-Terrain Vehicles, Motorized Equipment: To operate
motorcycles, motorbikes, all-terrain vehicles, or other motorized equipment
other than lawn maintenance equipment in yard areas in residential zoning
districts.
   Z.   Trees, Shrubs, Plants, Etc.: All trees, shrubs, vines, cuttings,
scions, grafts, plants and plant parts, plant products and places within this
city, infested with injurious insect pests or infected with plant diseases
which are liable to spread to other plants, plant products or places to the
injury thereof, or to the injury of man and animals, and all species and
varieties of trees, shrubs, vines and other plants not essential to the welfare
of the people of the state which may serve as favorable host plants, and
promote the prevalence and abundance of insect pests and plant diseases, or any
stage thereof, injurious to other plants essential to the welfare of the people
of this state, are hereby declared to be a nuisance. (1988 Code § 18.402; amd.
Ord. 92.02, 5-4-92; 1994 Code; Ord. 99.13, 5-17-1999; Ord. 2000.76, 4-2-2001;
Ord. 2006.35, 9-5-2006; Ord. 2013.15, 9-3-2013; Ord. 2013.16, 9-3-2013; Ord.
2019.22, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
4-3-2: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Notice To Abate: It is hereby made the duty of the ordinance officer or
any officer of the police department to serve a notice, in writing, upon the
owner, agent, occupant or person in possession, charge or control of any lot,
building or premises in or upon which any nuisance may be found, requiring them
or either of them to abate the same within five (5) days in such manner as the
ordinance officer shall prescribe. Any property owner found to be in violation
of this chapter shall receive a notice as set forth in this section. It shall
not be necessary, in any case, to specify in such notice the manner in which
the nuisance shall be abated. Abatement notices involving weeds and grasses
will be assessed a penalty as prescribed in section
4-3-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2013.16, 9-3-2013)
   B.   Summary Abatement By City; Collection And Lien:
      1.   When ordering a nuisance abated, the city manager or his designee
shall serve notice in writing to the owner, agent, occupant or person in
possession, charge or control of any lot, building or premises in or upon which
any nuisance may be found requiring them to abate the same within the time
specified in such manner as the city manager or his designee shall prescribe.
It shall not be necessary in any case to specify in what manner the nuisance
shall be abated. If the person so notified shall refuse or neglect to comply
with such order within the time and manner specified, the city manager shall
cause the summary abatement of such nuisance at the expense of the person
responsible for the same. The city shall have such liens on the offender's
property as may be provided by the applicable Illinois statutes.
      2.   Following the city sponsored cutting of weeds, or the abatement of
nuisances as defined by this chapter, the city manager or his designee shall:
         a.   Within thirty (30) days of the date that any city sponsored
abatement occurred, send a bill for any related fines, plus the cost of abating
the nuisance to the property owner, his agent or legal representative, or
occupant in legal possession or control of the premises, or in the case of
inoperable vehicles, the person named on the certificate of title.
         b.   If the bill sent pursuant to subsection B2a of this section is
not paid within sixty (60) days of the date of said bill, the city manager or
his designee may bring suit to collect the amount due and may prepare and
record a notice of lien in the amount of the cost and expense incurred in
abating the nuisance in conformance with the applicable Illinois statutes.
   C.   Service For Abatement Of Nuisances And Liens: For abatement of the
nuisances of "storage of junk", "weeds and plants" and "garbage" only, service
shall be deemed effective when actual service is had or when service by mail to
the person to whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property
for the last preceding year has been attempted and notice is posted on the
premises. A notice of lien against the real estate affected for the cost of
city sponsored cutting of weeds or plants shall be personally served on, or
sent by certified mail to, the person to whom was sent the tax bill for the
general taxes on the property for the last preceding year, or such other notice
as may be required by applicable Illinois statute. (Ord. 2007.43, 1-7-2008)
4-3-3: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord.
99.22, 6-21-1999; amd. Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 4
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Report of Release
4-4-3: Cleanup of Hazardous Spills
4-4-4: Liability for Costs
4-4-5: Penalties
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   ABATEMENT: Reducing the intensity of or putting an end to an existing
incident involving the release of a hazardous material.
   CLEANUP: The process of neutralizing a released material and recovering it
for disposal, removing the effects of or ordering a private recovery company to
provide this service.
   COSTS: Expenses incurred by the City above and beyond the initial fire
suppression response, usually provided by the Fire Department.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance in such quantity or form which, as
determined by the Fire Chief or his authorized representative, poses an
unreasonable and imminent risk to the health, life or safety of persons or
property or to the ecological balance of the environment. Hazardous materials
shall include, but not be limited to, substances such as radioactive materials,
petroleum products, gases, poisons, pesticides and corrosives and those listed
as follows:
   A.   Any substance or materials which may be found in the consolidated list
of covered substances. Such list may be amended, from time to time, and include
the following, copies of which are available for inspection in the City Clerk's
office:
      1.   Extremely Hazardous Substance List, issued by EPA, November 17,
1986.
      2.   OSHA Hazardous Communication Standard Base Lists.
      3.   Senate Committee Print 99-169; Senate Committee on Environment and
Public Works, 99th Congress, 2nd Session, August, 1986.
      4.   Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
(CERCLA) Notification List.
   B.   In addition to those listed substances, hazardous materials may include
those substances which may be released in such quantity or form which, as
determined by the Fire Chief or his authorized representative, poses an
unreasonable risk to the health, life or safety of persons or property or to
the ecological balance of the environment.
   C.   Hazardous materials shall include, but not be limited to, substances
such as radioactive materials, petroleum products, gases, poisons, pesticides
and corrosives.
   RELEASE: Any spill, leak, discharge or release of hazardous material into
the atmosphere, onto the land or into any body of water from whatever source.
(Ord. 88.12, 7-5-1988)
4-4-2: REPORT OF RELEASE:
Any release of hazardous materials shall be immediately reported by the
property owner where said release occurs to the Fire Department by telephone or
in person. The report shall include the nature of the releases, the physical
state of the chemical, the name of the product(s) involved, estimates of the
amount of product(s) released and location of the release site, if known. (Ord.
88.12, 7-5-1988)
4-4-3: CLEANUP OF HAZARDOUS SPILLS:
   A.   Right of Entry: The Fire Chief or his authorized representative shall
have the authority to enter any premises whereupon a release has been reported
or occurred.
   B.   Authority to Abate: The Fire Chief or his authorized representative
shall have the authority to clean up or abate the hazardous materials or their
effects released or spilled in the City. This authority shall include, but not
be limited to, utilizing various City personnel and equipment, securing
necessary materials or ordering cleanup by a private recovery firm. (Ord.
88.12, 7-5-1988)
4-4-4: LIABILITY FOR COSTS:
   A.   Any person who intentionally or unintentionally causes a hazardous
material to be released within the corporate limits of the City shall be liable
for payment of all costs incurred by the City as a result of an abatement or
cleanup activity. These costs shall include, but not be limited to, labor and
equipment costs incurred by the City department, materials obtained by the
City, contract labor and materials and extended use of specially trained Fire
Department hazardous material response team personnel.
   B.   The remedy provided in this Section shall be in addition to any other
remedies provided by law and the penalty provided in Section
4-4-5 of this Chapter.
   C.   Following the resolution of a hazardous material incident, the Fire
Chief shall assemble a report of costs incurred by all City departments and
forward said report to the Finance Department for billing purposes. (Ord.
88.12, 7-5-1988)
4-4-5: PENALTIES:
Whoever violates any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty as
provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 88.12, 7-5-
88; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 5
EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Fireworks
4-5-2: Nitroglycerin And TNT
4-5-3: Storage Rules
4-5-4: Penalties
4-5-1: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Fireworks Restricted: It shall be unlawful to sell, store, discharge or
set off any fireworks or to give any pyrotechnic display in the city, except in
connection with public exhibitions as is herein provided.
   B.   Public Exhibitions: No public exhibition of fireworks or pyrotechnics
shall be given unless a permit therefor is first secured from the city manager
or his designee. All such public displays shall be under the supervision of a
competent person and shall be superintended by the fire chief or his designee
assigned to this duty by him.
   C.   Sale Of Fireworks Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
sell, offer for sale or keep for the purpose of selling any fireworks in the
city at any time.
   D.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall be subject to penalty as
provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule . (1988 Code §
26.101; amd. Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord. 2014.16, 10-6-2014; Ord. 2023.04, 5-
1-2023)
4-5-2: NITROGLYCERIN AND TNT:
It shall be unlawful to keep or store any nitroglycerin or the explosive
commonly known as TNT in the city in any quantities, excepting for medicinal or
laboratory purposes, and for such purposes no more than one-fourth (1/4) ounce
shall be stored in any one building or premises. (1988 Code §26.102)
4-5-3: STORAGE RULES:
All explosives must be stored or kept in accordance with the rules of the state
fire marshal, subject to the provisions of this chapter. (1988 Code §26.103)
4-5-4: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code §
26.104; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 6
COMPREHENSIVE REGULATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: License Required
4-6-3: Application
4-6-4: License Fee
4-6-5: Unlawful Sale To Persons Under The Age Of Twenty-One
4-6-6: Sign Posted
4-6-7: Employment Of Persons Under The Age Of Eighteen
4-6-8: Purchase And Possession By Persons Under The Age Of Twenty-One
4-6-9: Restrictions On Sale
4-6-10: Vending Machines Restrictions And Exemptions
4-6-11: Violations
4-6-12: Enforcement
4-6-13: License And Revocation
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES OR E-CIGARETTES: An alternative nicotine product. An
electronic device that typically includes a mouthpiece, a heating element or
atomizer, a battery, and electronic circuits; provides a gas derived from a
liquid that includes nicotine, propylene glycol, or similar substance and
perhaps other substances; and is inhaled by a user in a manner that simulates
or resembles smoking. The term "e-cigarette" includes all manner of these
devices, regardless of the details of a device's appearance or marketed name,
that are manufactured to resemble a cigarette, cigar, pipe, or other smoking
device. The term "e-cigarette" includes the cartridges and component parts of
an e-cigarette, individually or in any combination.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping
tobacco.
   VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self-service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
tobacco products. (Ord. 2015.11, 8-3-2015)
4-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail, to give away, deliver
or to keep with the intention of selling at retail, giving away or delivering
tobacco products or e-cigarettes or their components within the city without
having first obtained a tobacco dealer's license therefor pursuant to this
chapter. Such license shall be in addition to any other license required by
this code. (Ord. 2015.11, 8-3-2015)
4-6-3: APPLICATION:
Application for a license hereunder shall be made in writing to the city clerk.
(Ord. 2015.11, 8-3-2015)
4-6-4: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee for a tobacco or e-cigarettes dealer's license shall be as set
by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2015.11, 8-3-2015;
amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
4-6-5: UNLAWFUL SALE TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY-ONE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, including any licensee, to sell, offer for
sale, give away or deliver tobacco products or e-cigarettes or their components
to any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
(Ord. 2015.11, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 2019.12, 7-1-2019)
4-6-6: SIGN POSTED:
Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided for herein shall be
posted by every licensee at or near every display of tobacco products or e-
cigarettes and on or upon every vending machine which offers tobacco products
or e-cigarettes or their components for sale. Each such sign shall be plainly
visible and shall state:
   THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES TO PERSONS UNDER
TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.
The text of such signs shall be in red letters on a white background, said
letters to be at least one inch (1") high.
(Ord. 2015.11, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 2019.12, 7-1-2019)
4-6-7: EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF EIGHTEEN:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to engage, employ or permit
any person under eighteen (18) years of age to sell tobacco products or e-
cigarettes or their components in any licensed premises. (Ord. 2015.11, 8-3-
2015)
4-6-8: PURCHASE AND POSSESSION BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY-ONE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years to purchase tobacco products or e-cigarettes or their components, or to
misrepresent their identity or age, or to use any false or altered
identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products or e-cigarettes
or their components.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years to possess any tobacco products or e-cigarettes or their components;
provided that the possession by a person under the age of twenty-one (21) years
under the direct supervision of the parent or guardian of such person in the
privacy of the parents' or guardian's home shall not be prohibited.
   C.   A violation of this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in
the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2015.11, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 2019.12, 7-1-2019; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
4-6-9: RESTRICTIONS ON SALE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away
or deliver tobacco products or e-cigarettes or their components within one
hundred feet (100') of any school, childcare facility or other building used
for education or recreational programs for persons under the age of twenty-one
(21) years.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person in the business of
selling or otherwise distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products or
e-cigarettes or their components, or any employee or agent of any such licensee
or person, in the course of such licensee's or person's business, to
distribute, give away or deliver tobacco products or e-cigarettes or their
components free of charge to any person on any right of way, park, playground
or other property owned by the city, any school district, any park district or
any public library. (Ord. 2015.11, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 2019.12, 7-1-2019)
4-6-10: VENDING MACHINES RESTRICTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale, give
away, deliver or to keep with the intention of selling, giving away or
delivering tobacco products or e-cigarettes or their components by use of a
vending machine, unless such vending machine is equipped with a manual,
electric or electronic locking device controlled by the licensee so as to
prevent its operation by persons under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   B.   Any premises where access by persons under the age of twenty-one (21)
years is prohibited by law, or premises where the public is generally not
permitted and where vending machines are strictly for the use of employees of
business located at such premises, shall be exempt from the requirements of
subsection A. of this section.
(Ord. 2015.11, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 2019.12, 7-1-2019)
4-6-11: VIOLATIONS:
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter by an officer, director, manager or other agent
or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
licensee; and such licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if such
act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally. (Ord.
2015.11, 8-3-2015)
4-6-12: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Fine: The mayor shall be charged with the administration of this
chapter. The mayor may suspend or revoke any license issued under the
provisions of this chapter, if he determines that the licensee has violated any
of the provisions of this chapter. In lieu of suspension or revocation of a
license, the mayor may instead levy a fine on the licensee. The fine imposed by
the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule for the violation. Each day on
which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   B.   Hearing And Notice:
      1.   No such license, however, shall be suspended or revoked and no
licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the mayor with a seven
(7) day written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to
appear and defend against the charges contained in such notice. The seven (7)
day notice provisions shall begin the day following delivery by certified mail
or by personal service.
      2.   The mayor shall within seven (7) days after such hearing, if he
determines after such hearing that the license should be revoked or suspended,
or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason for such determination
in a written order and either the amount of the fine, the period of suspension
or that the license has been revoked and serve a copy of such order within the
seven (7) days upon the licensee.
   C.   Costs For Violation:
      1.   Any licensee determined by the mayor to have violated any of the
provisions of this chapter shall pay to the city the costs of the hearing
before the mayor on such violation. The mayor shall determine the costs
incurred by the city for said hearing, including, but not limited to: court
reporter fees, the costs of transcripts or records, attorney fees, the cost of
preparing and mailing notices and orders and all other miscellaneous expenses
incurred by the city or such lesser sum as the mayor may allow. Applicable fees
are provided for in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      2.   The licensee shall pay said costs to the city within thirty (30)
days of notification of the costs by the mayor. Failure to pay said costs
within thirty (30) days of notification is a violation of this chapter and may
be cause for license suspension or revocation, or the levy of a fine. (Ord.
2015.11, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
4-6-13: LICENSE AND REVOCATION:
When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no license shall be
granted to said licensee for the period of six (6) months thereafter for the
conduct of the business of selling "tobacco products or e-cigarettes or their
components" as defined in section
4-6-1 of this chapter in the premises described in such revoked license. (Ord.
2015.11, 8-3-2015)
CHAPTER 7
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
4-7-1: Declaration Of Policy
4-7-2: Definitions
4-7-3: Prohibited Acts
4-7-4: Penalty
4-7-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   A.   In furthering the policy of the State of Illinois as expressed in its
Constitution and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all the inhabitants of the City may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the City to assure equal opportunity to all
residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or physical disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful,
standard living quarters.
   B.   It is the policy of the City that no owner, lessee, sub- lessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or
real property within the City, or any agent of these, shall refuse to sell,
rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such
person or persons or discriminate against any person or persons because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability in
the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any housing
accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities and/or
services in connection therewith.
   C.   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities. (Ord. 97.13, 5-
12-1997)
4-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms shall have the meaning as described in this Section and as used in this
Chapter:
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS: Housing which is in
sound, clean and weather tight condition in conformance with applicable local
State, and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE: The terms "discriminate" or "discrimination" mean any
difference expressed in any way toward a person or persons in the terms of the
sale, exchange, lease, rental or financing for housing accommodation and/or
real property in regard to such sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance
because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any person, institution or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
   OWNER: Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof who, for a fee or other valuable consideration, offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY: Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the City of Sycamore, Illinois.
(Ord. 97.13, 5-12-1997)
4-7-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee, real
estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the financial
institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange or rental or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real estate
broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial institution
dealing with housing or real property in the City:
   A.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of, or the
price, terms, conditions or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the City or in furnishing any facilities or services in connection therewith.
   B.   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any form
of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate, which expressed directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed or disability of any person.
   C.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing loans,
accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the
purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   D.   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
   E.   To distribute or cause to be distributed written material or statements
designed to induce any owner of any housing accommodation and/or real property
to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or prospective
change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed,
or disability of persons in the neighborhood.
   F.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or the
anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/or
real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or
listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located.
   G.   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
   H.   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant. (Ord. 97.13, 5-12-1997)
4-7-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall
be punished in accordance with the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This
Section shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the City to
specifically enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 97.13, 5-12-1997; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 8
HOME KITCHENS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Operations
4-8-1: OPERATIONS:
   A.   The city of Sycamore hereby adopts and incorporates the provisions of
the food handling regulation enforcement act 1 , as amended.
   B.   Home kitchen operations, as defined by the food handling regulation
act, as amended, are permitted within the city of Sycamore. The sale of
nonpotentially hazardous food by home kitchen operations is permitted in
accordance with the food handling regulation enforcement act.
   C.   The city of Sycamore hereby authorizes home kitchen operations as
described in section 3.6 of the food handling regulation enforcement act.
   D.   Home kitchen operations must be in compliance with all state and county
laws and regulations which are applicable to said operations.
   E.   The notice to be provided to purchasers of nonpotentially hazardous
baked goods produced by home kitchen operations in the city of Sycamore, as
required by state law, shall be consistent with all applicable state and county
laws and regulations. (Ord. 2015.06, 6-1-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 625/1 et seq.
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Created
5-1-2: Chief Of Police
5-1-3: Deputy Chief
5-1-4: Commanders
5-1-5: Membership
5-1-6: Powers And Duties
5-1-7: Rules And Regulations
5-1-8: Collective Bargaining Agreements
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a police department, an executive department of the
city. The police department shall consist of the chief of police and of such
number of lieutenants, sergeants and patrolmen as may be provided, from time to
time, by the city council. (1988 Code §5.301)
5-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the office of
chief of police. The chief shall be appointed by the city manager, with the
approval of the council, and he shall be ex officio city marshal and
superintendent of police. Such appointments shall not be limited to members of
the police department. (1988 Code §5.302; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Jail: The chief of police shall be the keeper of the city jail and
shall have custody of all persons incarcerated therein.
      2.   Records And Reports: He shall keep such records and make such
reports concerning the activities of his department as may be required by
statute or by the city council.
      3.   Police Department: The chief shall be responsible for the
performance by the police department of all its functions and all persons who
are members of the department shall serve subject to the orders of the chief of
police. (1988 Code §5.305)
      4.   Stolen Property: The chief of police shall be the custodian of all
lost and abandoned or stolen property in the city. (1988 Code §5.312)
      5.   Commander Selection: The chief of police shall be responsible for
the selection and promotion of all commander and successively higher ranked
officers within the police department, subject to the advice and consent of the
city manager. Commanders and successively higher ranked officers shall not be
subject to selection or promotion by the board of fire and police
commissioners. (Ord. 2015.05, 5-4-2015)
5-1-3: DEPUTY CHIEF:
   A.   Powers And Duties: The deputy chief shall have and perform the
following powers and duties:
      1.   Active direction and supervision over all commanders, sergeants and
patrol officers subject to the supervision of the chief of police.
      2.   Professional development of the agency through training, policy and
procedure development, as well as the expansion of capacity through programs
such as administrative adjudication, technological opportunities, and
recruiting programs.
      3.   Make recommendations for police related ordinances and revisions
thereof, public relations, public education and shall assist in promoting skill
in patrol officers, sergeants and commanders. (Ord. 2015.05, 5-4-2015)
5-1-4: COMMANDERS:
   A.   Powers And Duties: Commanders shall have and perform the following
powers and duties:
      1.   Active direction and supervision over all sergeants and patrol
officers subject to the supervision of the chief of police and deputy chief.
      2.   Assigning officers and employees consistent with personnel
assignments established by the chief of police and deputy chief, giving
particular attention to police zones where the largest number of crimes are
committed and where traffic accidents and congestion are most frequent.
      3.   Investigating and rectifying traffic hazards, maintaining officer
discipline, instructing officers, enforcing report for duty rules, maintaining
officer morale, recommending commendations, coordinating shifts, assuring
property officer coverage in case of sickness and disability, enforcing uniform
rules and assisting in preserving officer respect and observation of
departmental chain of command - all subject to the supervision of the chief of
police and deputy chief. (Ord. 2015.05, 5-4-2015)
5-1-5: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Qualifications:
      1.   Statute Qualifications: No person shall be appointed to the police
department who is not qualified by statute.
      2.   Residency: Every person appointed to the police department shall be
a resident of the city or shall become a resident of the city within six (6)
months after the date of his appointment.
      3.   Language; Felonies: Every such person appointed to the police
department must speak the English language understandingly and shall not have
been convicted of a felony.
      4.   Investigation And Fingerprints: No person shall be appointed to the
police department until his verified employment application and fingerprints
have been submitted to the FBI for use in a record check.
      5.   Other Requirements: In addition to the foregoing, the board of fire
and police commissioners of the city 1  shall make rules for other physical and
mental tests and requirements. (1988 Code §5.313; amd. Ord. 2015.05, 5-4-2015)
   B.   Appointments And Dismissals:
      1.   General Membership: Appointments to, promotions and dismissals
within the police department, except for the position of the chief, shall be
made by the board of fire and police commissioners, after examination, as is
provided by statute 2 . (1988 Code §5.304; amd. Ord. 2015.05, 5-4-2015)
      2.   Chief Of Police: The chief may be removed from office with or
without cause by the city manager and four-fifths (4/5) of the council;
however, a policeman not otherwise subject to dismissal by the council shall
not be dismissed as a policeman merely by his dismissal from the office of
chief of police, but shall resume his rank within the police department held
immediately prior to his appointment as chief with seniority added for his time
in office as chief. (1988 Code §5.304; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003; Ord.
2015.05, 5-4-2015)
   C.   Conduct Of Members: It shall be the duty of every member of the police
department to conduct himself in a proper and law abiding manner, at all times,
and to avoid the use of unnecessary force. Each member of the department shall
obey the orders and directions of his superior. (1988 Code §5.308; amd. Ord.
2015.05, 5-4-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 4 of this code.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-6.
5-1-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Enforcement Of Law: It shall be the duty of the members of the police
department to see to the enforcement of all of the ordinances of the city and
all statutes applicable herein and to preserve order and prevent infractions of
the law and arrest violators thereof. (1988 Code §5.306; amd. Ord. 2015.05, 5-
4-2015)
   B.   Serving Process: No member of the police department except the chief
shall serve any civil process, except on authorization of the chief of the
police department. (1988 Code §5.307; amd. Ord. 2015.05, 5-4-2015)
   C.   Appearance As Witness; Fees: Any member of the police department shall
appear as witness whenever this is necessary in a prosecution for a violation
of an ordinance or of any state or federal law. No such member shall retain any
witness fee for service as witness in any action or suit to which the city is a
party and fees paid for such services shall be turned over to the chief of
police, who shall deposit the same with the city clerk. (1988 Code §5.309; amd.
Ord. 2015.05, 5-4-2015)
5-1-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The chief of police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the
conduct and guidance of the members of the police department as he shall deem
advisable, and such rules shall be binding on such members. (1988 Code §5.310;
amd. Ord. 2015.05, 5-4-2015)
5-1-8: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS:
Subject to these provisions and subordinate thereto, the provisions of
collective bargaining agreements, from time to time, shall govern the
department. (1988 Code §5.314; amd. Ord. 2015.05, 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS AND ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Cruelty
5-2-2: Dangerous Animals
5-2-3: Noises
5-2-4: Tethering Animals
5-2-5: Diseased Animals
5-2-6: Large Animal Restrictions; Stables (Rep. by Ord. 2013.15, 9-3-2013)
5-2-7: Bees
5-2-8: Unattended Animals
5-2-9: Redemption From Pound
5-2-10: Penalties
5-2-1: CRUELTY:
No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the city in any way. Any person who
inhumanely beats, overloads, underfeeds or abandons any animal shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of this section. (1988 Code §17.101)
5-2-2: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous or vicious
animal of any kind to run at large in the city; exhibitions or parades of
animals which are ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only
upon securing a permit from the city council. (1988 Code §17.102)
   B.   Extermination: The members of the police department and any other
person in the city are authorized to kill any dangerous animal when it is
necessary for the protection of any person or property. (1988 Code §17.106)
5-2-3: NOISES:
It shall be unlawful to keep or harbor any animal which continually and
unreasonably alarms and disturbs the public by loud noises. Excessive,
continuous or untimely barking, molesting passersby, chasing vehicles,
habitually attacking other domestic animals, trespassing upon school grounds or
trespassing upon private property in such manner as to damage property, shall
be deemed a nuisance 1 . (1988 Code §17.103)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 3 of this code for nuisance provisions.
5-2-4: TETHERING ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to permit picketing or tying any animal in the streets or
public ways of the city. (1988 Code §17.104)
5-2-5: DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious disease or an infectious
disease shall be allowed to run at large or to be exposed in any public place
whereby the health of man or beast may be affected, nor shall such diseased
animal be shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof, except
under the supervision of the ordinance officer.
   B.   The ordinance officer shall secure such disposition of any diseased
animal and such treatment of affected premises as to prevent the communication
or spread of contagion or infection, except in cases where the state
veterinarian is empowered to act. (1988 Code §17.107)
5-2-6: LARGE ANIMAL RESTRICTIONS; STABLES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2013.15, 9-3-2013)
5-2-7: BEES:
It shall be unlawful to keep any bees or hive of bees in any place that is
within five hundred feet (500') of any dwelling, barn or other building except
that of the owner or keeper thereof. It shall be unlawful to keep any such bees
or hives of bees within two hundred feet (200') of the property line of the
owner thereof or within two hundred feet (200') of any street or alley in the
city. (1988 Code §17.109)
5-2-8: UNATTENDED ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in any
street without having such animal securely fastened. (1988 Code §16.410)
5-2-9: REDEMPTION FROM POUND:
The owner of any impounded animal may redeem it from the pound upon payment of
a reasonable fee for room and board. (1988 Code §17.105)
5-2-10: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code §
17.110; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 3
DOGS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Rabies Inoculation Requirements
5-3-2: Number Restrictions
5-3-3: Leash Law
5-3-4: Disturbing The Peace; Nuisance
5-3-5: Excrement
5-3-6: Pens And Enclosures
5-3-7: Kennels
5-3-8: Pound
5-3-9: Impoundment And Redemption Procedures
5-3-10: Enforcement Of Provisions
5-3-11: Penalties
5-3-1: RABIES INOCULATION REQUIREMENTS:
Every owner of a dog four months or more of age, who is a resident of the City,
is required to have the animal inoculated against rabies as denoted in the
Illinois Animal Control Act. (Ord. 2020.28, 4-5-2021)
5-3-2: NUMBER RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for more than three (3) dogs to be kept on a lot or
premises located in residentially zoned area after which dogs have become four
(4) months old. (Ord. 2020.28, 4-5-2021)
5-3-3: LEASH LAW:
   A.   Leash Required; Nuisance: It shall be unlawful for any person to
maintain a public nuisance by permitting any dog or other animal to leave the
premises of its owner or keeper when not under control by leash no longer than
seven feet (7').
   B.   Penalties: The penalty for owners of dogs which leave the owner’s
premises when not under control by leash no longer than seven feet (7') shall
be subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
   C.   Exemptions: Guide dogs for the blind or police owned dogs are exempt
from this section; providing, that no attack or injury to a person or other
animal occurs while the dog is performing duties as expected. (1988 Code §
17.205; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
5-3-4: DISTURBING THE PEACE; NUISANCE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in charge of any dog to suffer or
permit any such dog or animal to bark, howl, cry or other distracting, loud or
unusual noise so as to disturb the peace and quiet of any person, family or
neighborhood in the city, and such disturbing of the peace and quiet is hereby
declared a nuisance 1 . It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit
any such nuisance.
A violation of this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code § 17.207; amd. 1994 Code;
Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
 
Notes
1 See
  title 4, chapter 3 of this code for nuisance and abatement provisions.
5-3-5: EXCREMENT:
No owner or person who has possession or control of a dog shall fail to remove
excrement deposited by such dog or other animal upon the public ways or within
the public places of the city or upon the premises of any person other than the
owner.
A violation of this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code § 17.208; amd. Ord. 2005.78,
1-3-2006; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
5-3-6: PENS AND ENCLOSURES:
All pens or enclosures of any sort for dogs shall be properly cleaned every
three (3) days and maintained for the humane habitation of dogs. (1988 Code
§17.210)
5-3-7: KENNELS:
No person shall maintain or conduct a kennel in any residentially zoned area.
"Kennel" shall be defined as any lot or premises on which four (4) or more dogs
are kept after they have become four (4) months of age. (1988 Code §17.211)
5-3-8: POUND:
The mayor and city council shall provide necessary equipment, supplies and
facilities and shall operate pounds or contract for their operation or contract
for similar services, as necessary to effectuate this chapter. (1988 Code
§17.203)
5-3-9: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Impoundment: Any dog not registered pursuant to this chapter or any dog
found not under restraint or which is abandoned or vicious may be seized and
impounded.
   B.   Notice: Notice shall be given of not less than seven (7) days to the
owner, if known. Such notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the
owner, with affidavit of mailing, which shall be prima facie evidence of
receipt.
   C.   Redemption: In order to redeem the dog, the following conditions must
be met:
      1.   Present proof of current rabies inoculation and license.
      2.   Pay for rabies inoculation and license, license payment to be paid
to the city clerk.
      3.   Pay to the city clerk the appropriate fees as set out in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule for the impounding of the dog.
   D.   Disposal Of Unredeemed Dogs: When not redeemed within seven (7) days,
the dog shall be held or disposed of as provided by 510 Illinois Compiled
Statutes.
   E.   Dangerous Dogs: In the event that it is impossible to impound a
dangerous or vicious dog without danger of injury to any person or reasonable
apprehension of danger or injury to any person, the city is hereby empowered
and authorized to destroy such dog. (1988 Code §17.206; amd. 1994 Code; Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
5-3-10: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Right Of Entry: For the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this
chapter, any city officer may enter upon private premises to apprehend a stray
dog, dangerous or vicious dog or a dog thought to be infected with rabies. If,
after request thereof, the owner of such dog shall refuse to deliver the dog to
said officer, the owner shall be in violation of this chapter. (1988 Code
§17.212)
   B.   Interfering With Officer: No person shall molest, resist, interfere
with, hinder or prevent any officer in the discharge of the duties or powers
defined by this chapter. (1988 Code §17.213)
5-3-11: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2012.29,
10-15-2012; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 3A
CATS
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Rabies Inoculation Requirements
5-3A-2: Number Restrictions
5-3A-3: Running At Large Not Permitted
5-3A-4: Acts Not Permitted
5-3A-5: Owner’s Responsibility Regarding Acts Of Cats
5-3A-6: Nuisance Not Permitted
5-3A-7: Authority To Destroy Dangerous Animals
5-3A-8: Cruelty Prohibited
5-3A-9: Impounding Cats
5-3A-10: Impoundment, Redemption Fees
5-3A-11: Penalties
5-3A-1: RABIES INOCULATION REQUIREMENTS:
Every owner of a cat four months or more of age, who is a resident of the City,
is required to have the animal inoculated against rabies as denoted in the
Illinois Animal Control Act. (Ord. 2020.28, 4-5-2021)
5-3A-2: NUMBER RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for more than three (3) cats to be kept on any lot or
premises in a residentially zoned area after which cats have become four (4)
months old. (Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-2006; amd. Ord. 2020.28, 4-5-2021)
5-3A-3: RUNNING AT LARGE NOT PERMITTED:
It is unlawful for the owner or keeper of any cat to permit such cat to run at
large within the city limits. The owner or keeper of any cat shall not permit
such cat to go beyond the premises of the owner or keeper and at all times be
under the control of its owner or keeper. (Ord. 2000.74, 4-2-2001; amd. Ord.
2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord. 2020.28, 4-5-2021)
5-3A-4: ACTS NOT PERMITTED:
No cat shall be permitted to commit any of the following acts on any premises
or property, private or public: bite or charge any person, destroy private
property, scatter refuse, deposit fecal matter on any property not of its
owner, or commit any nuisance defined by this chapter or other city ordinance.
(Ord. 2000.74, 4-2-2001; amd. Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-2006)
5-3A-5: OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY REGARDING ACTS OF CATS:
Any person allowing any cat to trespass and defecate upon any public or private
property within the city of Sycamore not owned, leased or otherwise controlled
by said person, shall immediately clean any such fecal matter deposited upon
such property and shall properly dispose of same. (Ord. 2000.74, 4-2-2001; amd.
Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord. 2020.28, 4-5-2021)
5-3A-6: NUISANCE NOT PERMITTED:
It is declared a public nuisance and unlawful for any person to own or keep any
cat which whines or otherwise behaves in such a manner as to disturb the peace
and quiet and safety of persons in the neighborhood. It shall be a rebuttable
presumption that any such whining does in fact disturb the peace, comfort or
repose of others when such activities take place between the hours of nine
o’clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 2000.74, 4-2-2001; amd.
Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord. 2020.28, 4-5-2021)
5-3A-7: AUTHORITY TO DESTROY DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous or vicious cat to run at large
within the city. The members of the police department and the animal control
officer as designated by the city council are authorized to kill any dangerous
cat when it is necessary for the protection of any person or property. (Ord.
2000.74, 4-2-2001; amd. Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord. 2020.28, 4-5-2021)
5-3A-8: CRUELTY PROHIBITED:
No person shall cruelly treat, beat, torment, overload, overwork or otherwise
abuse any animal. No owner of an animal shall fail to provide such animal with
sufficient and wholesome food and water, proper shelter, and protection from
the weather, veterinary care when necessary to prevent suffering, and humane
care and treatment. (Ord. 2000.74, 4-2-2001; amd. Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord.
2020.28, 4-5-2021)
5-3A-9: IMPOUNDING CATS:
Any police officer or other officer designated by the city is authorized to
impound any cat found within the city which is in violation of the provisions
of this chapter. Any cat which appears to be suffering from rabies or affected
by hydrophobia, mange or other infectious disease, shall not be released, but
shall be destroyed forthwith. Any cat unclaimed after three (3) days may be
destroyed. (Ord. 2000.74, 4-2-2001; amd. Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord. 2020.28,
4-5-2021)
5-3A-10: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION FEES:
Any person seeking to redeem any impounded animal should pay a fee as set by
the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule and an additional fee set by the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule for care for the animal, the actual
charge made by the poundkeeper for care of the animal for each day such animal
has been held in the pound. (Ord. 2000.74, 4-2-2001; amd. Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-
2006; Ord. 2020.28, 4-5-2021; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
5-3A-11: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be subject to penalty
as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2012.29,
10-15-2012; amd. Ord. 2020.28, 4-5-2021; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 4
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Loitering
5-4-2: Handbills And Advertisements
5-4-3: Gambling
5-4-3-1: Video Gaming
5-4-4: Fighting; Assault And Battery
5-4-5: Disturbing Assemblages
5-4-6: False Alarms
5-4-7: Discharge Of Firearms
5-4-7-1: Shooting Or Discharge Of Arrows
5-4-8: Damaging Materials On Streets
5-4-8-1: Deposits On Streets
5-4-9: Disorderly Conduct
5-4-10: Wells
5-4-11: Indecent Publications
5-4-12: Alcoholic Liquor In Public
5-4-13: Alcoholic Liquor Regarding Minors
5-4-14: Controlled Substances And Cannabis
5-4-15: Noise
5-4-16: Violation And Penalties
5-4-17: No Smoking In Public Places
5-4-18: Bullying
5-4-19: Graffiti
5-4-20: Theft Related Offenses
5-4-21: Criminal Trespass
5-4-1: LOITERING:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to promote the public peace,
health and welfare in all public places in the city and to encourage the free
flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic on public sidewalks and streets.
   B.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "loitering" is defined as
remaining or wandering in or about a public place, sidewalk or street without
an apparent reason.
   C.   Offense Declared: It shall be a petty offense for anyone to loiter in
such a manner as to:
      1.   Create a breach of the peace, a disturbance or annoyance to the
comfort and repose of any person; or
      2.   Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles of public
sidewalks and streets; or
      3.   Obstruct, molest or interfere with a person lawfully in any public
place by conduct, including, but not limited to, making unsolicited remarks of
an offensive, disgusting or insulting nature that are calculated to annoy or
disturb any person in whose hearing the remarks are made; or
      4.   Disturb any person of ordinary sensibilities as to cause such person
to react in a way which threatens public peace and order; or
      5.   Under circumstances which justify suspicion that the person is
engaged or about to engage in crime; or
      6.   In a place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law abiding
citizens under circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of people and
property in the vicinity where:
         a.   Said person is provided an opportunity to dispel the alarm by
providing a satisfactory explanation for his presence to a peace officer; and
         b.   Said person refuses to supply a satisfactory explanation; and
         c.   Does not subsequently provide a satisfactory explanation at a
trial conducted on the merits of this violation.
   D.   Request Of Removal: No person shall be charged with the offense of
loitering until he has been asked to move along by a peace officer and said
person has refused to comply.
   E.   National Labor Relations Act: No subsection of this section shall be
construed to impinge upon the right to peaceably picket as defined in 29 United
States Code 157 et seq.
   F.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this
section shall be subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 91.13, 6-17-1991; amd. 1994 Code; Ord.
2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
5-4-2: HANDBILLS AND ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   Placement Restricted; Throwing From Aircraft Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether a licensed billposter
or not, to distribute handbills, circulars, dodgers, pamphlets, cards, pictures
or any advertising matter of any kind whatsoever, by placing the same in or
upon any motor vehicle standing or parked in the public streets of the City
without the consent of the owner of the motor vehicle.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to post any bills or
advertisements on any public property without the authority of the City
Council, and it shall be unlawful to post any bill or advertisement on any
property without the written consent of the owner thereof.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to distribute advertising or publicity matter
from any aircraft flying over the City. (1988 Code §§14.301, 26.609, 26.610;
amd. 1994 Code)
   B.   Advertising Unlawful Business Or Article: It shall be unlawful to
advertise any unlawful business or articles in the City, and it shall be
unlawful to injure or deface any lawful advertisement or notice. (1988 Code
§26.606)
5-4-3: GAMBLING:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful to gamble or attend any gambling
resort or to make any bet, lottery or gambling hazard or to buy or sell any
chances or tickets in any gambling game, arrangement or device unless expressly
allowed by State Statute. Video gaming is permitted, however, is restricted to
establishments that hold a Class B, C, E, (subsection
3-2-6 .A.6.a. of this Code), VG, or M liquor license.
   B.   Devices: It shall be unlawful to possess any gambling device or
paraphernalia with the intent to use the same for an unlawful purpose, and any
such device or paraphernalia kept with such intent may be confiscated by any
member of the Police Department.
   C.   Gambling Houses: It shall be unlawful to maintain or patronize any
establishment maintained for a gambling house or resort.
   D.   Advertising: It shall be unlawful to advertise any gambling house or
resort in any street, alley or other public place in the City. (1988 Code §§
26.502 through 26.504; amd. Ord. 2017.06, 9-18-2017; Ord. 2023.18, 11-6-2023)
5-4-3-1: VIDEO GAMING:
   A.   Video Gaming License And Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful to
operate video gaming terminals in the City without having a City license.
   B.   License Requirements: Applications for such licenses shall be made to
the City Clerk, in writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a
duly authorized agent thereof, if a club, corporation or limited liability
company, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following
information and statements:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
      3.   The number of video gaming terminals being operated.
      4.   A diagram illustrating the physical location of where the machines
will be located.
      5.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the State or of the United States or any ordinance of the City in the conduct
of his place of business.
      6.   Proof of a valid license from the Illinois Gaming Board to operate
video gaming terminals.
   C.   Annual License Fee: The annual license fee for establishments operating
video gaming terminals shall be set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee Schedule.
   D.   Prohibition On Minors: It shall be unlawful for minors to operate or
play video gaming terminals. The license holder is responsible to ensure only
individuals twenty one (21) years of age and older operate the machines.
Further, minors shall not be physically permitted to be within ten feet (10')
of video gaming terminals.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a penalty as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2012.30, 11-5-2012; amd. Ord. 2019.52, 3-2-2020; Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
5-4-4: FIGHTING; ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start a fight, to fight or to
commit any assault or battery in any public place in the city. (1988 Code
§26.601)
5-4-5: DISTURBING ASSEMBLAGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to cease and desist any
conduct or activity likely to produce a breach of peace, where there is an
imminent threat of violence and where the police have made all reasonable
efforts to protect any otherwise peaceful conduct and activity and have
requested that the threatening conduct and activity be stopped and explained
the request if there be time. (1988 Code §26.602)
5-4-6: FALSE ALARMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start or spread any false
alarm of fire in the city. (1988 Code §26.603)
5-4-7: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm or air gun in the city; provided,
that this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law to
discharge a firearm in the performance of his duty nor to any citizen to
discharge a firearm when lawfully defending his person or property. (1988 Code
§26.604)
5-4-7-1: SHOOTING OR DISCHARGE OF ARROWS:
It shall be unlawful to shoot or discharge an arrow from a bow, sling bow,
arrow gun, crossbow, recurve bow, or similar device with the intent to shoot an
arrow in the city except in any of the following circumstances:
   A.   While engaged in target practice within an enclosed structure.
   B.   While engaged in an approved Sycamore Park District program while on
Sycamore Park District property.
   C.   While participating in an instructional course or program approved by a
school while on school property.
For this section, the term "bow" shall not include bows which have a peak draw
of less than ten pounds or that are designed or intended to be used principally
as toys. The term "arrow" means a shaft-like projectile intended to be shot
from a bow with an arrowhead designed for hunting or designed to penetrate a
target. This section shall not be construed to restrict any officer of the law
in the performance of their duty nor any citizen when lawfully defending their
person or property. (Ord. 2024.01, 1-16-2024)
5-4-8: DAMAGING MATERIALS ON STREETS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to cast, throw, or propel any missile on any
street, alley or other public place, and it shall be unlawful to throw or
deposit any glass, nails, tacks or other similar articles on any street,
sidewalk, alley or other public place in the city.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate on any city
street, alley, sidewalk or in any other place, public or private, not
specifically designed for that use. (Ord. 2015.10, 8-3-2015)
5-4-8-1: DEPOSITS ON STREETS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to deposit on any street, sidewalk, or
alley, any dirt, mud, clay, cement, concrete, gravel, stones, plant matter,
snow, refuse, or garbage.
   B.    In the event the person depositing such material fails to immediately
remove the material, the director of public works may cause the material to be
removed. The costs of such removal and all expenses incurred in connection
therewith shall be assessed against and paid by the person depositing the
material. Applicable fees are provided for in the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee Schedule.
   C.   Assessment of costs against any person violating this section shall not
be construed as a waiver of the right of the city to impose a fine pursuant to
the terms of
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 2015.10, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-
1-2023)
5-4-9: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the offense of disorderly
conduct. A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly does any act in
such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another and to provoke a breach
of the peace. (1988 Code §26.614)
5-4-10: WELLS:
It shall be unlawful to permit any well or any other similar excavation to
remain uncovered, excepting on premises securely secured by a fence of at least
six feet (6') in height with all doors on entrances to such premises locked.
(1988 Code §26.615)
5-4-11: INDECENT PUBLICATIONS:
   A.   Sale Or Display: It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale or to
circulate, pass from one person to another or expose in any public place or
anywhere in view of a store or place frequented by the public, any immoral,
indecent or obscene publications, printed or written matter or picture or other
representation.
   B.   Minors: It shall be unlawful to keep any such publication, printed or
written matter, picture or other representation in any place frequented by, or
where it may come into the possession of minors or to disclose or expose any
such material to a minor.
   C.   Definition: "Immoral, indecent or obscene matter" is intended to appeal
predominantly to prurient interests and is advertised with the intent of
eliciting such interest. (1988 Code §26.618)
5-4-12: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IN PUBLIC:
   A.   No person may carry, possess, or have any alcoholic liquor, except in
the original container and with the seal unbroken, in any municipal parking lot
or in any public right of way, unless allowed pursuant to a permit issued by
the City of Sycamore. For the purposes of this section, “alcoholic liquor”
shall be defined as any spirit, wine, beer, ale, or other liquid containing
more than one-half of one percent (1/2%) of alcohol by volume, which is fit for
beverage purposes.
   B.   No driver or passenger may transport, carry, possess, or have any
alcoholic liquor within the passenger area of any motor vehicle upon any public
way within the city except in the original container and with the seal
unbroken.
   C.   This section shall not apply to the passengers in a limousine when it
is being used for purposes for which a limousine is ordinarily used, the
passengers on a chartered bus when it is being used for purposes for which
chartered buses are ordinarily used, or on a motor home or mini motor home as
defined in Section 1-145.01 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. However, the driver
of any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming or having any alcoholic liquor
in or about the driver’s area. Any evidence of alcoholic consumption by the
driver shall be prima facie evidence of such driver’s failure to obey this
section. (Ord. 2024.32, 11-18-2024)
5-4-13: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR REGARDING MINORS:
No person under the age of twenty one (21) years old shall purchase, accept,
possess or consume "alcoholic liquor" as defined in section
5-4-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-2006)
5-4-14: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND CANNABIS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section:
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSARIES: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed cannabis business
establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-
infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related supplies to
purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers,
per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended
from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      CANNABIS: Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such
plant, its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake,
or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
      CANNABIS REGULATION AND TAX ACT (CRTA): On June 25, 2019, Illinois
Governor J.B. Pritzker signed the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act into law. The
CRTA goes into effect on January 1, 2020, and legalizes and regulates the
production, consumption, and sale of recreational cannabis in Illinois. The
CRTA allows Illinois residents over the age of twenty-one (21) to possess and
privately use recreational cannabis in limited quantities; however, use of
cannabis in public places is prohibited.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: A drug, substance, or immediate precursor in the
schedules of Article II of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 570/201 et seq., as amended.
      CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or business that is
licensed by the Department of Agriculture to cultivate, dry, cure, and package
cannabis and perform other necessary activities to make cannabis available for
sale at a dispensing organization or use at a processing organization.
      ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION: A unit of local government, including a home
rule unit, or any non-home rule county within the unincorporated territory of
the county may regulate the on-premises consumption of cannabis at or in a
cannabis business establishment within its jurisdiction in a manner consistent
with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act. The CRTA applies the restrictions of
the Smoke Free Illinois Act on smoking cannabis and provides that property
owners may prohibit the use of cannabis by any guest, lessee, customer or
visitor.
   B.   Dispensaries: The State of Illinois has enacted the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, which pertains to the possession, use, cultivation,
transportation, and dispensing of adult-use cannabis. The City of Sycamore has
the authority to adopt ordinances and to promulgate rules and regulations that
protect the public health, safety, and welfare of its citizens. Beginning
January 1, 2020, the City of Sycamore will permit adult use recreational
cannabis dispensaries consistent with zoning ordinances regulating adult use
recreational cannabis business establishments, including rules adopted
governing the time, place, manner, and number of cannabis business
establishments, and minimum distance limitations between cannabis business
establishments and locations the city deems sensitive through a special use
process. The appropriate zoning ordinances, rules, and definitions shall be
promulgated in the city's Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) effective January
1, 2020, as amended from time-to-time. Craft-grower operations are not allowed
in the City of Sycamore.
   The City of Sycamore prohibits the on-premises consumption of cannabis at or
in a cannabis business establishment within its jurisdiction in a manner
consistent with the Act.
   C.   Violations: It is unlawful for any person to manufacture, deliver, or
possess any and all equipment, products, and materials of any kind which are
peculiar to and marketed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing in the human body any controlled substance, including any and all
articles listed in the Illinois Drug Paraphernalia Control Act, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 600, as amended.
   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21), or not in
compliance with the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, to knowingly
possess any quantity of any substance containing cannabis, except that the
effect of this chapter shall be limited for purposes of municipal prosecution
to persons knowingly possessing less than thirty grams (30 g) of cannabis
flower; five hundred milligrams (500 mg) of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)
contained in cannabis-infused product; or five grams (5g) of cannabis
concentrates. Unless authorized under the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Pilot Program Act or the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, it
is unlawful for any person to possess cannabis plants; except that the effect
of this chapter shall be limited for purposes of municipal prosecution to
persons knowingly possessing five (5) or fewer cannabis plants.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be fined as set by the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 97.77, 5-11-1998; amd. Ord.
2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord. 2012.29, 10-15-2012; Ord. 2019.30, 11-4-2019, eff. 1-1-
2020; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
5-4-15: NOISE:
   A.   No person shall make, cause to be made, or permit to be made, any
unreasonable noise or sound which disturbs the peace.
   B.   No person shall operate, permit to be operated or cause to be operated
on the exterior of any premises, any power tools, such as but not limited to
gas or electric powered lawnmowers, chain saws, power saws, sweepers, or yard
equipment other than between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. on weekdays and between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. on Saturdays and Sundays, unless otherwise approved by the
City Manager or his/her designee.
   C.   No person shall operate, permit to be operated, or cause to be
operated, on the exterior of any premises any heavy construction equipment such
as but not limited to tractors, excavators, augurs, backhoes, cement mixers or
construction vehicles other than between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on weekdays and between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on Saturdays and Sundays, unless otherwise
approved by the City Manager or his/her designee.
   D.   Except as permitted in section
5-4-15F. below, no person shall operate, permit to be operated, or cause to be
operated any radio, stereo, or sound amplification device in a manner which
exceeds fifty-five (55) dBA when measured from the adjacent property line of
the complainant.
   E.   No person shall operate or permit the operation of any sound
amplification system in or on any motor vehicle which can be heard outside the
vehicle from seventy-five feet (75') or more.
   F.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any of the following:
      1.   Emergency and maintenance operations which are necessary to protect
the health and welfare of the citizens, such as road, municipal parking lot,
utility and railroad construction; repair and maintenance work being performed
by state, county, city, utility provider, or railroad employees.
      2.   Any sound amplification system being operated to warn of a hazardous
situation or request assistance.
         a.   Any sound amplification system on authorized emergency vehicles.
         b.   City owned or city authorized snow removal and street cleaning
equipment.
         c.   Special Events and Community Events: Events such as parades,
festivals, drum corps shows, sporting events, Fourth of July celebrations and
similar events that are permitted or sponsored in whole or in part by local
governments, schools or charitable or service organizations shall be exempted
from the provisions of this section, provided they adhere to the hours of
operation noted below and provided the sound emitted does not exceed one
hundred (100) dBA measured from a distance of fifty feet (50') from the source
of the sound:
 
Monday:    7:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M.
Tuesday:   7:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M.
Wednesday: 7:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M.
Thursday:  7:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M.
Friday:    7:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M.
Saturday:  8:00 A.M. - 11:00 P.M.
Sunday:    8:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M. 1
 
(Ord. 99.13, 5-17-1999; amd. Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord. 2019.23, 9-16-2019,
eff. 1-1-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. Also noted in Section 9-1-4: Construction Hours
5-4-16: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Except where otherwise indicated, any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be subject to penalty as provided in Applicable fees are provided
for in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code § 26.619;
amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-2006; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
5-4-17: NO SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases used in this section shall
have the following meanings:
   BAR: An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises and that derives no more than ten
percent (10%) of its gross revenue from the sale of food consumed on the
premises. "Bar" includes, but is not limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail
lounges, and cabarets.
   EMPLOYEE: A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, or a person who volunteers his or
her services for a nonprofit entity.
   EMPLOYER: A person, business, partnership, association, or corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust, or nonprofit entity that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA: All space between a floor and a ceiling that is enclosed or
partially enclosed with: 1) solid walls or windows, exclusive of doorways, or
2) solid walls with partitions and no windows, exclusive of doorways, that
extend from the floor to the ceiling, including, without limitation, lobbies
and corridors.
   ENCLOSED OR PARTIALLY ENCLOSED AREA: Any sports pavilion, stadium,
gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool, roller rink, ice rink,
bowling alley, or other similar place where members of the general public
assemble to engage in physical exercise or participation in athletic
competitions or recreational activities or to witness sports, cultural,
recreational, or other events.
   HEALTHCARE FACILITY: An office or institution providing care or treatment of
diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical,
physiological, or psychological conditions, including, but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals, weight control clinics, nursing homes,
homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories, and offices of surgeons,
chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists, and all specialists
within these professions. "Healthcare facility" includes all waiting rooms,
hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and wards within healthcare
facilities.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT: Any area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees are required to enter, leave, or pass through during
the course of employment, including, but not limited to, entrances and exits to
places of employment, including a minimum distance of fifteen feet (15') from
entrances, exits, windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited; offices and work areas; restrooms;
conference and classrooms; break rooms and cafeterias; and other common areas.
A private residence or home based business, unless used to provide licensed
childcare, foster care, adult care, or other similar social service care on the
premises, is not a "place of employment".
   PRIVATE CLUB: A nonprofit association that: 1) has been in active and
continuous existence for at least three (3) years prior to January 1, 2008,
whether incorporated or not, 2) is the owner, lessee, or occupant of a building
or portion thereof used exclusively for club purposes at all times, 3) is
operated solely for a recreational, fraternal, social, patriotic, political,
benevolent, or athletic purposes, but not for pecuniary gain, and 4) only sells
alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation. For purposes of this
definition, "private club" means an organization that is managed by a board of
directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at an
annual meeting, has established bylaws, a constitution, or both to govern its
activities, and has been granted an exemption from the payment of federal
income tax as a club under 26 USC 501.
   PRIVATE RESIDENCE: The part of a structure used as a dwelling, including,
without limitation: a private home, townhouse, condominium, apartment, mobile
home, vacation home, cabin, or cottage. For the purposes of this definition, a
hotel, motel, inn, resort, lodge, bed and breakfast or other similar public
accommodation, hospital, nursing home, or assisted living facility shall not be
considered a private residence.
   PUBLIC PLACE: That portion of any enclosed or partially enclosed building or
vehicle used by and open to the public, regardless of whether the building or
vehicle is owned in whole or in part by private persons or entities, or any
other public entity and regardless of whether a fee is charged for admission,
including a minimum distance of fifteen feet (15') from entrances, exits,
windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where
smoking is prohibited. A "public place" does not include a private residence
unless the private residence is used to provide licensed childcare, foster
care, or other similar social service care on the premises. A "public place"
includes, but is not limited to, hospitals, restaurants, retail stores,
offices, commercial establishments, elevators, indoor theaters, libraries,
museums, concert halls, public conveyances, educational facilities, nursing
homes, auditoriums, enclosed or partially enclosed sports arenas, meeting
rooms, schools, exhibition halls, convention facilities, polling places,
private clubs, gaming facilities, all government owned vehicles and facilities,
healthcare facilities or clinics, enclosed shopping centers, retail service
establishments, financial institutions, educational facilities, ticket areas,
public hearing facilities, public restrooms, waiting areas, lobbies, bars,
taverns, outdoor eating areas, bowling alleys, skating rinks, reception areas,
and no less than seventy five percent (75%) of the sleeping quarters within a
hotel, motel, resort, inn, lodge, bed and breakfast, or other similar public
accommodation that are rented to guests. A "public place" includes the
residential common or public areas including, without limitation, to, lobbies,
hallways, reception areas, public restrooms, storage, laundry and elevators of
apartment buildings, condominiums, dormitory buildings, nursing home care
facilities, and other multiple-family residential structures, but excludes the
private residences.
   RESTAURANTS: An eating establishment, including, but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias,
that gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees, and a
kitchen or catering facility in which food is prepared on the premises for
serving elsewhere. "Restaurant" includes a bar area within the restaurant, and
outdoor eating areas.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE: A retail establishment that derives more than eighty
percent (80%) of its gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or
herbs and cigars, cigarettes, pipes, and other smoking devices for burning
tobacco and related smoking accessories and in which the sale of other products
is merely incidental. "Retail tobacco store" does not include a tobacco
department or section of a larger commercial establishment or any establishment
with any type of liquor, food, or restaurant license.
   SECONDHAND SMOKE OR INVOLUNTARY SMOKING: A mixture of the smoke given off by
the burning ends of a cigarette, pipe, cigar, bidis, and kreteks (sidestream
smoke) and the smoke emitted at the mouthpiece and exhaled from the lungs of
smokers (mainstream smoke).
   SMOKING: The carrying, smoking, burning, inhaling, or exhaling of any kind
of lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, hookah, weed, herbs, or other lighted
tobacco equipment or inhaling or exhaling from, turning on, powering, ingesting
or utilizing in any form any device intended for the atomization, charring,
burning, ignition of or ingestion of tobacco products or nicotine in any
gaseous, smoke, aerosol, vaporous or other similar form, including, but not
limited to, the use of any e-cigarette, personal vaporizer used with nicotine
or tobacco derivatives, electronic nicotine delivery system, e-puffer,
cartomizer or other similar device. (Ord. 2007.42, 1-7-2008; amd. Ord. 2015.11,
8-3-2015)
   B.   Prohibition Against Smoking In Public Places:
      1.   No person shall smoke in a public place or in any place of
employment, or within fifteen feet (15') of any entrance to a public place or
place of employment. No person may smoke in any vehicle owned, leased, or
operated by the state, a political subdivision of the state or the city of
Sycamore. Smoking is prohibited in indoor public places and workplaces unless
specifically exempted by this chapter.
      2.   No person who owns, operates, or otherwise controls a public place
or place of employment shall knowingly or negligently permit any person to
violate the provisions of the preceding subsection.
   C.   Posting Of Signs; Removal Of Ashtrays:
      1.   "No smoking" signs or the international "no smoking" symbol,
consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it, shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in each public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this section, by the owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of
that place.
      2.   Each public place and place of employment where smoking is
prohibited shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited.
      3.   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by the owner, operator, manager, or other person having control of
the area.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, deface or obscure any
sign posted pursuant to the provisions of this section.
   D.   Prohibition Within Student Dormitories: Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, smoking is prohibited in any portion of the living
quarters, including, but not limited to, sleeping rooms, dining areas,
restrooms, laundry areas, lobbies, and hallways of a building used in whole or
in part as a student dormitory that is owned and operated or otherwise utilized
by a public or private institution of higher education.
   E.   Designation Of Other Nonsmoking Areas: Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, any employer, owner, occupant, lessee, operator,
manager, or other person in control of any public place or place of employment
may designate a nonenclosed area of a public place or place of employment,
including outdoor areas, as an area where smoking is also prohibited provided
that such employer, owner, lessee or occupant shall conspicuously post signs
prohibiting smoking in the manner described in this section.
   F.   Exemptions: Notwithstanding any other provision of this section,
smoking is allowed in the following areas:
      1.   Private residences or dwelling places, except when used as a
childcare, adult daycare, or healthcare facility or any other home based
business open to the public.
      2.   Retail tobacco stores as defined in this section, in operation prior
to January 1, 2008. The retail tobacco store shall annually file a copy of the
document filed with the Illinois department of public health by January 31,
including an affidavit stating the percentage of its gross income during the
prior calendar year that was derived from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or
herbs and cigars, cigarettes, pipes, or other smoking devices for smoking
tobacco and related smoking accessories. Any retail tobacco store that begins
operation after the effective date of this amendatory act may only qualify for
an exemption if located in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the
business and smoke from the business does not migrate into an enclosed area
where smoking is prohibited.
      3.   Private and semiprivate rooms in nursing homes and long term care
facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers
and have requested in writing to be placed or to remain in a room where smoking
is permitted and the smoke shall not infiltrate other areas of the nursing
home.
      4.   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are
designated as smoking rooms, provided that all smoking rooms on the same floor
must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into
nonsmoking rooms or other areas where smoking is prohibited. Not more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may
be designated as rooms where smoking is allowed. The status of rooms as smoking
or nonsmoking may not be changed, except to permanently add additional
nonsmoking rooms.
   G.   Prohibition Within Distance Of Public Places: Smoking is prohibited
within a minimum distance of fifteen feet (15') from entrances, exits, windows
that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed or partially enclosed
area where smoking is prohibited in this section so as to ensure that tobacco
smoke does not enter the area through entrances, exits, open windows, or other
means.
   H.   Violations And Penalties: A person, corporation, partnership,
association or other entity who violates this chapter shall be fined as
follows. Each day that a violation occurs is a separate violation.
      1.   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited shall be
fined and applicable fees are provided for in the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee Schedule.
      2.   A person who owns, operates, or otherwise controls a public place or
place of employment that violates this chapter shall be fined and applicable
fees are provided for in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord.
2007.42, 1-7-2008; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
5-4-18: BULLYING:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to prevent bullying and
harassment, which disrupts a safe environment in the city; interferes with
one's ability to succeed or excel in a safe environment in the city and
interfere with one's ability to participate in or benefit from programs,
activities, worksites, and opportunities offered to the community.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different
meaning is intended:
   BULLYING: A form of harassment and is defined as an intentional course of
conduct which is reasonably likely to intimidate, emotionally abuse, slander,
threaten, or intimidate another person and which serves no legitimate purpose.
   COURSE OF CONDUCT: A pattern of conduct composed of a series of acts over a
period of time, however short, evidencing a continuity of purpose.
   HARASSMENT: Any conduct, whether verbal, physical, written, or by means of
any mode of communication, which:
      1.   Is prohibited by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/26.5-1, 5/26.5-2,
or 5/26.5-3; or
      2.   Is any intentional course of conduct which is likely to create an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive environment, and which serves no legitimate
purpose.
   C.   Offense Declared: It shall be a violation for anyone to bully in such a
manner as to:
      1.   Intentionally intimidate, emotionally abuse, slander, threaten, or
intimidate another person.
      2.   Harass, intimidate, or bully as a gesture, an electronic
communication, or a written, verbal, physical, or sexual act that is reasonably
perceived to have the effect of: a) harming a student physically or emotionally
or damaging a student's property, or placing a student in reasonable fear of
personal harm of property damage; or b) insulting or demeaning a student or
group of students causing substantial disruption in, or substantial
interference with, the orderly operation of the school.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a penalty as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
   E.   Community Service: With the concurrence of the police officer issuing
the citation, an appropriate number of community service hours in lieu of the
assigned fine may be ordered. (Ord. 2014.48, 4-20-2015; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
5-4-19: GRAFFITI:
Graffiti defacement shall be unlawful according to the following:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER: Any aerosol container that is adapted or made for
the purpose of applying spray paint or other substances capable of defacing
property.
   BROAD TIPPED MARKER: Any felt tip indelible marker or similar implement with
a flat or angled writing surface that, at its broadest, is greater than one-
fourth (1/4) of an inch, containing ink or other pigmented liquid that is not
water soluble.
   ETCHING EQUIPMENT: Any tool, device, or substance that can be used to make
permanent marks on any natural or manmade surface.
   GRAFFITI: Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property by any graffiti implement, to the extent that the graffiti was not
authorized in advance by the owner or occupant of the property, or, despite
advance authorization, is otherwise deemed a public nuisance by the city
council.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: An aerosol paint container, a broad tipped marker, gum
label, paint stick or graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush or any other
device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any natural or manmade
surface.
   PAINT STICK OR GRAFFITI STICK: Any device containing a solid form of paint,
chalk, wax, epoxy or other similar substance capable of being applied to a
surface by pressure and leaving a mark of at least one-eighth (1/8) of an inch
in width.
   PERSON: An individual, partnership, cooperative association, private
corporation, personal representative, receiver, trustee, assignee, or any other
legal entity.
   B.   Defacement: It shall be unlawful for any person to apply graffiti to
any natural or manmade surface on any city owned property or, without the
permission of the owner or occupant, on any noncity owned property.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Fines: Any person violating this section shall be punished by a fine
as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
         a.   In the case of a minor, the parents or legal guardian shall be
jointly and severally liable with the minor for payment of all fines.
         b.   Failure of the parents or legal guardian to make payment will
result in the filing of a lien on the parents' or legal guardian's property
that includes the fine and administrative costs.
      2.   Restitution: In addition to any punishment specified in this
section, the court shall order any violator to make restitution to the victim
for damages or loss caused directly or indirectly by the violator's offense in
the amount or manner determined by the court. In the case of a minor, the
parents or legal guardian shall be ordered jointly and severally liable with
the minor to make the restitution.
      3.   Community Service: In lieu of, or as part of, the penalties
specified in this section, a minor or adult may be required to perform
community service as described by the court based on the following minimum
requirements:
         a.   The minor or adult shall perform at least fifty (50) hours of
community service.
         b.   Reasonable effort shall be made to assign the minor or adult to a
type of community service that is reasonably expected to have the most
rehabilitative effect on the minor or adult, including community service that
involves graffiti removal.
   D.   Rewards And Reimbursements For Information: Any person providing
information which results in the arrest and conviction of a person for
defacement under the provisions of this section, may, at the discretion of the
city council, be paid a reward of up to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). No
claim for a reward shall be allowed unless the city investigates and verifies
the accuracy of the claim and determines that the requirements of this section
have been satisfied.
   E.   Graffiti As Nuisance: The existence of graffiti on public or private
property in violation of this section is expressly declared to be a public
nuisance and, therefore, is subject to the removal and abatement provisions
specified in this section. It is the duty of both the owner of the property to
which the graffiti has been applied and any person who may be in possession or
who has the right to possess such property to, at all times, keep the property
clear of graffiti.
   F.   Removal Of Graffiti By Perpetrator: Any person applying graffiti on
public or private property shall have the duty to remove the graffiti within
twenty four (24) hours after notice by the city or private owner of the
property involved. Such removal shall be done in a manner prescribed by the
chief of police, the community development director, or any additional city
department, as authorized by the city manager. Any person applying graffiti
shall be responsible for the removal or for the payment of the removal. Failure
of any person to remove graffiti or pay for the removal shall constitute an
additional violation of this section. Where graffiti is applied by an
unemancipated minor, the parents or legal guardian shall also be responsible
for such removal or for the payment for the removal.
   G.   Removal Of Graffiti By Property Owner Or City: If graffiti is not
removed by the perpetrator according to subsection F of this section, graffiti
shall be removed pursuant to the following provisions:
      1.   Property Owner Responsibility: It is unlawful for any person who is
the owner or who has primary responsibility for control of property or for
repair or maintenance of property in the city, to permit property that is
defaced with graffiti to remain defaced for a period of more than seven (7)
days after service by first class mail of notice of the defacement. The notice
shall contain the following information:
         a.   The street address and legal description of the property
sufficient for identification of the property;
         b.   A statement that the property is a potential graffiti nuisance
property with a concise description of the conditions leading to the finding;
         c.   A statement that the graffiti must be removed within seven (7)
days after receipt of the notice and that if the graffiti is not abated within
that time the city will declare the property to be a public nuisance, subject
to the abatement procedures in this subsection G; and
         d.   An information sheet identifying any graffiti removal assistance
programs available through the city and private graffiti removal contractors.
      2.   Exceptions To Property Owner Responsibility: The removal
requirements of subsection G1 of this section shall not apply if the property
owner or responsible party can demonstrate that:
         a.   The property owner or responsible party lacks the financial
ability to remove the defacing graffiti; or
         b.   The property owner or responsible party has an active program for
the removal of graffiti and has scheduled the removal of the graffiti as part
of that program, in which case it shall be unlawful to permit such property to
remain defaced with graffiti for a period of more than fifteen (15) days after
service by first class mail of notice of the defacement.
      3.   Right Of City To Remove:
         a.   Use Of Public Funds: Whenever the city becomes aware or is
notified and determines that graffiti is located on publicly or privately owned
property viewable from a public or quasi-public place, the city shall be
authorized to use public funds for the removal of the graffiti, or for the
painting or repairing of the graffiti, but shall not authorize or undertake to
provide for the painting or repair of any more extensive an area than that
where the graffiti is located, unless the city manager, or the designee of the
city manager, determines in writing that a more extensive area is required to
be repainted or repaired in order to avoid an aesthetic disfigurement to the
neighborhood or community, or unless the property owner or responsible party
agrees to pay for the costs of repainting or repairing the more extensive area.
         b.   Right Of Entry On Private Property: Prior to entering upon
private property or property owned by a public entity other than the city for
the purpose of graffiti removal the city shall attempt to secure the consent of
the property owner or responsible party and a release of the city from
liability for property damage or personal injury. If the property owner or
responsible party fails to remove the offending graffiti within the time
specified by this section, or if the city has requested consent to remove or
paint over the offending graffiti and the property owner or responsible party
has refused consent for entry on terms acceptable to the city and consistent
with the terms of this section, the city shall commence abatement and cost
recovery proceedings for the graffiti removal according to the provisions
specified below.
      4.   Abatement And Cost Recovery Proceedings:
         a.   Notice Of Due Process Hearing: The city manager, or the designee
of the city manager, serving as the hearing officer, shall serve the property
owner of record and the party responsible for the maintenance of the property.
If a person different than the owner, with written notice of the city's intent
to hold a due process hearing at which the property owner or responsible party
shall be entitled to present evidence and argue that the property does not
constitute a public nuisance. If the owner of record cannot be found after a
diligent search, the notice may be served by posting a copy thereof in a
conspicuous place upon the property for a period of ten (10) days.
         b.   Determination Of Hearing Officer: The determination of the
hearing officer after the due process hearing shall be final and not
appealable. If, after the due process hearing, regardless of the attendance of
the owner or the responsible party or their respective agents, the hearing
officer determines that the property contains graffiti viewable from a public
or quasi-public place, the hearing officer shall give written notice in an
eradication order that, unless the graffiti is removed within seven (7) days,
the city shall enter upon the property, cause the removal, painting over (in
such color as shall meet with the approval of the hearing officer), or such
other eradication thereof as the hearing officer determines appropriate, and
shall provide the owner and the responsible party thereafter with an accounting
of the costs of the eradication effort on a full cost recovery basis.
         c.   Eradication Effort: Not sooner than the time specified in the
order of the hearing officer, the city manager, or the designee of the city
manager, shall implement the eradication order and shall provide an accounting
to the owner and the responsible party of the costs thereof.
         d.   Lien: As to such property where the responsible party is the
property owner, if all or any portion of the assessed eradication charges
remain unpaid after thirty (30) days, the portion thereof that remains unpaid
shall constitute a lien on the property that was the subject of the eradication
effort and shall be recorded with the county clerk's office. (Ord. 2015.10, 8-
3-2015; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
5-4-20: THEFT RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases used in this section shall
have the following meanings:
   CONCEAL: Conceal with regard to merchandise means, although there may be
some notice of its presence, that merchandise is not visible through ordinary
observation.
   DETENTION: Any merchant who has reasonable grounds to believe that a person
has committed retail theft may detain the person, on or off the premises of a
retail mercantile establishment, in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable
length of time for all or any of the following purposes:
      1.   To request identification;
      2.   To verify such identification;
      3.   To make reasonable inquiry as to whether such person has in his
possession unpurchased merchandise and to make reasonable investigation of the
ownership of such merchandise;
      4.   To inform a peace officer of the detention of the person and
surrender that person to the custody of a peace officer;
      5.   In the case of a minor, to immediately make a reasonable attempt to
inform the parents, guardian or other private person interested in the welfare
of that minor and, at the merchant's discretion, a peace officer, of this
detention and to surrender custody of such minor to such person.
   FULL RETAIL VALUE: The merchant's stated or advertised price of merchandise
including the aggregated value of property obtained from retail thefts
committed by the same person as part of a continuing course of conduct from one
or more mercantile establishments in a single transaction or in separate
transactions over a period of one year.
   MERCHANDISE: Any item of tangible personal property, including motor fuel.
   MERCHANT: An owner or operator of any retail mercantile establishment or any
agent, employee, lessee, consignee, officer, director, franchisee, or
independent contractor of the owner or operator.
   MINOR: A person who is less than nineteen (19) years of age, unemancipated,
and resides with his parents or legal guardians.
   PEACE OFFICER: A person defined in section 2-13 of the Illinois Code of
Criminal Procedure (720 ILCS 5/2-13).
   PREMISES OF A RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Includes, but is not limited
to, the retail mercantile establishment; any common use areas in shopping
centers; and all parking areas set aside by a merchant or on behalf of a
merchant for the parking of vehicles for the convenience of the patrons of such
retail mercantile establishment.
   RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Any place where merchandise is displayed,
held, stored or offered for sale to the public.
   SHOPPING CART: Push carts of the type or types which are commonly provided
by grocery stores, drug stores or other retail mercantile establishments for
the use of the public in transporting commodities in stores and markets and,
incidentally, from the stores to a place outside the store.
   THEFT DETECTION SHIELDING DEVICE: Any laminated or coated bag or device
designed and intended to shield merchandise from detection by electronic or
magnetic theft alarm sensor.
   THEFT DETECTION DEVICE REMOVE: Any tool or device specifically designed and
intended to be used to remove any theft detection device from any merchandise.
   UNDER-RING: To cause the cash register or other sales recording device to
reflect less than the full retail value of the merchandise.
   B.   Theft: A person commits theft when he or she knowingly:
      1.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
or
      2.   Obtains by deception control over the property of the owner; or
      3.   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
      4.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him or her
to believe that the property was stolen; or
      5.   Obtains or exerts control over property in the custody of any law
enforcement agency which any law enforcement officer or any individual acting
on behalf of a law enforcement agency explicitly represents to the person as
being stolen or represents to the person such circumstances as would reasonably
induce the person to believe that the property was stolen, and
         a.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property; or
         b.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such a
manner as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
         c.   Uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment, or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
   C.   Retail Theft: A person commits retail theft when he or she knowingly:
      1.   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transferred any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale
in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise; or
      2.   Alters, transfers, or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia
of value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise at less than the full
retail value with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full retail
value of such merchandise; or
      3.   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      4.   Under-rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full
retail value of the merchandise; or
      5.   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart; or
      6.   Represents to a merchant that he, she, or another is the lawful
owner of property, knowing that such representation is false, and conveys or
attempts to convey that property to a merchant who is the owner of the property
in exchange for money, merchandise credit or other property of the merchant; or
      7.   Uses or possesses any theft detection shielding device or theft
detection device remover with the intention of using such device to deprive the
merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of any merchandise
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment without paying the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      8.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner
and thereby intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property when a lessee of the personal property of another fails to return
it to the owner, or if the lessee fails to pay the full retail value of such
property to the lessor in satisfaction of any contractual provision requiring
such, within ten (10) days after written demand from the owner for its return.
A notice in writing, given after the expiration of the leasing agreement, by
registered mail, to the lessee at the address given by the lessee and shown on
the leasing agreement shall constitute proper demand.
   D.   Permissive inference: If any person:
      1.   Conceals upon his or her person or among his or her belongings
unpurchased merchandise displayed, held, stored, or offered for sale in a
retail mercantile establishment; and
      2.   Removes that merchandise beyond the last known station for receiving
payments for that merchandise in that retail mercantile establishment, then the
trier of fact may infer that the person possessed, carried away or transferred
such merchandise with the intention of retaining it or with the intention of
depriving the merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of such
merchandise without paying the full retail value of such merchandise.
   E.   Detention, affirmative defense:
      1.   A merchant may make a detention as permitted in section
5-4-20 off the premises of a retail mercantile establishment only if such
detention is pursuant to an immediate pursuit of such person.
      2.   A merchant shall be deemed to have reasonable grounds to make a
detention for the purposes of this section if the merchant detains a person
because such person has in his or her possession either a theft detection
shielding device or a theft detection device remover.
      3.   A detention as permitted in section
5-4-20 does not constitute an arrest or an unlawful restraint, as defined in
section 10-3 of the Illinois Code of Criminal Procedure, nor shall it render
the merchant liable to the person so detained (affirmative defense).
   F.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be fined as set by the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2019.11, 6-17-2019; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
5-4-21: CRIMINAL TRESPASS:
   A.   Vehicles: A person commits the offense of criminal trespass to a
vehicle when he or she, knowingly and without lawful authority, enters any
vehicle, aircraft or watercraft or any part thereof of another without consent
of the owner or legal occupant.
   B.   Real Property: A person commits the offense of criminal trespass to
real property when he or she:
      1.   Knowingly and without lawful authority enters or remains within or
on a building;
      2.   Enters upon the land of another after receiving, prior to the entry,
notice from the owner or occupant that entry is forbidden; or
      3.   Remains upon the land of another, after receiving notice from the
owner or occupant to depart.
      For purposes of item (1) of this subsection, this section shall not apply
to being in a building which is open to the public while the building is open
to the public during its normal hours of operation.
   C.   Public Property: (Park District, School, or Library Property) A person
commits the offense of criminal trespass to public property when he or she,
knowingly and without lawful authority, enters upon land or any building on
such land supported in whole or in part with public funds or belonging to any
governmental body after receiving, prior to such entry, notice that such entry
is forbidden, or remains upon such land or in such building after receiving
notice to depart.
   D.   Notice: A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within
the meaning of this section if he or she is notified personally, either orally
or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been
conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance or other reasonable
location to such land or the forbidden part thereof.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be fined as set by the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.. (Ord. 2020.08, 9-8-2020; amd. Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Curfew
5-5-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Children On Streets At Night: It is unlawful for a person less than
seventeen (17) years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street or highway at the following times unless accompanied
and supervised by a parent, legal guardian or other responsible companion at
least eighteen (18) years of age approved by a parent or legal guardian or
unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of this state
authorize a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to perform:
      1.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. Saturday;
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. Sunday;
      3.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday inclusive
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person to knowingly permit
a person in his or her custody or control to violate this subsection A.
   B.   Detaining Child: Every member of the police force, while on duty, is
hereby authorized to detain any such minor wilfully violating the provisions of
subsection A of this section until the parents or guardian of the child shall
take him into custody, but such officer shall, immediately upon taking custody
of the child, communicate with the parent or guardian. (1988 Code §26.202)
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule. (1988 Code §§ 26.202 and 26.203; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2005.78, 1-3-
2006; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 6
PARADES 1
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Permit Required; Exceptions
5-6-3: Parade Routes
5-6-4: Application for Permit; Fee
5-6-5: Standards of Issuance
5-6-6: Issuance of Permit; Contents
5-6-7: Denial of Permit; Notice and Appeal
5-6-8: Alternative Permit
5-6-9: Duties of Permittee
5-6-10: Public Conduct During Parades
5-6-11: Illegally Parked Vehicles; Towing
5-6-12: Revocation of Permit
5-6-13: Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 3, Chapter 3, Article G for concession stands provisions.
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   PARADE: Any parade, march, ceremony, demonstration, protest, assembly, show,
exhibition, pageant or procession of any kind or any similar display in or upon
any street, park or other public place in the City.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind. (1988 Code §26.401)
5-6-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form
or start any parade unless a parade permit shall have been obtained from the
Chief of Police.
   B.   Exceptions: This Chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   Funeral processions.
      2.   Students going to and from school classes or participating in school
sponsored activities; providing, such conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the relevant school board or trustees.
      3.   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(1988 Code §26.402)
5-6-3: PARADE ROUTES:
   A.   Routes Designated: The Chief of Police of the City or the acting Chief
of Police, in the event the Chief of Police is incapacitated, shall have the
right to issue permits for parade routes on the following streets and prohibit
the parking of motor vehicles on said streets a maximum of eight (8) hours
before any parade commences. The streets are as follows:
California Street.
Charles Street.
DeKalb Avenue, from West Elm Street to Route 23.
Exchange Street west of Sabin Street to North Cross Street.
Governor Street.
Sacramento Street.
Somonauk Street south from State Street to City limits.
South Main Street from State Street to end of South Main Street.
South Locust Street from East State Street (Route 64) to the end of South
Locust Street.
State Street (Route 23 and 64) east of Fair Street and west of Airport Road.
Townsend Street.
Turner Place.
Wild Street.
   B.   Governmental Bodies: The Chief of Police of the City, or the acting
Chief of Police, shall have the power to sign any application with any
governmental body to obtain a permit for use of said streets as parade routes
which may be required by the statutes of the State.
   C.   Hours: No parade may commence prior to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. nor
later than eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. (1988 Code §16.802)
5-6-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   Application: A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an
application with the Chief of Police on forms provided by such officer.
   B.   Filing Period:
      1.   An application for a parade permit shall be filed with the Chief of
Police not less than ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days before the
date on which it is proposed to conduct the parade. The Chief shall issue or
deny said permit within five (5) days of application. (1988 Code §26.403; 1994
Code)
      2.   Organization.
      3.   Duration of parade.
      4.   What parade will consist of.
      5.   State route to be used.
      6.   Time parade is to commence. (1988 Code §16.801)
   C.   Contents: The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade.
      2.   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by an
organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the
organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of such organization.
      3.   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be the
parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct.
      4.   The date when the parade is to be conducted.
      5.   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point.
      6.   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles
which, will constitute such parade; the type of animals, and the description of
the vehicles.
      7.   The hours when such parade will start and terminate.
      8.   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed.
      9.   The location by streets of any assembly areas for such parade.
      10.   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at any
such assembly area or areas.
      11.   The interval of space to be maintained between units of such
parade.
      12.   If the parade is designed to be held by and on behalf of or for any
person other than the applicant, the applicant for such permit shall file with
the Chief of Police a communication, in writing, from the person proposing to
hold the parade, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his
behalf.
      13.   Any additional information which the Chief of Police shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should
issue.
   D.   Late Applications: The Chief of Police, where good cause is shown
therefor, shall have the authority to consider any application hereunder which
is filed less than ten (10) days before the date such parade is proposed to be
conducted.
   E.   Fee: There shall be paid at the time of filing the application for a
parade permit a fee as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
(1988 Code § 26.403; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
5-6-5: STANDARDS OF ISSUANCE:
The Chief of Police shall issue a permit as provided for hereunder when, from a
consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, he finds that:
   A.   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route.
   B.   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the City to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
City.
   C.   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
City other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and area
contiguous thereto.
   D.   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly areas.
   E.   The conduct of such parade will not unduly interfere with the movement
of firefighting equipment enroute to a fire.
   F.   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury to
persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or create a violation of
civil or property rights or of any other law.
   G.   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute.
   H.   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods or event, and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit. (1988 Code §26.404)
5-6-6: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONTENTS:
   A.   Notice to City and Other Officials: Immediately upon the issuance of a
parade permit, the Chief of Police shall send a copy thereof to the following:
      1.   The Mayor.
      2.   The City Attorney.
      3.   The Fire Chief.
      4.   The Superintendent of Public Works.
      5.   The Postmaster.
      6.   The general manager or responsible head of each public
transportation utility, the regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected
by the route of the proposed parade. (1988 Code §26.408)
   B.   Contents of Permit: Each parade permit shall state the following
information:
      1.   Starting time.
      2.   Minimum speed.
      3.   Maximum speed.
      4.   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade.
      5.   The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by
the parade.
      6.   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof.
      7.   Such other information as the Chief of Police shall find necessary
to the enforcement of this Chapter. (1988 Code §26.409)
5-6-7: DENIAL OF PERMIT; NOTICE AND APPEAL:
   A.   Right To Deny: The chief of police or the acting chief of police shall
have the right to refuse to issue any parade permit that would affect the
health, safety and morals of the residents of the city. Said rejections and
reasons for same must be approved by the city council within twenty one (21)
days of the parade application. (1988 Code §16.801)
   B.   Denial Notice: The chief of police shall act upon the application for a
parade permit within five (5) days after the filing thereof. If the chief of
police disapproves the application, he shall mail by certified mail to the
applicant within five (5) days after the date upon which the application was
filed, a notice of his action, stating the reasons for his denial of the
permit. (1988 Code §26.405)
   C.   Appeal Procedure: Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal
the denial of a parade permit to the city council. A notice of appeal shall be
filed with the city clerk within three (3) days after receipt of notice of the
chief's action. The city council shall act upon the appeal at the next meeting
of said council after such filing. (1988 Code §26.406)
5-6-8: ALTERNATIVE PERMIT:
The chief of police, in denying an application for a parade permit, shall be
empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time or over a
route different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to
accept an alternate permit shall, within three (3) days after notice of the
action of the chief of police, file a written notice of acceptance with the
chief of police. An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements
of and shall have the effect of a parade permit under this chapter. (1988 Code
§26.407)
5-6-9: DUTIES OF PERMITTEE:
   A.   Compliance With Laws: A permittee hereunder shall comply with all
permit directions and conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   B.   Possession Of Permit: The parade chairman or other person heading or
leading such activity shall carry the parade permit upon his person during the
conduct of the parade. (1988 Code §26.410)
5-6-10: PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES:
   A.   Interference: No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct or impede
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   B.   Driving Through Parades: No driver of a vehicle, streetcar or trackless
trolley shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising a parade when
such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously designated as a
parade.
   C.   Parking On A Parade Route: The chief of police shall have the
authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of
vehicles along a highway or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a
parade. The chief of police shall post signs to such effect and it shall be
unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation
thereof. No person shall be liable for parking on a street unposted in
violation of this chapter. (1988 Code §26.411)
5-6-11: ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES; TOWING:
The police department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away any vehicle illegally parked;
including vehicles parked in any place where such parked vehicle creates or
constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks an entrance drive, exit drive or driveway,
blocks the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs the movement of any emergency
vehicle; or in any public place where signs have been legally posted either
limiting or prohibiting parking; or any vehicle not parked within designated
parking spaces on roadways, or any vehicle which has been parked in any public
street, public lot or other public place for a period of seven (7) consecutive
days in violation of section
6-7-2 of this code. Vehicles towed away shall be stored and shall be released
to the owner or operator thereof after payment of the applicable towing and
storage fees as set forth in the applicable contract for vehicle relocation
services entered into by the city of Sycamore. Applicable fees are provided for
in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2007.44, 1-7-2008;
amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
5-6-12: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The chief of police shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued
hereunder upon application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(1988 Code §26.412)
5-6-13: PENALTIES:
Any person failing to comply with this chapter by holding a parade without a
permit shall be subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. In addition, any person taking part in a parade
without the required permit and intending to be a part of such parade as
distinguished from a mere observer shall be subject to penalty as provided in
the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule; and further, any person
violating or failing to comply with any terms or provisions of a permit shall
be subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule if said person was responsible for holding the parade and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule if said person is found to have participated in such a parade. (1988
Code § 26.413; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Illinois Motor Vehicle Code Adopted
6-1-3: Regulatory Signs
6-1-4: General Speed Restrictions
6-1-5: Toy Vehicles
6-1-6: Commercial Truck Restrictions
6-1-7: Distracted Driving
6-1-8: Equipment Of Vehicles
6-1-8-1: Seat Belts; Required
6-1-8-2: Seat Belts; Child Safety
6-1-8-3: Unnecessary Noise
6-1-8-4: Emission Of Smoke Or Fumes
6-1-8-5: Securing Of Loads
6-1-9: Vehicle Seizure And Impoundment
6-1-10: Penalties
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Statutes: Unless otherwise indicated, the terms used in this title
shall have the meanings ascribed to them by the Illinois Compiled Statutes, as
amended from time to time.
   B.   General Definitions: When used in this title, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, have two (2) tandem wheels except scooters and similar devices.
   COMMERCIAL TRUCK: Any tractor truck and semitrailer or any part thereof,
solid waste collection vehicle, dump truck, concrete mixer truck, box type
truck, tanker trucks, buses; or any truck or vehicle registered as a commercial
vehicle or used for commercial purposes.
   INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the extensions of the property lines
of two (2) or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not such streets
cross.
   PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot or wearing in-line speed skates, including a
person with a physical, hearing, or visual disability.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the street or
intersection of streets.
   STREET: The entire width between property lines of each side or place of
whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a
matter of right for the purpose of motor vehicular traffic.
   VEHICLE: Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway or roadway except devices moved by human
power, and snowmobiles as defined in the snowmobile registration and safety
act. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-1-2: ILLINOIS MOTOR VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context or purposes thereof, all of the
definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and sections
of the Illinois vehicle code as amended, are by reference adopted as ordinance
definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and sections
of the village vehicle code. Any and all violations of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-101 to 5/20-402, inclusive, as amended shall be considered
violations of this chapter and each such violation shall subject the violator
thereof to the penalty provisions of this chapter; and the section numbers of
the Illinois motor vehicle code are adopted as section numbers of the ordinance
codified in this chapter and may be cited as such. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-1-3: REGULATORY SIGNS:
   A.   Posting Signs: The director of public works shall post suitable signs
in conformity with state law and city ordinance, indicating those intersections
where street users must stop or yield prior to entering said intersections and
shall post such other signs, in conformity with state law, respecting the use
of streets and parking and traffic thereon as the city council shall direct.
   B.   Temporary Regulation: The chief of police by and with the approval of
the director of public works is empowered to make regulations necessary to make
effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of this city, and to make
and enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or
special conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain
in effect for more than ninety (90) days.
   C.   Hearing Or Vision Impairment Signs: Upon application to the city,
owners of property abutting city streets who have hearing or vision impaired
residents residing thereon may be allowed to have a sign erected warning of
said hearing or vision impaired residents. The form of said sign shall be
approved by the police and street departments.
   D.   Unauthorized Signs: No person shall place, maintain or display upon or
in view of any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control
device or railroad sign or signal or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, nor shall any person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of
traffic or effectiveness of any traffic control device. Any such unauthorized
device is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be immediately removed and
disposed by any authorized personnel of the city.
   E.   Damage To Signs: It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure,
move or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-
18-2016)
6-1-4: GENERAL SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Speed Limits: It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any
street not under the jurisdiction of the department of public works and
buildings, the state or the county, in an urban district within the city to
travel at a speed in excess of twenty five (25) miles per hour, or in an alley
at a speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour. Provided that if the city
council, by ordinance, sets other limits, as provided by statute, then such
limits shall govern the rate of speed on the streets indicated in such
ordinance. The director of public works shall post appropriate signs showing
such speed limits. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-1-5: TOY VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, skateboards, scooters, coaster
wagons, sled or other toy vehicles to go upon any roadway other than at a
crosswalk; notwithstanding any other applicable penalty under city ordinance to
the contrary. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-1-6: COMMERCIAL TRUCK RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Truck Size, Weight And Load: Commercial trucks driven on all streets in
the city, excepting those streets hereinafter designated, shall conform to the
Illinois vehicle code as follows:
      1.   Width: 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-102 - Eight feet six
inches (8'6").
      2.   Height: 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-103 - Thirteen feet six
inches (13'6").
      3.   Length: 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-107 - Fifty five feet
(55') total length.
      4.   Weight: 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-111 - Eighty thousand
(80,000) pounds on all roadways unless otherwise posted.
   B.   Commercial Trucks On Residential Streets: It shall be unlawful to drive
any commercial trucks on the residential streets of the city of Sycamore,
except for the purpose of making a delivery. The route must be the most direct
route between the highway and the destination or by a route designated by
ordinance and marked with signage.
   C.   Vehicles Requiring Permit: Vehicles exceeding the restrictions set
forth in this section shall require a permit issued by the director of building
and engineering or his designee to travel on city streets. The oversize/
overweight permit shall specify the date of transit and exact route to be
traveled.
   D.   Excessive Idling: A person that operates a commercial truck may not
cause or allow the motor vehicle to idle unnecessarily when it is not actively
in motion or in use loading or unloading.
   E.   Compression Release Engine Brake: No person shall operate, or cause to
be used or operated any mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the
braking or deceleration of any vehicle by converting engine power to compressed
air, unless it was necessary to avoid injury or an accident. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-
18-2016)
6-1-7: DISTRACTED DRIVING:
   A.   Definitions: When used in this title, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
 
                    Manipulating items within the vehicle; reading; writing;
                    performing personal grooming with any device; interacting
DISTRACTED:         physically with pets or unsecured cargo; or engaging in any
                    other activity, which interferes with the proper operation
                    of vehicle equipment while operating a motor vehicle, as
                    evidenced by a contemporaneous moving traffic violation.
                    A device that is capable of transmitting or receiving
WIRELESS TELEPHONE: telephonic communications without a wire connecting the
                    device to the telephone network.
 
   B.   Prohibited: No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway
within the city while distracted except as otherwise provided in subsection C
of this section.
   C.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   The performance of any act necessary for the proper operation of a
vehicle.
      2.   Persons using a wireless telephone to make an emergency call to 9-1-
1 or other public safety emergency telephone numbers.
      3.   The performance of any act that is described as an offense against
traffic regulations governing the movement of vehicles in the Illinois vehicle
code. (Ord. 2020.27, 3-1-2021)
6-1-8: EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES:
6-1-8-1: SEAT BELTS; REQUIRED:
The regulations of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-603.1, as amended, are
adopted as the regulations governing the requirements of seat belt use. (Ord.
2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-1-8-2: SEAT BELTS; CHILD SAFETY:
The regulations of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 25/1 through 25/7, as
amended, are adopted as the regulations governing the child safety
requirements. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-1-8-3: UNNECESSARY NOISE:
It is unlawful to operate a vehicle which makes unusually loud or unnecessary
noise. For example, but not limited to, after market devices installed on the
vehicle, straight pipes, or glass packs. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-1-8-4: EMISSION OF SMOKE OR FUMES:
It is unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such an amount
of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as to endanger
the drivers of other vehicles. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-1-8-5: SECURING OF LOADS:
No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its load spills or drops on any
street or alley in the municipality. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-1-9: VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   A motor vehicle, operated with the permission, express or implied, of
the owner of record of that motor vehicle, that is used in connection with the
following violations, shall be liable to the city for an administrative penalty
as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule, in addition to any
towing and storage fees as hereinafter provided:
      1.   Driving while the driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate
a motor vehicle is suspended or revoked, in violation of section 6-303 of the
Illinois vehicle code, as amended, pursuant to Illinois secretary of state
action; except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment
if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to
failure to comply with emission testing.
      2.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's
license, in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois vehicle code, as
amended, if the period of expiration is greater than one year.
      3.   Operating a motor vehicle without having ever been issued a driver's
license or permit, in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois vehicle code,
as amended, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit due to a person's age.
      4.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs or intoxicating
compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of section 11-501 of the
Illinois vehicle code, as amended.
      5.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense or in violation of the Illinois cannabis control
act, as amended.
      6.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois controlled
substances act, as amended.
      7.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of section 24-1 (unlawful use of
weapons), 24-1.5 (reckless discharge of firearms), or 24-3.1 (unlawful
possession of firearms and firearm ammunition) of the Illinois criminal code of
1961, as amended.
      8.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of article 16 (theft and related
offenses) or 16A (retail theft) of the Illinois criminal code of 1961, as
amended.
      9.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony as defined in the Illinois criminal code of 1961.
      10.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to section 36-1 of the Illinois criminal code of 1961, as
amended.
      11.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated section 6-101 (driving without a valid
license), 6-303 (driving with a suspended or revoked license), or 11-501
(driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or intoxicating compounds) of
the Illinois vehicle code, as amended.
   B.   The applicability of this section and the fees for towing and storing a
vehicle under this section shall be as follows:
      1.   This section shall not replace or otherwise abrogate any existing
state or federal laws or city ordinances pertaining to vehicle seizure and
impoundment, and these penalties shall be in addition to any penalties that may
be assessed by a court for any criminal damages.
      2.   This section shall not apply if the motor vehicle used in the
violation was stolen at that time and the theft was reported to the appropriate
police authorities within twenty four (24) hours after the theft was
discovered, or upon verifiable proof that the vehicle was stolen at the time
the vehicle was impounded.
      3.   Fees for towing and storage of a motor vehicle under this section
shall not exceed those approved by the city manager or chief of police for all
towers authorized to tow motor vehicles for the police department.
   C.   A motor vehicle that is used in the violation of subsection A of this
section shall be subject to seizure and impoundment under this section. The
owner of record of such vehicle shall be liable to the city for a penalty as
set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule for the towing and
storage of the vehicle. For the purposes of this section, the “owner of record”
of a motor vehicle is the record titleholder as registered with the secretary
of state.
      1.   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a motor
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the
police officer shall provide for the towing of the motor vehicle to a facility
controlled by the city or its agents. When the motor vehicle is towed, the
police officer shall notify or make reasonable attempt to notify the owner,
lessee, or person identifying himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the
vehicle, or any person who is found to be in control of the motor vehicle at
the time of the alleged violations, if there is such a person, of the fact of
the seizure and of the motor vehicle owner’s or lessee’s right to an
administrative hearing and right to request a preliminary hearing to be
conducted under this section. The police officer shall also provide notice that
the motor vehicle will remain impounded pending the completion of an
administrative hearing, unless the owner or lessee of the vehicle or lienholder
posts a cash bond as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      2.   Whenever the owner of a motor vehicle seized pursuant to this
section requests a preliminary hearing within twelve (12) hours after the
seizure, the corporation counsel of the city or his designee shall conduct such
preliminary hearing within twenty four (24) hours after the seizure, excluding
Sundays and holidays. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to be heard at the preliminary hearing. The formal rules of
evidence will not apply at the hearing. If, after the hearing, the corporation
counsel or his designee determines that there is probable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle was used in the violation of subsection A of this section he
shall order the continued impoundment of the motor vehicle as provided in this
section unless the owner of the vehicle posts with the city a cash bond in the
amount as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. If the
corporation counsel or his designee determines that there is no such probable
cause, the motor vehicle will be returned without penalty or other fees.
      3.   Within ten (10) days after a motor vehicle is seized and impounded
pursuant to this section, the city shall notify by personal service or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, the owner of record or lessee of the
vehicle, and any lienholder of record, of the date, time and location of a
hearing that will be conducted pursuant to this section. The hearing shall be
scheduled and held, unless continued by order of the court or hearing officer,
not less than fifteen (15) days and not more than forty five (45) days after
the vehicle was seized. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to be heard at the hearing. Such hearing shall be conducted
pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of chapter 8 of this title.
The hearing shall be conducted by a hearing officer who is an attorney licensed
to practice law in Illinois for a minimum of three (3) years. At the conclusion
of the hearing, the hearing officer shall issue a written decision either
sustaining or overruling the vehicle impoundment. If after a hearing, it is
determined by a preponderance of evidence that the motor vehicle was used in
the commission of any of the violations described in subsection A of this
section the motor vehicle shall continue to be impounded until the owner pays a
penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus fees for towing and storage of
the motor vehicle. The penalty and fees shall be a debt due and owing the city.
However, if a cash bond has been posted the bond shall be applied to the
penalty. If it is determined at a hearing that the motor vehicle was not used
in such a violation, the vehicle or cash bond shall be returned without penalty
or other fees. All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall
be subject to review under the provisions of the Illinois administrative review
law. Unless the administrative hearing officer overturns the basis for the
vehicle impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee, or
lienholder of record until all administrative penalties and towing and storage
charges are paid. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, whenever
a person with a lien of record against a motor vehicle impounded under this
section has commenced foreclosure proceedings, possession of the motor vehicle
shall be given to that person if he agrees in writing to refund to the city the
net proceeds of any foreclosure sale, less any amount necessary to pay all
lienholders of record, up to the total amount of penalties imposed under this
subsection C.
      4.   Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed within thirty five (35) days
after the expiration of the time during which the owner of record may seek
judicial review of the city’s action under this section, or the time at which a
final judgment is rendered in favor of the city, or the time a final
administrative decision is rendered against an owner of record who is in
default, shall be deemed abandoned and may be disposed of as an abandoned or
unclaimed motor vehicle as provided by law in accordance with the provisions of
article II of chapter 4 of the Illinois vehicle code, as amended. (Ord.
2015.52, 4-18-2016; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
6-1-10: PENALTIES:
Violations of this chapter shall incur a penalty as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord. 2015.52, 4-18-
2016; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: No Parking Places
6-2-2: Parking At Curb
6-2-3: Vehicles Parked For The Purpose Of Sale
6-2-4: Alleys
6-2-5: Parking After Snowfall
6-2-6: Parking On Unapproved Surfaces
6-2-7: Unauthorized Use Of Parking Places Reserved For Persons With
Disabilities
6-2-8: Parking Of Commercial Or Recreational Vehicles, Trailers Or Truck
Tractors Restricted
6-2-9: Police Towing Of Vehicles
6-2-10: Penalties
6-2-1: NO PARKING PLACES:
It shall be unlawful at any time to permit any vehicle to stand in any of the
following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a policeman or traffic control device:
   A.   Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal, or stop sign from the
approaching side.
   B.   Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection or crosswalk.
   C.   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than ten feet (10').
   D.   At any place where the vehicle would be within three feet (3') of a
driveway or would block the use of a driveway.
   E.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of the entrance to any fire department station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such station within
seventy five feet (75') of such entrance when properly signposted.
   G.   On or across any sidewalk.
   H.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-
18-2016)
6-2-2: PARKING AT CURB:
No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the curb,
and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a street other than
parallel with the curb and with the two (2) right wheels of the vehicle within
twelve inches (12") of the regularly established curb line; except, that upon
those streets that have been marked for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked
at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-2-3: VEHICLES PARKED FOR THE PURPOSE OF SALE:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any city street, parking lot, or
right of way for the sole purpose of displaying it for sale. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-
18-2016)
6-2-4: ALLEYS:
No person shall park a vehicle within an alley for longer than one hour, in
such a manner as to block the egress and ingress of the alley, except for
active loading/unloading where a driver is available to move the vehicle in
case of an emergency. For the purpose of this section, "alley" shall be defined
as a public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots or
buildings and not used for general traffic circulation. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-
2016)
6-2-5: PARKING AFTER SNOWFALL:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street or in any
city parking lot for a period of twenty four (24) hours following the
accumulation of two (2) or more inches of falling snow.
   B.   Any vehicle parked in violation of the prohibition against parking
after snowfall is declared a nuisance and a hazard to public safety and any
police officer of the city is authorized to cause the removal of such vehicle
to a public garage or other place of storage at the expense of the owner of the
vehicle. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-2-6: PARKING ON UNAPPROVED SURFACES:
   A.   Unapproved Surface: No automobile, stock car, truck, van, trailer,
motor home, or tractor shall be parked on an unapproved surface on private
property. An approved surface shall include bituminous concrete, or portland
cement concrete, or properly bedded paving brick or similar materials approved
by the building and zoning commissioner or city engineer. This excludes
residences referenced in unified development ordinance 6.7.4.C.1.d. (Ord.
2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-2-7: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING PLACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES:
   A.   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not properly
displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with disabilities,
as defined by section 1-159.1 of the Illinois vehicle code, pursuant to section
3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301.2 of the Illinois vehicle code, or to a disabled
veteran pursuant to section 3-609 of the Illinois vehicle code, in any parking
place, including any private or public off street parking facility,
specifically reserved, by the posting of an official sign as designated under
section 11-301 of the Illinois vehicle code, for motor vehicles displaying such
registration plates. It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle in a
designated access aisle adjacent to any parking place specifically reserved for
persons with disabilities, by the posting of an official sign as designated
under section 11-301 of the Illinois vehicle code, for motor vehicles
displaying such registration plates. When using the parking privileges for
persons with disabilities, the parking decal or device must be displayed
properly in the vehicle where it is clearly visible to law enforcement
personnel, either hanging from the rearview mirror or placed on the dashboard
of the vehicle in clear view. Any motor vehicle properly displaying a
disability license plate or a parking decal or device containing the
international symbol of access issued to persons with disabilities by any local
authority, state, district, territory or foreign country shall be recognized by
state and local authorities as a valid license plate or device and receive the
same parking privileges as residents of the state of Illinois.
   B.   An individual with a vehicle displaying disability license plates or a
parking decal or a device issued to a qualified person with a disability under
section 3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2 of the Illinois vehicle code or to a
disabled veteran under section 3-609 of the Illinois vehicle code shall be in
violation of this section if: 1) the person using the disability license plate
or parking decal or device is not the authorized holder of the disability
license plate or parking decal or device or is not transporting the authorized
holder of the disability license plate or parking decal or device to or from
the parking location; and 2) the person uses the disability license plate or
parking decal or device to exercise any privileges granted through the
disability license plate or parking decals or devices under the Illinois
vehicle code.
   C.   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or private
off street parking facility may, after notifying the city's police department,
remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by a person with
disabilities which does not display person with disabilities registration
plates or a special decal or device as required under this section.
   D.   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of subsection A of
this section shall be fined as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule in addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal or
storage of any motor vehicle authorized under this section. It shall not be a
defense to a charge under this section that either the sign posted pursuant to
this section or the intended accessible parking place does not comply with the
technical requirements of section 11-301 of the Illinois vehicle code, state
regulations or local ordinance if a reasonable person would be made aware by
the sign or notice on or near the parking place that the place is reserved for
a person with disabilities.
   E.   As used in this section, "authorized holder" means an individual issued
a disability license plate under section 3-616 of the Illinois vehicle code, an
individual issued a parking decal or device under section 11-1301.2 of the
Illinois vehicle code, or an individual issued a disabled veteran's license
plate under section 3-609 of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-
2016; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
6-2-8: PARKING OF COMMERCIAL OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, TRAILERS OR TRUCK
TRACTORS RESTRICTED:
   A.   No commercial vehicle, trailer or truck tractor with a gross vehicle
weight or registered weight of eight thousand (8,000) pounds or more shall be
permitted to be parked on any public street or any municipally owned parking
lot for a longer period than two (2) hours.
   B.   No person shall park a recreational vehicle without motive power or a
trailer of any kind without motive power on any public street. This restriction
includes, but is not limited to, boat trailers, campers, pop ups, trailer
coaches, semitrailers, travel trailers, utility trailers, portable storage
units for moving purposes (commonly known as PODS) and every other vehicle
without motive power designed for carrying persons or property on its own
structure which is designed or intended to be drawn by a vehicle with motive
power.
   C.   No person shall park a recreational vehicle with motive power on any
public street for a longer period than twelve (12) hours. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a recreational vehicle with motive power may be parked on a public
street for up to twelve (12) hours if such recreational vehicle with motive
power is then being utilized for the actual and continuous loading or unloading
of goods or merchandise.
   D.   Persons seeking to park a recreational vehicle with motive power on a
public street for the purpose of loading or unloading of goods or merchandise
for a period of time longer than twelve (12) hours must obtain a permit from
the chief of police or his designee. The chief of police or his designee may
issue a permit authorizing a recreational vehicle with motive power to be
parked on a public street for the purpose of loading or unloading of goods or
merchandise for a time period not to exceed forty eight (48) hours. No more
than two (2) such permits shall be issued to any person or for any recreational
vehicle with motive power in any calendar year (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-2-9: POLICE TOWING OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing, stopped or parked
in violation of the provisions of this chapter such officer is authorized to
move the vehicle or to require the driver or other person in charge to move the
same to such a place as will not interfere with the use of the streets and
highways as herein prohibited.
   B.   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended in any street
where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, or the use of the
streets, driveways, sidewalks and other public places in the city, such officer
is authorized to cause the removal of such a vehicle to a public garage or
other place of safety, and the expense of such removal and storage in such
public garage shall be paid by the owner or operator of the vehicle. (Ord.
2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-2-10: PENALTIES:
Violations of this chapter shall incur a penalty as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING METERS AND PARKING LOTS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Permit Parking
6-3-3: Parking Spaces
6-3-4: Designation Of Metered Parking Spaces
6-3-5: Use Of Meters
6-3-6: Tampering With Meters
6-3-7: Penalties
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   General Definitions: When used in this title, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   DOWNTOWN PARKING ENFORCEMENT ZONE: The zone bordered by West Exchange Street
to the north; High Street to the south; Sacramento Street to the west; and
Locust Street to the east. This zone will have a variety of regulations, such
as the use of metered or restricted parking, to encourage the fair and
appropriate use of available public parking to support downtown businesses and
residents. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-3-2: PERMIT PARKING:
   A.   The city of Sycamore may issue permits to certain vehicles allowing for
an exemption to certain parking regulations. All permitted vehicles, while
parking in a restricted space, must display the authorized permit in the lower
left corner of the windshield. Permits will be issued by the city of Sycamore
police department.
   B.   All nonpermitted vehicles shall adhere to any posted parking
restrictions. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-3-3: PARKING SPACES:
   A.   The city manager shall have lines or markings painted upon the street
and in all public parking lots designating the parking spaces to be used and
vehicles shall park within said lines or markings.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle across any such line or
marking or to park a vehicle in such a position that it shall not be entirely
within the space designated by such lines or markings.
   C.   In all diagonal parking spaces, vehicles shall be parked head in only.
(Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-3-4: DESIGNATION OF METERED PARKING SPACES:
The city manager is hereby authorized and directed to install parking meters in
the downtown parking enforcement zone, both on street and off street, for the
purpose of and in such numbers and at such places as may be necessary for the
regulation of the parking of vehicles therein. Parking meters installed in the
downtown parking enforcement zone shall be installed upon the curb immediately
adjacent to the individual parking spaces hereinafter described. (Ord. 2015.51,
4-18-2016)
6-3-5: USE OF METERS:
   A.   Metered Parking Time Limits: The foregoing restrictions, as in this
chapter provided, shall be effective between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on all days, excepting, Sundays, and United
States federal holidays.
   B.   Deposit Of Coins: When any vehicle shall be parked in any space
adjacent to which a parking meter is located in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter, the operator of such vehicle shall, upon entering said parking
space, immediately deposit or cause to be deposited one or more coins in lawful
money of the United States Of America, in accordance with the value shown on
the meter in sufficient amount as to cover the time period parked. (Ord.
2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-3-6: TAMPERING WITH METERS:
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open or for any person to
deface, injure, tamper with or wilfully break, destroy or impair the usefulness
of any parking meter or other parking regulatory device, installed pursuant to
this chapter or to hitch any animals or riding vehicles thereto or to deposit,
or cause to be deposited, in any parking meter or other parking regulatory
device, any slug, device or metallic substitute for United States currency.
(Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-3-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Metered Parking - First Offense: Vehicles parked in violation of
subsection
6-3-5B of this chapter shall incur a penalty as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   B.   Metered Parking - Subsequent Offense: Vehicles remaining parked in
violation of subsection
6-3-5B of this chapter after having been issued a "first offense" citation at
least sixty (60) minutes prior on the same date may be issued a "subsequent
offense" citation. Vehicles continuing to remain parked in violation may be
issued additional "subsequent offense" citations once every sixty (60) minutes
on the same date. A vehicle parked in violation of this section shall incur a
penalty as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   C.   Tampering With Meters: Violations of section
6-3-6 of this chapter shall incur a penalty as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
CHAPTER 4
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Stop Intersections
6-4-2: Three-Way Stop Intersections
6-4-3: Four-Way Stop Intersections
6-4-4: Yield Streets
6-4-5: One-Way Streets
6-4-6: Right Turn Only
6-4-7: U-Turns
6-4-8: Speed Limits
6-4-9: School Speed Zones
6-4-10: No Parking Zones
6-4-11: Limited Parking
6-4-12: Overnight Parking
6-4-13: Limited Load Streets
6-4-14: Truck Routes
6-4-15: Penalties
6-4-1: STOP INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Stop Intersections Designated: It shall be unlawful to drive any
vehicle onto any of the following named streets without bringing said vehicle
to a full stop, giving the traffic on the named right of way street the right
of way. Said streets shall appear on the following list:
Right Of Way Street Stop Street
Right Of Way Street    Stop Street
Airport Road           Sycamore Park exit, east
Albert Avenue          Spartan Trail
Alden Road             Overland Road and Amherst Drive
Bailey Road            Chautauqua Lane
Bailey Road            MaryAnn Circle
Bailey Road            Reckitt Street
Bailey Road            Rogers Way
Becker Place           Bailey Road
Becker Place           Commercial Street
Becker Place           Townsend Street
Becker Place           Wild Street
Bethany Road           Aberdeen Court
Bethany Road           Aster Road
Bethany Road           Klein Road
Bethany Road           Mediterranean Drive
Bethany Road           Parkside Drive
Bethany Road           Perry Court
Bethany Road           Reston Boulevard
Bethany Road           Somerset Lane
Borden Avenue          Berkshire Court
Borden Avenue          Emmsen Drive
Borden Avenue          Krpan Drive
Borden Avenue          Meadow Lane
Borden Avenue          Scott Drive
Borden Avenue          South Prairie Drive
Brickville Road        Parker Street
Brower Street          Chautauqua Lane
California Street      Johnson Boulevard
California Street      Lucas Street
California Street      Ottawa Street
California Street      Page Street
California Street      Sycamore Street
California Street      West Sycamore Street
Cameron Street         Charles Waite Street
Cameron Street         John Marshall Lane
Capital Avenue         National Street
Carlson Street         Victor Street
Center Cross Street    Archie Place
Center Cross Street    Center Avenue
Center Cross Street    Grant Street
Center Cross Street    Roosevelt Court
Charles Street         Carlson Avenue
Charles Street         South Avenue
Coltonville Road       Ridge Drive
Commercial Street      Kerr Street
Commercial Street      Vance Street
Davis Drive            Boynton Street
DeKalb Avenue          Electric Park Drive
DeKalb Avenue          Elmwood Street
DeKalb Avenue          Fair Street
DeKalb Avenue          Fox Avenue
DeKalb Avenue          Foxpointe Drive
DeKalb Avenue          Meadow Creek Drive/Midlands Court
DeKalb Avenue          South Avenue
DeKalb Avenue          South Cross Street
DeKalb Avenue          South Sacramento Street
DeKalb Avenue          Stark Avenue
DeKalb Avenue          Washington Place
Dosen Drive            Oakland Drive
East Cloverlane Drive  Greenleaf Street
East Cloverlane Drive/ Turner Place
Bailey Road
East Lincoln Street    South Walnut Street
Edward Street          South Avenue
Edward Street          Washington Place
Electric Park Drive    Eastgate Drive
Electric Park Drive    Fairland Drive
Electric Park Drive    Highland Drive
Elm Street             Governor Street
Elm Street             Locust Street
Elm Street             Maple Street
Elmwood Street         Charles Street
Elmwood Street         Edward Street
Emmert Street          Scott Drive
Exchange Street        Ellen Street
Exchange Street        May Street
Exchange Street        North Governor
Fair Street            Albert Avenue
Fair Street            Alma Street
Fair Street            Archie Place
Fair Street            Birchwood Drive
Fair Street            Esther Avenue
Fair Street            Sunset Lane
Foxpointe Drive        Constance Lane
Foxpointe Drive        Devonshire Drive North
Foxpointe Drive        Devonshire Drive South
Foxpointe Drive        Hathaway Drive
Foxpointe Drive        Vaughan Court
Foxpointe Drive        Yorkshire Drive North
Foxpointe Drive        Yorkshire Drive South
Freed Road             Janet Street
Freed Road             John Street
Freed Road             Larson Street
Freed Road             Sandcastle Drive
Freed Road             William Street
Freed Road             Winfield Drive
Gateway Drive          Dosen Drive
Gateway Drive          Hauser Ross Drive
Hathaway Drive         Bristol Drive East
Hathaway Drive         Bristol Drive West
Hathaway Drive         Constance Lane
Heron Creek Drive      Briggs Street
Heron Creek Drive      CL Hudson Street
Heron Creek Drive      Charles Waite Street
Heron Creek Drive      Joseph Sixbury Street
Heron Creek Drive      Luther Lowell Lane
High Street            Crescent Drive
High Street            Locust Street
High Street            Maple Street
High Street            Park Avenue
High Street            South Walnut Street
High Street            Terrace Drive
Home Street            Parkside Drive
Janet Street           Larson Street
Janet Street           Susan Street
Kerr Street            Townsend Street
Kishwaukee Drive       Elm Street
Klein Road             Gateway Drive
Lindgren Road          Presidential Parkway
Locust Street          Home Street
Locust Street          Page Street
Luther Lowell Lane     Alden Drive
Luther Lowell Lane     Nathan Lattin Lane
Luther Lowell Lane     Northgate Drive
Lynn Avenue            Maness Court
Lynn Avenue            Park Avenue
Main Street            High Street
Maple Street           Johnson Boulevard
Maple Street           Page Street
Maple Street           West Sycamore Street
Maplewood Drive        Arneita Street
Maplewood Drive        Everett Street
Maplewood Drive        Florence Drive
Maplewood Drive        Kevin Street
Maplewood Drive        Martin Street
Maplewood Drive        Rose Drive
Meadow Lane            Emmert Drive
Meadow Lane            Stevens Avenue
Meadow Lane            Vaughan Court
Mt. Hunger Road        Arvle Circle
Mt. Hunger Road        Buckingham Drive
Mt. Hunger Road        Kelly Lane
Mt. Hunger Road        Martin Street
Mt. Hunger Road        Penny Lane
Mt. Hunger Road        Rose Drive
Nathan Latin Lane      Joseph Sixbury Street
National Street        Lindgren Road
National Street        Republic Avenue
North Avenue           Maple Street
North Cross Street     Exchange Street
North Cross Street     Loomis Street
North Grove Road       Alden Drive
North Grove Road       Celerity Drive and Coventry Circle
North Main Street      Exchange Street
North Main Street      Heron Creek Drive
North Main Street      Maplewood Drive
North Main Street      Merry Oaks
North Main Street      Mt. Hunger Road
North Main Street      North Avenue
North Main Street      Northgate Drive
North Main Street      Page Street
North Main Street      Sycamore Street
Northgate Drive        Celerity Drive
Northgate Drive        Dean Street
Northgate Drive        Luther Lowell Lane
Northgate Drive        Surrey Street
Page Street            Sacramento Street
Page Street            Walnut Street
Park Avenue            Becker Place
Park Avenue            Borden Avenue
Park Avenue            Chauncey Street
Park Avenue            Edward Street
Park Avenue            Garden Court
Park Avenue            George Street
Park Avenue            Orchard Lane
Park Avenue            Ottawa Street
Park Avenue            Waterman Street
Parkside Drive         Fairway Lane
Parkside Drive         Lincolnshire Drive
Parkside Drive         Cloverlane Drive
Perry Court            Lynn Avenue
Plank Road             Luther Lowell Lane
Plank Road             North Grove Avenue
Presidential Parkway   Republic Avenue
Reckitt Street         Wild Street
Rich Road              East Stonehenge Drive
Rich Road              Electric Park Drive
Rich Road              West Stonehenge Drive
Rich Road              Willow Street
Sabin Street           Exchange Street
Sabin Street           Swanson Street
Sacramento Street      Grant Street
Sacramento Street      Page Street
Sacramento Street      Sycamore Street
Somonauk Street        Becker Place
Somonauk Street        Bethany Road
Somonauk Street        Borden Avenue
Somonauk Street        Charles Street
Somonauk Street        Chauncey Street
Somonauk Street        Conlin Avenue
Somonauk Street        Edward Street
Somonauk Street        Garden Court
Somonauk Street        George Street
Somonauk Street        Georjean Court
Somonauk Street        High Street
Somonauk Street        Kerr Street
Somonauk Street        Lincoln Street
Somonauk Street        Orchard Lane
Somonauk Street        Ottawa Street
Somonauk Street        Reckitt Street
Somonauk Street        Turner Place
Somonauk Street        Vance Street
Somonauk Street        Waterman Street
South Cross Street     Cottage Row
South Cross Street     Emmert Drive
South Cross Street     Victor Street
South Cross Street     Wyman Street
South Main Street      Home Street
South Main Street      Ottawa Street
South Prairie Drive    Thornwood Road
Stark Avenue           Center Avenue
State Street           Airport Road
State Street           Alma Street
State Street           Center Cross Street
State Street           Dolin Court
State Street           Fair Street
State Street           Governor Street
State Street           Greeley Street
State Street           Jim Drive
State Street           Johnson Avenue
State Street           Kingsway Drive
State Street           Kishwaukee Drive
State Street           Locust Street
State Street           Maple Street
State Street           North Cross Street
State Street           Sabin Street
State Street           Walnut Street
Susan Street           Axcel Lane
Swanson Street         Vista Terrace
Sycamore Street        Pleasant Street
Sycamore Street        Walnut Street
Townsend Street        Vance Street
Vance Street           Commercial Street
Vance Street           Wild Street
Walnut Street          Home Street
Ward Boulevard         Baron Drive
Waterman Street        California Street
West Prairie Drive     Afton Road
West Prairie Drive     Aster Road
Winfield Drive         Susan Street
Wirsing Parkway        Dosen Drive
Woodgate Drive         Longwood Drive
Woodgate Drive         Pebblewood Drive
Wyman Street           Carlson Street
Yorkshire Drive North  Foxbend Drive
Yorkshire Drive North  Darling Court
Yorkshire Drive North  Marywood Court
Yorkshire Drive South  Foxbend Drive
 
(Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord. 2016.25, 9-6-2016; Ord. 2016.26, 9-6-2016;
Ord. 2016.32, 11-7-2016; Ord. 2019.13, 7-1-2019; Ord. 2019.49, 2-3-2020)
6-4-2: THREE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Three-Way Stop Intersections Designated: It shall be unlawful to drive
any vehicle into any of the intersections of the following named streets
without bringing said vehicle to a full stop before proceeding:
 
Charles Street    South Cross Street
East Vance Street Locust Street
Foxpointe Drive   Borden Avenue
Locust Street     Exchange Street
Motel Road        West Motel Road
North Avenue      North California Street
 
(Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord. 2016.32, 11-7-2016; Ord. 2019.43, 1-6-2020;
Ord. 2024.11, 7-15-2024)
6-4-3: FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Four-Way Stop Intersections Designated: It shall be unlawful to drive
any vehicle into any of the intersections of the following pairs of named
streets without bringing said vehicle to a full stop before proceeding:
Becker Place            Bailey Road
Becker Place            Parkside Drive
Borden Avenue           Park Avenue
Charles Street          Park Avenue
Cottage Row             Washington Place
East Exchange Street    North Walnut Street
East Lincoln Street     South Locust Street
East Sycamore Street    North Locust Street
Edward Street           South Cross Street
Elm Street              South Main Street
Elm Street              Walnut Street
Exchange Street         California Street
High Street             Kishwaukee Drive
High Street             Walnut Street
Home Street             Kishwaukee Drive
Kerr Street             Wild Street
Lincoln Street          South Main Street
Maness Court            Conlin Avenue
Ottawa Street           South Locust Street
Park Avenue             Conlin Avenue
Park Avenue             Georjean Court
Reckitt Street          Townsend Street
Somonauk Street         High Street
South California Street West Ottawa Street
South Locust Street     Turner Place
South Main Street       High Street
West Elm Street         Somonauk Street
West Elm Street         South California Street
West Exchange Street    North Maple Street
West Exchange Street    North Sacramento Street
West High Street        South California Street
Willow Street           Fairland Drive
 
(Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord. 2016.26, 9-6-2016; Ord. 2019.49, 2-3-2020;
Ord. 2024.11, 7-15-2024)
6-4-4: YIELD STREETS:
   A.   Yield Streets Designated: It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle
onto the following named streets indicated in the following schedule from the
indicated yield street without yielding the right-of-way, giving the traffic on
the named right- of-way street the right-of-way. Said schedule shall be
amended, from time to time by the City Council.
Right-Of-Way Street Yield Street
Right-Of-Way Street            Yield Street
Bailey Road                    Rogers Way
Brower Place                   Thurow Street
Brower Place/Rogers Way        Chautauqua Avenue
Cloverlane Drive               Fairway Lane
Crosby Avenue                  Fair Street
DeKalb Avenue                  High Street
Freedom Circle                 E. Becker Place
Grant Street                   Greeley Street
Grant Street                   Stark Avenue
Greenleaf Street               Fairway Lane
John Street                    Susan Street
Kevin Street                   Ashwood Street
Kevin Street                   Brian Street
Kevin Street                   Wendy Street
Larson Street                  Susan Street
Martin Street                  Ashwood Street
Mary Ann Circle                Parkside Drive
Meadow Lane                    Edward Street
Millbridge Drive/Concord Drive Ward Boulevard
Park Avenue                    Becker Place
Parkside Drive                 Independence Avenue
Pebblewood Drive               Bayberry Lane
Pebblewood Drive               Russet Lane
Sacramento Street              High Street, eastbound
South Locust Street            Reckitt Street
Stratford Lane                 Brandon Place/Wickford Lane
Truman Street                  Capitol Avenue
Wilkens Road                   Thurow Street
Wilkens Road/Brower Place      Reston Boulevard
William Street                 Susan Street
 
(Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord. 2017.22, 2-5-2018; Ord. 2019.13, 7-1-2019;
Ord. 2024.11, 7-15-2024)
6-4-5: ONE-WAY STREETS:
   A.   One-Way Streets Designated: The City Council shall, from time to time,
declare streets to be ordained one-way travel only. Said streets shall appear
on the following list:
 
Street           Direction From              To
Maple Street     South     State Street      Elm Street
Mason Court      North     West State Street Loomis Street
West High Street East      DeKalb Avenue     South Sacramento Street
 
(Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-4-6: RIGHT TURN ONLY:
   A.   Intersections Designated: The City Council shall, from time to time,
ordain that intersections be posted "Right Turn Only". Said intersections shall
appear on the following list:
Maple Street at State Street in a northerly and southerly direction onto State
Street. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-4-7: U-TURNS:
   A.   No U-Turns Designated: Changing direction of travel by making "U-turns"
or turning into the flow of oncoming vehicular traffic when not at an
intersection on the following streets is hereby prohibited:
 
Street            From              To
California Street Exchange Street   Elm Street
Elm Street        Main Street       Sacramento Street
Sacramento Street Exchange Street   Elm Street
Somonauk Street                     
State Street      California Street Locust Street
 
(Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-4-8: SPEED LIMITS:
   25 MILES PER HOUR
It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty
five (25) miles per hour on any street in an urban district (or residential
area) unless otherwise posted.
   35 MILES PER HOUR
It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle at a speed in excess of thirty
five (35) miles per hour on the following streets:
 
Street          Direction From              To
Airport Road    Both      State Street      Southern City limit
Bethany Road    Both      Parkside Drive    Western City limit
Mt. Hunger Road Both      North Main Street Hopkins Lane
Somonauk Street Both      Becker Place      Southern City limit
 
   40 MILES PER HOUR
It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle at a speed in excess of forty
(40) miles per hour on the following street:
 
Street        From       To
                        
Prairie Drive Peace Road Borden Avenue
 
   45 MILES PER HOUR
It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle at a speed in excess of forty
five (45) miles per hour on the following street:
 
Street           From          To
                              
Mercantile Drive DeKalb Avenue Peace Road
 
(Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord. 2016.01, 5-16-2016)
6-4-9: SCHOOL SPEED ZONES:
It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty
(20) miles per hour at or near the following locations when schoolchildren are
present. The Superintendent of Streets shall erect appropriate signs posting
the following:
Street From To
Street             From               To
                                     
Borden Avenue      Meadow Lane        Foxpointe Drive
Brickville Road    Freed Road         200 feet north of North
                                      School
California Street  Ottowa Street      Waterman Street
Center Cross       Archie Place       Grant Street
DeKalb Avenue      Washington Street  Fox Avenue
Fair Street        Alma Street        Archie Place
Freed Road         Larsen Street      200 feet east of Janet
Lincoln Street     Main Street        Walnut Street
Locust Street      Home Street        Turner Street
Main Street        500 feet south of  500 feet north of
                   Maplewood Drive    Maplewood Drive
North Cross Street 500 feet south of  500 feet north of
                   Cornerstone School Cornerstone School
Somonauk Street    Waterman Street    Charles Street
State Street       Fair Street        Center Cross
Waterman Street    Somonauk Street    Park Avenue
 
(Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-4-10: NO PARKING ZONES:
   A.   No Parking Zones Designated: Parking of vehicles is prohibited at the
following places on the following streets, said locations listed herein to be
amended, from time to time, by the City Council:
Street Side From To
Street                Side       From                   To
Airport Road          Both       Route 64               Well #9
Alma Street           South/East                        
Archie Place          South      Center Cross Street    Fair Street
Becker Place          Both       Somonauk Street        Park Avenue
Borden Avenue         North      Berkshire Court        Krpan Drive
Borden Avenue         South      South Prairie entrance Berkshire Court
Brickville Road       Both       North Avenue           600 block of Brickville
                                                        Road
California Street     Both       Exchange Street        North Avenue
California Street     East       High Street            Waterman Street
Carlson Street        West                              
Charles Street        South      Somonauk Street        South Cross Street
(cemetery)
Cottage Row           North      Washington Place       South Cross Street
Crescent Drive        West                              
Donlin Court          West       West State Street      South end of street
East Exchange Street  South      School condo's          
                                 driveway
East Stonehenge Drive West                              
East Sycamore Street  South      Main Street            Locust Street
Edward Street         South      Somonauk Street        Elmwood Street
Ellen                 West       Exchange               End of street
Elm Street            South      Governor Street        Locust Street
Elmwood Street        East       DeKalb Avenue          Charles Street
Fox Avenue            West                             Hillcrest Drive
Foxpointe Drive       West       DeKalb Avenue          Culver's Drive/
                                                        entrance
Governor Street       West       Exchange Street        Elm Street
High Street           North      DeKalb Avenue          Park Avenue
High Street           North      South Avenue           Sacramento Street
High Street           South      Main Street            Kishwaukee Drive
High Street           South      Somonauk Street        Park Avenue
Home Street           South      Kishwaukee Drive       Parkside Drive
Home Street           South      Main Street            Walnut Street
Home Street           South      Terrace Street         Kishwaukee Street
Kingsway Drive        Both       Parkway Drive/         State Street
                                 entrance
Kishwaukee Drive      Both       High Street            State Street
Kishwaukee Drive      West       Elm Street             Home Street
Kishwaukee Drive      West       State Street           Elm Street
Lincoln Street        Both       60 feet east of         
                                 Somonauk Street
Lincoln Street        North      Home Street            414 East Lincoln Street
Lincoln Street        North      Somonauk Street        Main Street
Lincoln Street        South      404 East Lincoln       Home Street
                                 Street
Locust Street         East       Alley                  Elm Street
100 block
Locust Street         West       Exchange Street        Sycamore Street
Locust Street         West       State Street           Home Street
Longwood Drive        North      Woodgate Drive         Meadowbrook Court
Longwood Drive        North      Woodgate Drive         North intersection with
                                                        Meadowbrook Court
Maertz Drive          East/west  Both sides of cul-de-   
                                 sac
Main Street           Both       State Street           Kishwaukee River bridge
Maplewood Drive       South      Prosser Drive          Everett Street
                                                        350' east of the
Maplewood Drive       North      Prosser Drive          centerline of IL Route
                                                        23
Mason Court           Both       State Street           Loomis Street
Meadow Lane           West       DeKalb Avenue          Stevens Street
                                                        300' North of the
Mediterranean Drive   Both       Bethany Road           Centerline of Bethany
                                                        Road
Mt. Hunger Road       North      Rose Drive             Main Street
                                                        170' east of the
Mt. Hunger Road       South      Main Street            centerline of Briden
                                                        Lane
National Street       Both       Republic Avenue        Lindgren Road
North Avenue          North      California Street      State Street
North Avenue          North      California Street      200 feet west of
                                                        California Street
North Avenue          South      Brickville Road        California Street
North Avenue          South      Main Street            Maple Street
Ottawa Street         North      Somonauk Street        Park Avenue
Ottawa Street         South      Main Street            Walnut Street
Page Street           North      North Main Street      North Maple Street
Page Street           South      Sacramento Street      California Street
Park Avenue           Both       High Street            Becker Place
Parkside Drive        East       High Street            Home Street
Plymouth Court        Both       Turnaround area at      
                                 east side
Roosevelt Court       Both       Both sides of cul-de-   
                                 sac
Roosevelt Court       North
Sacramento Street     Both       State Street           Exchange Street
Sarah Drive           East                             Peace Road
Somonauk Street       West       Waterman Street        Edward Street
South Avenue          East       DeKalb Avenue          Edward Street
South Cross Street    East       DeKalb Avenue          Edward Street
Spartan Trail         Both       Albert Avenue          DeKalb Avenue
State Street          South      Kingsway Drive         Sycamore Park
                                                        entrance
Terrace Drive         West       High Street            Home Street
Turner Place          South      Cloverlane Drive/      300 feet west on
                                 Bailey Road            Turner Place
Victor Street         South                             
Walnut Street         West       State Street           Exchange Street
Walnut Street         West       State Street           Home Street
Washington Place      West       DeKalb Avenue          Edward Street
West Exchange Street  North      North Main Street      North Maple Street
West Stonehenge Drive East                              
Woodgate Drive        Both                              
Woodgate Drive        Both       Longwood Drive         Pebblewood Drive
 
(Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord. 2016.27, 9-6-2016; Ord. 2016.32, 11-7-2016;
Ord. 2017.14, 12-4-2017; Ord. 2019.04, 6-3-2019; Ord. 2021.16, 10-4-2021; Ord.
2024.16, 9-3-2024)
6-4-11: LIMITED PARKING:
   A.   No Parking Times: It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle for longer
than the times indicated at the following places on the following streets:
    6:00 A.M. TO 6:00 P.M.
 
Street         Side  From            To
Lincoln Street South Somonauk Street Main Street
 
    7:30 A.M. TO 3:30 P.M. ON SCHOOL DAYS ONLY
 
Street         Side From          To
Fair Street    East DeKalb Avenue Archie Place
Johnson Avenue East State Street  High school campus
West Street    West Albert Avenue Esther Avenue
  
   7:30 A.M. TO 3:30 P.M. ON SCHOOL DAYS ONLY,
   EXCEPT FOR RESIDENTS FRONTING SAID STREETS
 
Street        Side From          To
Albert Avenue Both Fair Street   Spartan Trail
Esther Avenue Both Fair Street   West Street
Fox Avenue    Both DeKalb Avenue Hillcrest Street
West Street   West Albert Avenue Esther Avenue
 
    8:00 A.M. TO 4:00 P.M. MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY
 
Street             Side  From         To
North Avenue       North              
North Cross Street West  State Street Loomis Street
 
   10 MINUTE PARKING LIMIT
 
Street            Side In Front Of
South Main Street East Bank
 
    2 HOUR PARKING LIMIT EXCEPT
   RESIDENTS FRONTING ON SAID STREETS
Street Side From To
Street            Side  From              To
California Street West  High Street       Elm Street
East Sycamore     North Main Street       Locust Street
Street
Elm Street        Both  Locust Street     Main Street
Grant Street      Both  Sacramento        Stark Avenue
                        Street
High Street       North California Street Locust Street
Lucas Street      Both                    
Main Street       East  Elm Street        Ottawa Street
Maple Street      Both  High Street       Ottawa Street
Maple Street      West  Elm Street        High Street
Roosevelt Court   South                   
Sabin Street      West  Swanson Street    State Street
Somonauk Street   Both  Ottawa Street     High Street
West Exchange     Both  Sacramento        Maple Street
Street                  Street
 
   NO PARKING 8:00 A.M. TO 5:00 P.M. MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY
   EXCEPT RESIDENTS FRONTING ON SAID STREETS
 
Street       Side From            To
Maple Street West Exchange Street Sycamore Street
Maple Street West High Street     Ottawa Street
Maple Street West Sycamore Street Page Street
 
   B.   Parking Limits At Sacramento Street And State Street Parking Lot:
      1.   Restrictions: A vehicle may park in any space located in the parking
lot situated at the southeast corner of the intersection of Sacramento Street
and State Street and may occupy said space for no more than four (4)
consecutive hours. This time limit shall apply to vehicles that do not have a
chamber of commerce permit. The time limit shall apply Monday through Saturday
from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. through six o'clock (6:00) P.M. Furthermore,
there shall be no parking in said parking lot from two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
through six o'clock (6:00) A.M. every Friday, and parking after snowfall shall
be governed by section
6-2-5 of this title.
   C.   Parking By Permit Only: Parking shall be allowed by permit only in the
six (6) diagonal spaces on southwest side of the one hundred (100) block of
West Exchange Street in the city of Sycamore. The chief of police of the city
of Sycamore, or his designee, shall issue permits for parking in those
designated areas and the permits for display in the permittee's vehicle. (Ord.
2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-4-12: OVERNIGHT PARKING:
   A.   No person shall park a vehicle between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. on the following streets:
Street From To
Street            From              To
California Street Elm Street        State Street
Maple Street      Exchange Street   Elm Street
Somonauk Street   Elm Street        State Street
South Main Street State Street      Elm Street
State Street      Main Street       Locust Street
State Street      Sacramento Street Main Street
Sycamore Center                     
Parking Lot #1
 
(Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-4-13: LIMITED LOAD STREETS:
   A.   Weight Limits: Whenever the weight of vehicles permitted on a street is
limited by ordinance and signs indicating such limitations are posted, it shall
be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of such weight on such street,
except for the purpose of making delivery or picking up a load on the Limited
Load Street, in which case such vehicle may be driven on such street for not
more than the minimum distance necessary for the purpose.
   8,000 POUND WEIGHT LIMIT
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which, with its load, exceeds
eight thousand (8,000) pounds (4 tons) on the following named streets:
Street From To
Street            From             To
Borden Avenue     S. Prairie Drive Peace Road
Chauncey Street                    
Cottage Row       South Avenue     South Cross Street
Fair Street       State Street     DeKalb Avenue
Garden Court      Somonauk Street  Park Avenue
W. High Street    Main Street      Somonauk Street
Kingsway Drive                     
W. Lincoln Street Main Street      Somonauk Street
Loomis Street     Mason Court      North Cross Street
Mason Court       State Street     End
Orchard Lane      Somonauk Street  Park Avenue
Ottawa Street     Main Street      Park Avenue
South Avenue      Edward Street    Wyman Street
Stark Avenue      DeKalb Avenue    Cottage Row
Swanson Street                     
Woodgate Drive                     
 
(Ord. 2021.09, 6-21-2021)
6-4-14: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Streets Designated: The following streets in the city are hereby
designated as class II truck routes as adopted and defined by the Illinois
vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-111(g), 5/15-102 and 5/15-
107, and the entire street under the jurisdiction of the city shall be deemed a
class II truck route unless otherwise limited herein:
Street From To
Street              From                To
Becker Place        Park Avenue         Somonauk Street
Bethany Road                            
Borden Avenue       Park Avenue         Somonauk Street
Borden Avenue       Park Avenue         South Prairie Drive
California Street   North Avenue        High Street
Chauncey Street     West of Park Avenue  
Crosby Avenue                           
DeKalb Avenue       Center Cross Street Elm Street
Elm Street          DeKalb Avenue       Main Street
Exchange Street     North Cross Street  Route 23
Fair Street         Route 64            Crosby Avenue
Gateway                                 
High Street         Park Avenue         Elm Street
Main Street         Elm Street          Route 23
Maple Street        Elm Street          Exchange Street
May Street                              
Meadow Lane         Route 23            Spartan Trail
North Avenue                            
North Cross Street                      
Page Street         Sacramento Street   Locust Street
Park Avenue         Becker Place        High Street
Sacramento Street   Page Street         Route 64
Somonauk Road                           
South Avenue        Edward Street       Elm Street
South Prairie Drive Borden Avenue       Peace Road
Spartan Trail                           
West Oakland                            
West Prairie Drive  Borden Avenue       Peace Road
 
   B.   Signs: The Public Works Director is directed to place the appropriate
signs designating class II truck routes on the appropriate streets. (Ord.
2021.09, 6-21-2021)
6-4-15: PENALTIES:
Violations of this chapter shall incur a penalty as set out in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 5
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Use Of Roadway/Sidewalk
6-5-2: Roadway Solicitation
6-5-3: Penalties
6-5-1: USE OF ROADWAY/SIDEWALK:
   A.   Pedestrian Crossing Roadway: Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any
point other than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at
an intersection shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Standing And Loitering:
      1.   Roadway: No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway if such act
interferes with the lawful movement of traffic.
      2.   Sidewalk: It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any
sidewalk, except as near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb
line if such standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other
pedestrians.
   C.   Walking Along Roadways:
      1.   Where sidewalks are provided and free of obstructions, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
      2.   Where sidewalks are not provided, pedestrians walking along and upon
a highway shall walk on its shoulder facing traffic, and upon meeting a vehicle
shall step off to the left. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-5-2: ROADWAY SOLICITATION:
No person shall stand on a city street for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle, except when all of the
following conditions are complied with:
   A.   Stop Intersection: Said solicitation shall occur only at intersections
where all traffic is required by law to come to a full stop. No solicitation
may occur on Illinois Route 23, Illinois Route 64, or Peace Road.
   B.   Charitable Purposes: Said solicitation shall only be done by members of
organizations registered with the attorney general of the state under "an act
to regulate solicitations and collection of funds for charitable purposes".
   C.   Fundraising: Said solicitation shall only be undertaken by chapters,
clubs, charities, or societies that have a Sycamore mailing address. Exception:
When a chapter, club, charity or society may directly serve Sycamore citizens
but does not have a Sycamore mailing address, a solicitation permit may be
issued at the discretion of the city manager.
   D.   Liability: All persons engaging in said solicitations shall be liable
for any injuries to any person or property during the solicitation, which is
casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of said person or soliciting
agent.
   E.   Age Limitation: All persons engaging in said solicitation shall be
eighteen (18) years of age or older.
   F.   Vest: All persons engaging in such solicitation shall wear a high
visibility vest with iridescent markings.
   G.   Time Limitation: All solicitations must occur during daylight hours.
(Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-5-3: PENALTIES:
Violations of this chapter shall incur a penalty as set out in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 6
BICYCLES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Bicycle Registration
6-6-2: Riding Double
6-6-3: Bicycle Equipment
6-6-4: Clinging To Vehicles
6-6-5: Penalties
6-6-1: BICYCLE REGISTRATION:
A resident of the city may register a bicycle with the police department solely
for the purpose of identification in case of loss. The police department will
provide a sticker that will be applied directly to the bicycle and shall keep a
record of all such registrations. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-6-2: RIDING DOUBLE:
No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the number for
which it is designed and equipped, except that an adult rider may carry a child
securely attached to his person in an attached seat, backpack, or sling. (Ord.
2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-6-3: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT:
Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
approved by the department which shall be visible from all distances from one
hundred feet (100') to six hundred feet (600') to the rear when directly in
front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a
red light visible from a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the
rear may be used in lieu of the red reflector. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-6-4: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle
shall attach the same or themselves to any vehicle upon a roadway. (Ord.
2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-6-5: PENALTIES:
Violations of this chapter shall incur a penalty as set out in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 7
INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Inoperative Vehicles Prohibited
6-7-3: Notice Of Violation And Appeal Process
6-7-4: Towing Of Inoperative Vehicles
6-7-5: Penalties
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
   ABANDONED: Any vehicle that remains unmoved on a public right of way for a
period of more than seven (7) consecutive days or more.
   INOPERATIVE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven
(7) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed or on which the
engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own power. It
shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable
of being driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service
or repair operations. Nothing in this section shall apply to any motor vehicle
that is kept within a building when not in use, to operable restored vehicles
from twenty five (25) years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises on
the place of business engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
   UNLICENSED: Any motor vehicle that does not have a valid vehicle license and
registration posted on the vehicle. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-7-2: INOPERATIVE VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person shall leave any inoperative, abandoned, or unlicensed vehicle on any
street, highway, or other public or private property within the city. All
inoperable, abandoned, and unlicensed motor vehicles, whether on public
property or in view of the general public on private property, are declared a
nuisance. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-7-3: NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND APPEAL PROCESS:
No person in charge or control of any property within the city, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any inoperative
vehicle to remain on such property longer than seven (7) days after written
notice. In the event any person desires to appeal said notice, such appeal must
be made to the chief of police within fourteen (14) days of receipt of notice,
said appeal to be filed, in writing. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-7-4: TOWING OF INOPERATIVE VEHICLES:
   A.   Any member of the police department is hereby authorized to remove or
have removed any vehicle on public property within the city which reasonably
appears to be in violation of this chapter. Such vehicle shall be impounded
until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with the laws of the state.
The owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for all towing and storage costs.
   B.   If an abandoned vehicle is found on private property, where it is not
posted as a tow risk area, and where the owner of the property has an
expectation that no other vehicles would be on their property except for their
own vehicles, the vehicle may be towed, with police authorization and the
written permission from the owner of the property. An attempt will be made to
contact the owner of the vehicle prior to the tow. There is no time
requirement. The owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for all towing and
storage costs. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016)
6-7-5: PENALTIES:
Violations of this chapter shall incur a penalty as set out in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2015.51, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 8
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF VEHICULAR VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
6-8-1: Title
6-8-2: Purpose
6-8-3: Establishment
6-8-4: Administration
6-8-5: Procedure
6-8-6: Administrative Hearings
6-8-7: Additional Notices
6-8-8: Final Determination Of Liability
6-8-9: Administrative Review
6-8-10: Contest By Mail Procedures
6-8-11: Schedule Of Fines And Penalties
6-8-12: Certified Report; Contesting
6-8-13: Immobilization, Towing And Impoundment
6-8-14: Judicial Review
6-8-15: Debt To City
6-8-16: Judgment
6-8-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be entitled the CITY OF SYCAMORE ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
OF VIOLATIONS OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE STANDING, PARKING OR
CONDITION OF VEHICLES ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2015.53, 4-18-2016)
6-8-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the fair and efficient
enforcement through administrative adjudication of violations of ordinances
regulating the standing and parking of vehicles and the condition and use of
vehicle equipment. The administrative adjudication system set forth in this
chapter is established pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3.
(Ord. 2015.53, 4-18-2016)
6-8-3: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby created a system providing for the administrative adjudication
of vehicular standing and parking violations and vehicle compliance violations.
For the purposes of this chapter "compliance violation" or "compliance
regulation violations" means a violation of an ordinance governing the
condition or use of equipment on a vehicle. (Ord. 2015.53, 4-18-2016)
6-8-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The system of administrative adjudication of vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violation shall provide for a traffic compliance
administrator, hearing officer, and system coordinator/computer operator with
the power, authority, and limitations as are hereinafter set forth:
   A.   Traffic Compliance Administrator: The traffic compliance administrator
shall be appointed by the city manager. The traffic compliance administrator
shall be empowered and is hereby authorized and directed to:
      1.   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
vehicular standing, parking, and compliance regulation violations.
      2.   Adopt, distribute and process standing, parking, and compliance
violation notices and other notices as may be required under this chapter or as
may be reasonably required to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
      3.   Collect money paid as fines and penalties assessed for violations of
parking and compliance ordinances.
      4.   Certify copies of final determinations of standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violations liability and factual reports verifying that
the final determination of standing, parking, and compliance regulation
violations liability was issued in accordance with this chapter and section 11-
208.3 of the Illinois vehicle code, as amended.
      5.   Certify reports to the Illinois secretary of state concerning
initiation of suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, hereinafter set forth, and those of section 6-306.5
of the Illinois vehicle code, as amended.
      6.   Review final determinations of vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violations liability, validity of notices of impending
impoundment or validity of notice of impending driver's license suspension, in
an administrative review capacity in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, hereinafter set forth.
      7.   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the administrative adjudication system hereby created.
      8.   Obtain the corporation counsel's advice and consent regarding the
method of collecting unpaid fines and penalties by either filing complaints in
the circuit court or selecting or appointing an individual or agency to act on
behalf of this city in filing complaints seeking judgments for unpaid fines or
penalties and pursuit of all postjudgment remedies available by current law.
   B.   Hearing Officer: The hearing officers shall be appointed by the city
manager and shall serve pursuant to the terms set forth in an employment
agreement for such services as determined by the city manager. Hearing officers
shall be subject to removal at the sole discretion of the city manager. To
ensure the efficient operation of the administrative hearings, the city manager
may appoint more than one hearing officer. A hearing officer shall:
      1.   Preside over the administrative hearings, established herein, as the
adjudicator.
      2.   Administer oaths.
      3.   Issue subpoenas to secure the attendance of witnesses and the
production of relevant papers or documentation provided the applicable witness
fees provided in section 4.3 of the circuit courts act, as amended, have been
paid by the party requesting the subpoena.
      4.   Assess fines and penalties for the violation of vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violations set forth in section
6-8-11 of this chapter.
      5.   Make a final determination of:
         a.   The liability for any vehicular standing, parking and compliance
regulation.
         b.   The validity of notice of any impending impoundment.
         c.   The validity of notice of impending driver's license suspension
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter hereinafter set forth.
      6.   Provide for the accurate recording of the administrative
adjudication hearings.
   C.   System Coordinator/Computer Operator: The system coordinator/computer
operator shall be appointed by the city manager and is hereby authorized and
directed to operate and maintain the computer programs for the administrative
adjudication system created in this chapter. The system coordinator/computer
operator shall be responsible for entering and tracking data and producing and
when applicable, generating written documentation pertaining to:
      1.   Violation notice information.
      2.   Hearing dates and notice dates.
      3.   Fine and penalty assessments and payments.
      4.   Issuance of payment receipts.
      5.   Succeeding notices of hearing dates, final determination of
liability, notice of impending impoundment, and notice of impending driver's
license suspension, as directed by the traffic compliance administrator in
accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth.
      6.   Records of appearances and nonappearances at administrative
hearings, pleas entered, fines and penalties assessed and paid.
   D.   Multiple Positions: Nothing in this chapter shall be intended to
prohibit one person from holding and fulfilling the requirements of one or more
of the above stated positions. (Ord. 2015.53, 4-18-2016)
6-8-5: PROCEDURE:
The system of administrative adjudication of vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violations shall be in accordance with the following
procedures and final determinations of liability of vehicular standing,
parking, and compliance regulation violations, validity of notice of impending
impoundment, validity of notice of impending driver's license suspension,
impoundment of vehicle and collections shall be made only in accordance with
the provisions set forth below:
   A.   Authorization: All full time city police officers, auxiliary police
officers, community service officers, parking enforcement officers, and other
specifically appointed individuals shall have the authority to issue violation
notices.
   B.   Violation Notice: A vehicular standing, parking, and compliance
regulation violation notice ("violation notice") shall be issued by the persons
authorized herein and shall contain information and shall be served, certified
and have evidentiary admissibility as is hereinafter set forth.
   C.   Detection Of Violations: Any individual authorized to issue a violation
notice pursuant to this chapter who detects a violation of any applicable
provision of this code shall issue and serve a notice of violation as set forth
in this chapter.
   D.   Contents Of Violation Notice: The vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violation notice shall contain, but shall not be limited
to, the following information:
      1.   The date, time and place of the violation.
      2.   The particular vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violated.
      3.   The vehicle make and state registration number.
      4.   The fine and any penalty which may be assessed for late payment.
      5.   The identification number of the person issuing the notice and his
or her signature which shall certify the correctness of the specified
information as provided in section 11-208.3 of the Illinois vehicle code, as
amended.
      6.   Information as to the availability of an administrative hearing at
which the registered owner or lessee may appear in person and contest the
violation notice on its merits and the time and manner in which such hearing
may be had.
      7.   The date, time, and place of an administrative hearing at which the
violation may be contested on its merits or a statement the person will be
notified of a hearing time.
      8.   Payment of the indicated fine and any late payment penalty shall
operate as a final disposition of the violation.
      9.   Information as to the availability for an adjudication by mail by
which the registered owner or lessee may contest by mail without personally
appearing the merits of the violation notice and the manner in which such
contest by mail may be had.
   E.   Service Of Violation Notices: Service of the violation notices shall be
made by the person issuing such notice by either:
      1.   Affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to an unlawfully
standing or parked vehicle.
      2.   Handing the notice to the registered owner, operator or lessee of
the vehicle, if present.
   F.   Certification Of Facts Alleged In Violation Notice: The correctness of
facts contained in the vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violation notices shall be certified by the person issuing said notice by
either:
      1.   Signing his or her name to the notices at the time of service.
      2.   Signing a single certificate, to be retained by the traffic
compliance administrator, attesting to the correctness of all notices produced
by the device while under his/her control when the violation notice is produced
by a computer device.
   G.   Retention Of Violation Notices: The original or a facsimile of the
violation notices shall be retained by the traffic compliance administrator and
kept as a record in the ordinary course of business.
   H.   Prima Facie Evidence Of Correctness: Any violation notices issued,
signed and served in accordance herewith, or a copy of the notice, shall be
prima facie correct and shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the
facts shown on the notice.
   I.   Admissibility: The violation notices or copies shall be admissible in
any subsequent administrative or legal proceeding.
   J.   Action Upon Receiving Violation Notice: A person to whom a parking or
compliance violation notice has been served pursuant to this section shall
within twenty one (21) days from the date of the parking or compliance
violation notice: 1) pay the indicated fine; or 2) submit the materials set
forth in section
6-8-10 of this chapter to obtain an adjudication by mail; or 3) request an
administrative hearing as set forth in section
6-8-6 of this chapter to contest the charged violation. A response by mail
shall be deemed timely if postmarked within twenty one (21) days of the
issuance of the parking or compliance violation notice.
   K.   Contest By Mail: If the respondent submits documentary evidence to
contest by mail pursuant to section
6-8-10 of this chapter, the respondent shall be served with a copy of the
hearing officer's determination in accordance with section
6-8-10 of this chapter.
   L.   Administrative Hearing: If the respondent requests an administrative
hearing to contest the cited violation pursuant to section
6-8-6 of this chapter, the respondent shall be served with notice of the date,
time and location of the hearing in accordance with section
6-8-6 of this chapter.
Where a respondent who has requested an administrative hearing either fails to
pay the indicated fine prior to the hearing or appear at a hearing, a
determination of parking or compliance liability, as the case may be, shall be
entered in the amount of the fine indicated on the notice of violation. Failure
to pay the fine within twenty one (21) days of issuance of a determination of
liability will result in the imposition of a late payment penalty pursuant to
section
6-8-11 of this chapter. Upon the occurrence of a final determination of
liability, any unpaid fine or penalty will constitute a debt due and owing the
city. The respondent shall be served with a notice of the final determination
of liability in accordance with section
6-8-8 of this chapter.
   M.   Second Notice Of Violation: If no response is made in accordance with
subsection J of this section, the city traffic compliance administrator shall
cause a second notice of violation to be sent to the respondent in accordance
with subsection O of this section. The notice shall specify the date and
location of the violation, the make and state registration number of the cited
vehicle, the code provision violated, the applicable fine, and the time and
manner in which the respondent may obtain an adjudication by mail or appear at
the scheduled hearing to contest the violation.
If the respondent fails to pay the indicated fine or submit documentary
evidence to obtain an adjudication by mail within twenty one (21) days from the
date of such notice, or prove compliance as provided in subsection
6-8-6D6 of this chapter, or appear at the scheduled hearing, a determination of
liability shall be entered in the amount of the fine indicated in the notice of
violation. Failure to pay the fine within twenty one (21) days of issuance of
the determination of liability will result in the imposition of a late payment
penalty pursuant to subsection N of this section. Upon the occurrence of a
final determination of liability, any unpaid fine or penalty will constitute a
debt due and owing the city. The second notice of violation shall provide the
above information.
   N.   Late Payment Penalties: Failure by any respondent to pay the fine for a
parking or compliance violation within twenty one (21) days of the issuance of
the determination of liability will automatically subject the respondent to a
penalty for late payment in accordance with section
6-8-11 of this chapter.
   O.   Notices: The city traffic compliance administrator shall serve the
notice of hearing, the second notice of violation, the administrative law
officer's determination, the notice of final determination of liability, the
notice of impending vehicle immobilization and the notice of impending driver's
license suspension, where applicable, by first class mail, postage prepaid, to
the address of the registered owner of the city vehicle as recorded with the
secretary of state of Illinois. If the vehicle is registered in a state other
than Illinois, the city traffic compliance administrator shall send the
appropriate notice to the address of the registered owner as recorded in such
other state's registry of motor vehicles. (Ord. 2015.53, 4-18-2016)
6-8-6: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
An administrative hearing to adjudicate the alleged standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violation on its merits shall be conducted in accordance
with the following provisions:
   A.   Persons Entitled To Hearings: The registered owner or operator of the
cited vehicle shall be entitled to an administrative hearing pursuant to
section 11-208.3 of the Illinois vehicle code, as amended, and the lessee of
the cited vehicle shall also be entitled to an administrative hearing pursuant
to section 11-1306 of the Illinois vehicle code, as amended, both statutory
provisions being incorporated into this chapter by reference.
   B.   Hearing Dates: Hearing dates shall be at the date, time and place as is
set forth in the violation notice issued and served, or such additional notices
issued in accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Audio Recordings: Hearings shall be recorded audibly.
   D.   Grounds For Review: A person charged with a vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation may contest the charge at an
administrative hearing limited to one or more of the following grounds with
appropriate evidence to support:
      1.   The person issued the violation notice was not the owner or lessee
of the cited vehicle at the time of the violation.
      2.   The cited vehicle or its state registration plates were stolen at
the time the violation occurred.
      3.   The relevant signs prohibiting or restricting parking were missing
or obscured.
      4.   The relevant parking meter was inoperable or malfunctioned through
no fault of the person issued the violation notice.
      5.   The facts alleged in the vehicular standing, parking, or compliance
regulation violation notice are inconsistent or do not support a finding that
the specified regulation was violated.
      6.   The illegal condition described in the compliance violation notice
did not exist at the time the notice was issued.
   E.   Hearing Officer's Determination: The hearing shall culminate in a final
determination of liability or nonliability made by the hearing officer after
considering testimony and other evidence without the application of the formal
or technical rules of evidence. The hearing officer shall, upon a final
determination of liability, assess fines and penalties in accordance with
section
6-8-11 of this chapter.
   F.   Representation By Attorney: Persons appearing to contest the alleged
standing, parking, or compliance violation on its merits may be represented by
counsel at their own expense.
   G.   Review: The final determination of any matter which may be decided by
the hearing officer may be reviewed as is hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 2015.53,
4-18-2016)
6-8-7: ADDITIONAL NOTICES:
Upon failure of the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle to pay the
indicated fine on the violation notice, submit the required materials to obtain
an adjudication by mail, or request an administrative hearing, or upon final
determination of violation liability, the traffic compliance administrator
shall send or cause to be sent additional notices which:
   A.   Shall be sent to the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle at
the address as is recorded with the Illinois secretary of state. If the vehicle
is registered in a state other than Illinois, the city traffic compliance
administrator shall send the appropriate notice to the address of the
registered owner as recorded in such other state's registry of motor vehicles.
   B.   Shall be sent to the lessee of the cited vehicle at the address last
known to the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of the lease.
   C.   Shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid.
   D.   Service of additional notices sent in accordance herewith shall be
complete as of the date of deposit in the United States mail.
   E.   The additional notices sent in accordance herewith shall contain, but
not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   Upon the failure of the registered owner or lessee of the cited
vehicle to pay the indicated fine on the violation notice, submit the required
materials to obtain an adjudication by mail, or request an administrative
hearing, an additional notice shall be sent, as above set forth, and shall
contain, but not be limited to, the following information:
         a.   Date and location of violation cited in the vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation notice.
         b.   Particular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violated.
         c.   Vehicle make and state registration.
         d.   Fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment.
         e.   Notice to the registered owner or lessee of their current status,
other than paid in full.
         f.   Date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which the
alleged violation may be contested on its merits.
         g.   Statement that failure to either pay the indicated fine on the
violation notice, submit the required materials to obtain an adjudication by
mail, or appear at the scheduled administrative hearing will result in a
determination of vehicle standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation
liability for the cited violation in the amount of the fine and any applicable
penalty indicated.
         h.   Statement that upon the occurrence of a final determination of
vehicular standing, parking, or compliance violation liability for the failure,
and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, available administrative or
judicial procedures for review, any unpaid fine or penalty will constitute a
debt due and owing the city.
         i.   Statement that any motor vehicle impounded in connection with an
alleged violation of section
6-1-9 of this title, as amended, that is not reclaimed within thirty (30) days
after the expiration of the time during which the owner of record may seek
judicial review of the city's action impounding such vehicle, or the time at
which a final judgment is rendered in favor of the city, or the time a final
administrative decision is rendered against an owner of record who is in
default, may be disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle as provided by law.
      2.   A notice of final determination of vehicular standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violation liability shall be sent following a
determination of liability, or upon conclusion of any administrative or
judicial review, as is hereinafter set forth, and the notice shall contain, but
not be limited to, the following information and warnings:
         a.   A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a
debt due and owing the city.
         b.   A warning that failure to pay the fine within twenty one (21)
days of the issuance of the final determination of liability will result in the
imposition of a late payment penalty in accordance with section 6-8-11 of this
chapter and may result in the city's filing a complaint in the circuit court to
have the unpaid fine or penalty rendered a judgment in accordance with section
11-208.3(f) of the Illinois vehicle code, as amended, and incorporated herein
by reference.
         c.   A warning that the vehicle owned by the person and located within
the city may be impounded for failure to pay fines or penalties for five (5) or
more vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violations.
         d.   A warning that the person's driver's license may be suspended for
failure to pay fines or penalties for ten (10) or more vehicular standing or
parking violations under section 6-306.5 of the Illinois vehicle code, as
amended, and incorporated herein by reference.
         e.   Statement that any motor vehicle impounded in connection with an
alleged violation of section
6-1-9 of this title, as amended, that is not reclaimed within thirty (30) days
after the expiration of the time during which the owner of record may seek
judicial review of the city's action impounding such vehicle, or the time at
which a final judgment is rendered in favor of the city, or the time a final
administrative decision is rendered against an owner of record who is in
default, may be disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle as provided by law.
      3.   A notice of impending suspension of a person's driver's license
shall be sent to any person determined to be liable for the payment of any fine
or penalty that remains due and owing on ten (10) or more vehicular standing or
parking regulation violations:
         a.   The notice shall state that the failure to pay the fine or
penalty owing within forty five (45) days of the date of the notice will result
in the city's notifying the Illinois secretary of state that the person is
eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings under section 6-306.5 of the
Illinois vehicle code, as amended, and incorporated herein by reference.
         b.   The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent
by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded
with the Illinois secretary of state. (Ord. 2015.53, 4-18-2016)
6-8-8: FINAL DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY:
A final determination of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violation liability shall:
   A.   Occur following the failure to pay the total assessed fine after the
hearing officer's determination of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance
regulation violation liability and the exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust
any administrative review procedures set forth in section
6-8-9 of this chapter; and
   B.   Include as part of the final determination of liability, an order
imposing late payment penalty fees in accordance with section
6-8-11 of this chapter for the failure to pay the indicated fine within twenty
one (21) days of the issuance of the final determination of liability and the
exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust any administrative review procedures
hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 2015.53, 4-18-2016)
6-8-9: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
A petition to set aside a determination of vehicular standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violation liability may be filed by a person owing an
unpaid fine or penalty in the manner and subject to the restrictions and
grounds hereinafter set forth:
   A.   A written petition to set aside a determination of liability must be
filed in the office of the traffic compliance administrator within, but not
later than, twenty one (21) days from the date the determination of liability
is made.
   B.   The traffic compliance administrator shall act upon the petitions
timely filed and render a decision thereon within fourteen (14) days of the
date filed.
   C.   The grounds for setting aside a determination of liability shall be
limited to the following:
      1.   The person against whom the determination of liability is made was
not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the date the vehicular
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation notices were issued.
      2.   The person having paid the fine and any penalty prior to the
determination of liability for the violations in question.
      3.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
   D.   Should the determination of liability be set aside, the traffic
compliance administrator shall:
      1.   Notify the registered owner, or lessee, as the case may be, that the
determination of liability has been set aside.
      2.   Notify the registered owner, or lessee, as the case may be, of a
date, time and place for a hearing on the merits of the violation for which
determination of liability has been set aside.
      3.   Notice of setting aside of the determination of liability and the
notice of the hearing date shall be by first class mail, postage prepaid, to
the address set forth on the petition to set aside the determination of
liability.
      4.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notices are
deposited in the United States mail. (Ord. 2015.53, 4-18-2016)
6-8-10: CONTEST BY MAIL PROCEDURES:
Persons who have been served vehicular standing, parking, or compliance
regulation violation notices, in accordance with this chapter, may contest the
validity of the alleged violation without personally appearing at an
administrative hearing by:
   A.   Contest By Mail: Completing, in full, the "contest by mail" section of
the violation notice, served upon him or her pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Signature: Signing the "contest by mail" in the space specified in the
violation notice, and acknowledging that his or her personal appearance is
waived and submitting to an adjudication based upon the signed statement and
other supporting materials filed by him or her and the facts contained in the
violation notice.
   C.   Filing Materials: Filing by mail with the traffic compliance
administrator postmarked within twenty one (21) days of the violation notice
issuance or within twenty one (21) days of the date of the additional violation
notice, the following materials: the violation notice with the "contest by
mail" section fully completed; the full name, address and telephone number(s)
of the respondent; the make, model and year of the vehicle; any documentary
evidence that rebuts the charge; and a written statement signed by the
respondent setting forth facts relevant to establishing a defense to the
charge.
   D.   Grounds For Review: A person charged with a vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation may contest the charge by mail by
asserting one or more of the grounds, with appropriate evidence to support, set
forth in subsection
 6-8-6D of this chapter.
   E.   Determination Of Liability: Upon review of the materials submitted in
accordance with subsection C of this section, the hearing officer shall make a
determination of liability or nonliability. The hearing officer shall, upon a
determination of liability, assess fines in accordance with section
6-8-11 of this chapter.
   F.   Notice Of Determination: Notice of the determination of the hearing
officer shall be served upon the person contesting a violation notice by mail
by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the person at the address
set forth in the materials submitted in accordance with subsection C of this
section.
   G.   Service Of Notice: Service of the notice of determination shall be
complete on the date the notice is placed in the United States mail.
   H.   Other Provisions Applicable: All other provisions of this chapter shall
apply equally to persons contesting the violation notice by mail. (Ord.
2015.53, 4-18-2016)
6-8-11: SCHEDULE OF FINES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   The violation of any provision of this title, as amended, restricting
or regulating the standing or parking of vehicles or the condition or use of
equipment on a vehicle and the violation of any provision of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes governing the standing or parking of vehicles or the
condition or use of equipment on a vehicle adopted by reference in this title
shall be an offense punishable by a fine in accordance with the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   B.   Failing to pay the indicated fine within twenty one (21) days of the
issuance of the determination of liability and the exhaustion of or the failure
to exhaust any administrative review procedures as set forth in section
6-8-9 of this chapter shall result in the imposition of a late payment penalty
fee in addition to the fine as follows:
      1.   A late payment penalty as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee Schedule shall be imposed in addition to the original fine if the fine is
paid more than twenty one (21) days following the issuance of the determination
of liability but within forty two (42) days following the issuance of the
determination of liability.
      2.   A late payment penalty fee as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule shall be imposed in addition to the original fine if
the fine is paid more than forty two (42) days following the issuance of the
determination of liability but within sixty three (63) days following the
issuance of the determination of liability.
      3.   A late payment penalty fee as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule shall be imposed in addition to the original fine if
the fine is paid more than sixty three (63) days following the issuance of the
determination of liability. (Ord. 2015.53, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
6-8-12: CERTIFIED REPORT; CONTESTING:
Certified reports shall be made to the Illinois secretary of state when a
person fails to pay ten (10) or more vehicular parking regulation violations in
accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   Upon a failure to pay fines and penalties deemed due and owing the city
after the exhaustion of administrative procedures set forth herein for ten (10)
or more vehicular parking regulation violations, the traffic compliance
administrator shall make a certified report to the Illinois secretary of state
stating that the owner of a registered vehicle has failed to pay any fine or
penalty due and owing the city as a result of ten (10) or more violations of
city vehicular standing or parking regulations and thereby cause the suspension
of that person's driver's license.
   B.   The traffic compliance administrator shall take no further action
unless and until the fines and penalties due and owing the city are paid or
upon determination that the inclusion of the person's name on the certified
report was in error. At such time, the traffic compliance administrator shall
submit to the Illinois secretary of state a notification which shall result in
the halting of a driver's license suspension proceedings. The person named
therein shall receive a certified copy of such notification upon request and at
no charge.
   C.   Persons may challenge the accuracy of the certified report by
completing a form provided by the traffic compliance administrator. The form
shall specify the grounds on which such challenge is based. Grounds for
challenge shall be limited to the following:
      1.   The person was neither the owner nor the lessee of the vehicle
receiving ten (10) or more violation notices on the date or dates such notices
were issued; or
      2.   The person has paid the fine and any penalties for the ten (10) or
more violations indicated on the certified report.
   D.   The traffic compliance administrator shall render a determination
within fourteen (14) business days of receipt of the objection form and shall
notify the objector of the determination. (Ord. 2015.53, 4-18-2016)
6-8-13: IMMOBILIZATION, TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT:
The immobilization, towing and impoundment of motor vehicles shall be conducted
in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   Any motor vehicle whose registered owner has been determined to be
liable for three (3) or more vehicular standing, parking, or compliance
regulation violations, for which the fines or penalties assessed remain unpaid,
may be immobilized or towed and impounded by a towing contractor designated by
the city if:
      1.   The traffic compliance administrator has determined that a person
has been determined to be liable for three (3) or more vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violations, the fines or penalties for which
remain unpaid.
      2.   The person determined to be liable for three (3) or more violations
is the registered owner of a motor vehicle located within the city's
jurisdiction.
      3.   A pretowing notice has been sent to the registered owner of the
motor vehicle which contains, but shall not be limited to, the following:
         a.   A final determination has been made on three (3) or more
vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violations, the fines and
penalties for which remain unpaid.
         b.   A listing of the violations for which the person has been
determined to be liable, which shall include for each violation:
            (1)   The name and address of the registered owner.
            (2)   The state registration number of the vehicle or vehicles
registered to the owner.
            (3)   The vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violation notice number.
            (4)   The date of issuance of the violation notices.
            (5)   The total amount of fines and penalties assessed.
         c.   The motor vehicle owned by the person and located within the city
is subject to immobilization or towing and impoundment if the fines and
penalties are not paid within fourteen (14) days of the date of the notice. The
request for hearing shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the traffic
compliance administrator.
      4.   The motor vehicles of the registered owner to whom notice is sent
has failed to make payment of the fines or penalties as specified in the notice
and no timely request for hearing has been filed with the traffic compliance
administrator to contest the validity of the notice.
   B.   Upon the receipt of the request for hearing to contest the validity of
the notice of impending immobilization or towing and impoundment, the traffic
compliance administrator shall schedule an administrative hearing to contest
the validity of said notice by disproving liability for the unpaid final
determinations of parking, standing, or compliance violation liability listed
on the notice, on the next available hearing date, but in no case shall the
hearing be scheduled later than sixty (60) days after the request for hearing
is filed.
      1.   The registered owner may contest the validity of the notice by fully
completing and signing the request for hearing portion of one notice and by
filing the request for hearing with the traffic compliance administrator
within, but not later than fourteen (14) days of the date of the notice.
Grounds for review shall be limited to documentary evidence which would
conclusively disprove liability upon one or both of the following grounds:
         a.   All fines and penalties for the violations cited in the notice
have been paid in full.
         b.   The registered owner has not accumulated three (3) or more final
determinations of parking or compliance violation liability which were unpaid
at the time the notice of impending vehicle immobilization was issued.
      2.   The traffic compliance administrator shall serve notice of the
hearing date upon the registered owner.
      3.   Notice shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the
address as is set forth on the request for hearing.
      4.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date it is placed in
the United States mail.
      5.   The hearing officer shall render a determination of the objector's
claim at the scheduled hearing date.
   C.   Upon immobilization of an eligible vehicle, a notice shall be affixed
to the vehicle in a conspicuous place. Such notice shall warn that the vehicle
is immobilized and that any attempt to move the vehicle may result in its
damage. The notice shall also state that the unauthorized removal of or damage
to the immobilizing restraint is a violation of sections 16-1 and 21-1 of the
Illinois criminal code, as amended. The notice shall provide information
specifying how release of the immobilizing restraint may be had, and how the
registered owner may obtain an immobilization hearing. If the restraint has not
been released within forty eight (48) hours of its placement, the restraint
shall be released and the vehicle towed and impounded.
   D.   The owner of an immobilized vehicle or other authorized person may
secure the release of the vehicle by paying the immobilization, towing and
storage fees provided in subsection I of this section, and all fines and
penalties remaining due on each final determination for liability issued to
such person.
   E.   The traffic compliance administrator shall serve a posttowing notice
upon the registered owner of a vehicle immobilized or towed and impounded under
this section which notice shall contain, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      1.   The date of immobilization or towing and date of impoundment.
      2.   The location of vehicle.
      3.   A statement that the vehicle was immobilized under this section for
nonpayment of fines or penalties assessed for the violation of three (3) or
more violations of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulations for
which the registered owner has been determined liable and notified of impending
immobilization or towing and impoundment.
      4.   The date of notice of immobilization or towing and impoundment.
      5.   A statement that the registered owner may contest the validity of
the immobilization or towing and impoundment by completing and signing the
request for hearing portion of the notice and filing the request for hearing
with the traffic compliance administrator within, but not later than, fourteen
(14) days of the date of the notice. The notice shall be deemed filed upon
receipt by the traffic compliance administrator.
   F.   The registered owner of a vehicle immobilized or towed and impounded
under this section shall have the right to a prompt administrative hearing
without the requirement of payment of outstanding fines and penalties for which
final determination has been made.
   G.   Upon the receipt of a timely request for hearing to contest the
validity of the immobilization or towing and impoundment, the traffic
compliance administrator shall schedule an administrative hearing to contest
the validity of the immobilization or towing and impoundment on the next
available hearing date or if sooner scheduled by the traffic compliance
administrator for good cause shown. The traffic compliance administrator shall
serve notice of the hearing date upon the registered owner. Notice shall be
sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address as is set forth on
the request for hearing. Service of the notice shall be complete on the date it
is placed in the United States mail.
      1.   The grounds for review by which the registered owner may contest the
validity of the immobilization or impoundment shall be limited to documentary
evidence which would conclusively establish that the immobilization or
impoundment was erroneous based upon one or both of the following grounds:
         a.   All fines and penalties for the violations cited in the notices
upon which the immobilization or impoundment was based have been paid in full
prior to the immobilization or impoundment.
         b.   The registered owner has not accumulated three (3) or more final
determinations of parking or compliance violation liability which were unpaid
at the time of the immobilization or impoundment.
      2.   An order entered after the hearing to contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment is a final administrative decision
within the meaning of the Illinois administrative review law, as amended and
incorporated herein by reference.
   H.   Within ten (10) days after a vehicle has been impounded, a notice of
impoundment shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
address of the registered owner as listed with the Illinois secretary of state.
The notice shall state that the owner has the right to request a
postimmobilization hearing as provided in subsection G of this section, and
that if the vehicle is not claimed within thirty (30) days from the date of the
notice, the vehicle may be sold or otherwise disposed of in accordance with
section 4-208 of the Illinois vehicle code, as amended.
   I .   The fee for immobilization or towing and impoundment shall be as set
by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   J.   It shall be unlawful to relocate or tow any vehicle restrained by an
immobilization device without the written approval of the city traffic
compliance administrator. The registered owner of the immobilized vehicle and
any person who relocates an immobilized vehicle in violation of this subsection
shall be subject to a penalty as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule for such violation. (Ord. 2015.53, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
6-8-14: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Judicial review of final determinations of vehicular standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violations and final administrative decisions issued
after hearings regarding vehicle immobilization or towing and impoundment made
under this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of the administrative
review law as set forth in 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq., as
amended and incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 2015.53, 4-18-2016)
6-8-15: DEBT TO CITY:
Any fine, penalty or part of any fine or any penalty assessed in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or
the failure to exhaust administrative remedies created under this chapter, and
the conclusion of any judicial review procedures, shall be a debt due and owing
the city and, as such, may be collected in accordance with the applicable law.
Any fees or costs incurred by the city with respect to attorneys or private
collection agents retained by the city for the collection of debts pursuant to
this chapter shall be charged to the offender per 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/1-2-1. The citation shall be submitted to a licensed collection agency for
further collection efforts including placement of the fine on the responsible
person's credit report and submission of the fine to the local debt recovery
program. Payment in full of any fine or penalty resulting from a standing,
parking, or compliance violation shall constitute a final disposition of that
violation. (Ord. 2015.53, 4-18-2016)
6-8-16: JUDGMENT:
The traffic compliance administrator shall, following the expiration of the
period within which administrative or judicial review may be sought for a final
determination of violation, take all necessary actions, execute all required
documents and subject to the advice and consent of the corporation counsel,
appoint or retain any individual or agency deemed appropriate to obtain a
judgment against and collect monies from the persons who have been assessed
fines or penalties which remain unpaid and have become a debt due and owing the
city in accordance with this chapter and section 11-208.3 of the Illinois
vehicle code, as amended, by:
   A.   Filing a complaint in the circuit court praying for the entry of a
judgment against the person for whom a final determination of standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation liability has been made.
   B.   The complaint filed by the traffic compliance administrator or
individual or agency on behalf of the city seeking entry of a judgment against
an individual for unpaid fines and/or penalties pursuant to a final
determination of standing, parking, or compliance regulation violations shall
have appended:
      1.   A certified copy of the final determination of the standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violations.
      2.   A certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the final
determination of standing, parking, or compliance regulation violations was
issued in accordance with this chapter and section 11-208.3 of the Illinois
vehicle code, as amended.
   C.   Nothing shall prevent the city from consolidating multiple final
determinations of standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation
liability in an action in the circuit court against an individual.
   D.   Pursuing all available remedies, allowed by law, to collect money
judgments.
   E.   Service of summons and a copy of the complaint may be served upon the
person against whom a judgment is sought under the provisions of this chapter
by any method provided under section 2-203 of the Illinois code of civil
procedure, as amended, incorporated by reference, or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, provided the total amount of fines and penalties for final
determination of standing, parking, or compliance regulation violations does
not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   F.   A default in the payment of a fine or penalty or any installment of a
fine or penalty may be collected by any means authorized for the collection of
monetary judgments. The municipal attorney of the municipality in which the
fine or penalty was imposed may retain attorneys and private collection agents
for the purpose of collecting any default in payment of any fine or penalty or
installment of that fine or penalty. Any fees or costs incurred by the
municipality with respect to attorneys or private collection agents retained by
the municipal attorney under this section shall be charged to the offender.
(Ord. 2015.53, 4-18-2016)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS, GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Permit Requirements
7-1-2: Liability Insurance Requirements
7-1-3: Injury To Public Ways
7-1-4: Maintenance
7-1-5: Defects
7-1-6: Obstructions
7-1-7: Barricades
7-1-8: Private Use Of Public Ways
7-1-9: Encroachments
7-1-10: Harmful Deposits; Litter
7-1-11: Drains
7-1-12: Poles And Wires
7-1-13: Gas Pumps
7-1-14: Driveway Construction
7-1-15: Snow Removal
7-1-16: Street Lighting
7-1-17: Supervision And Enforcement
7-1-18: Sidewalk Cafes
7-1-19: Penalties
7-1-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to construct or repair any public street, alley or
sidewalk without first having secured a permit therefor. Applications for such
permits shall be made to the clerk and shall state the location of the intended
construction or repair, the extent thereof and the person who is to do the
actual work. The construction or repair of streets, alleys and sidewalks shall
conform to the requirements of this chapter. (1988 Code §24.102)
7-1-2: LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Any person performing work under this title shall take out and maintain during
the construction or repair of the project such liability and property damage
insurance as shall protect him, the city and the city's representatives from
claims from liability and property damages which may arise from said
construction or repair. The city shall be furnished certificates of insurance
issued by the companies carrying the risk, which said certificates shall be in
form and substance satisfactory to and approved by the city. (1988 Code
§24.103)
7-1-3: INJURY TO PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   New Construction: It shall be unlawful to go upon or drive any vehicle
or animal upon or knowingly injure any newly constructed street, alley or
sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade.
(1988 Code §24.104)
   B.   Existing Construction: It shall be unlawful to injure any sidewalk,
street or alley pavement. (1988 Code §24.112)
7-1-4: MAINTENANCE:
   A.   All right-of-ways, streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be kept in good
repair. Such repair work, whether performed by the City or by the abutting
owner, shall be under the supervision of the City Engineer. Sidewalks shall be
maintained in accordance with sections
7-1-15 and
7-2-11.
   B.   Within all parts of the City, individual abutting property owners are
responsible for mowing and grounds maintenance of all areas between their
property lines and the edge of the street. These areas include from the edge of
the street pavement or from the back of the street curb to the street right of
way or the front, corner side, side or rear property line, as applicable. The
individual abutting property owner shall also mow and otherwise perform grounds
maintenance upon any utility easement or green space that lies between the edge
of the street pavement or the back of the street curb and the front, corner
side, side or rear property line, as applicable.
   C.   All traffic islands or median islands located within subdivisions shall
be mowed and maintained by the homeowners' association of the subdivision in
which they are located. (1988 Code § 24.105; amd. Ord. 2023.16, 10-2-2023)
7-1-5: DEFECTS:
It shall be the duty of every city officer or employee becoming cognizant of
any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof, to
report the same to the engineer as soon as possible. (1988 Code §24.106)
7-1-6: OBSTRUCTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create or maintain any
obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way, except as may
be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the engineer when necessary in an
emergency or in connection with any lawful construction, repair or removal
work. (1988 Code §24.107)
7-1-7: BARRICADES 1 :
   A.   Barricades Required: Any person constructing or repairing any public
street, alley or sidewalk or doing other work in a public place or making any
excavation in any such place, shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent
injury to any person or vehicle by reason of the work. Such barricades shall be
protected with flashing lights at nighttime. (1988 Code §24.108)
   B.   Disturbing Barricades: It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere
with any barricade or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any new
pavement, excavation or opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk. (1988
Code §24.109)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-3-4 of this title.
7-1-8: PRIVATE USE OF PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Signs Or Advertisements 2 : Except as otherwise ordained in this
section or other sections of this code, it shall be unlawful for any person to
use any street, sidewalk, or other public place as space for the display of
goods or merchandise for sale or to write or mark signs or advertisements on
any such pavements. (Ord. 2001.24, 7-16-2001)
   B.   Neighborhood Block Parties: Upon the review of all city departments and
the recommendation of the city manager, the mayor may issue a block party
permit under the following conditions: (Ord. 2001.24, 7-16-2001; amd. Ord.
2002.95, 4-21-2003)
      1.   The purpose of the block party shall be for the benefit of all
persons whose property abuts the section of street to be closed, and not just
the private benefit of a specific property owner (as for birthday parties,
anniversaries, etc.);
      2.   The section of street to be closed may extend only one block (i.e.,
from cross street to cross street);
      3.   The event shall last only one day;
      4.   The event may not begin before ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and must end
before ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.;
      5.   The organizer(s) of the event must notify in writing all property
owners whose parcels abut the street in question and if a majority of the
neighboring property owners do not consent in writing to the event, no permit
will be issued;
      6.   The organizer(s) of the event shall be responsible for placing and
removing barricades to close the street properly according to the procedures
established by the public works superintendent; and
      7.   No more than two (2) street closings shall be permitted for any
particular day. (Ord. 2001.24, 7-16-2001)
 
Notes
2 2. See also section
  7-5-4 of this title.
7-1-9: ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Definitions:
   ENCROACHMENT: Any building, fence, sign, (excluding certain signs located
over sidewalks or any other structure or object of any kind with the exception
of utilities and public road signs), which is placed, located or maintained in,
on, under or over any portion of the project right of way or the roadway right
of way where no project right of way line has been established.
   ROAD RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by fee
simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect.
   B.   Public Street Or Property: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain
any building or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property.
   C.   Roadway Right Of Way: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect or cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained,
an encroachment, within the limits of the roadway right of way.
   D.   Severability: This section is intended to and shall be in addition to
all other ordinances, rules and regulations concerning encroachments and shall
not be construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part of any
ordinance unless in direct conflict therewith.
   E.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall
be fined as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during which
a violation continues or exists. (Ord. 99.11, 5-17-1999; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-
1-2023)
7-1-10: HARMFUL DEPOSITS; LITTER 1 :
   A.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street, alley or sidewalk any
material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof or any waste material or
any glass or other articles which may do injury to any person, animal or
property.
   B.   Certain materials may be deposited on streets, alleys and sidewalks
preparatory to delivery or use, only with approval of the city council.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to pave any area lying within a
parkway or to place gravel, decorative stone, lava rock, paving brick, prairie
grasses, or wildflowers in the parkway. Bedding plants shall be permitted in
parkway areas if they are planted around mailboxes (in compliance with postal
service regulations), streetlight poles, street sign poles, or approved trees
in the parkway, provided they are maintained free of weeds and debris and do
not obstruct traffic or the vision of motorists. Neither the city nor private
utilities maintaining infrastructure within the parkways shall be responsible
for damage to, or restoration of, plantings other than natural turf after
construction or repair work within the parkway, even if such materials were
lawfully installed. (Ord. 2006.40, 10-16-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  4-2-8 of this code for littering provisions.
7-1-11: DRAINS:
It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or alley. (1988
Code §24.113)
7-1-12: POLES AND WIRES:
It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or to maintain any poles or
wires over any public street, alley or other public way without having first
secured a permit from the city. (1988 Code §24.115)
7-1-13: GAS PUMPS:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline pump or tank in any
public street, alley or sidewalk. (1988 Code §24.116)
7-1-14: DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Grade Surface: No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to
leave a step, sharp depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade
shall be as nearly as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk. It
shall be unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway where the same
crosses the sidewalk constructed of such materials as to render it slippery and
hazardous to pedestrians. (1988 Code §24.201)
   B.   Materials: Driveways across sidewalks shall be concrete and shall be
constructed to conform to the requirements of this title. (1988 Code §24.202)
   C.   Repair: It shall be the duty of the person maintaining a driveway to
keep the same in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free from
obstruction and openings. (1988 Code §24.203)
7-1-15: SNOW REMOVAL:
   A.   All areas except the Downtown Commercial District: The owner or
occupant of the premises is responsible for keeping the sidewalks abutting the
premises free from snow and other obstructions. Snow or ice removed shall not
be piled or placed upon any public street. Snow must be removed within twenty-
four (24) hours of the end of each snow event.
   B.   Downtown Commercial District: The owner or occupant of the premises in
the Downtown Commercial Zoning District bounded by the north side of Exchange
Street, the south side of Elm Street, the east side of Locust Street and the
west side of Sacramento Street is responsible for keeping the sidewalks
abutting the premises free from snow and other obstructions. All snow or ice
removed shall be placed in the street or hauled away. No snow or ice shall be
piled or placed on any shrubs or trees. The use of any chemical on the sidewalk
that may damage adjacent shrubs or trees is prohibited. Snow must be removed
within 24 hours of the end of each snow event.
   C.   Obstruction Of Vision: It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant
of property to deposit or to have or cause another person to deposit snow for
said owner or occupant, either on public or private property, in such a manner
as to obstruct the vision of motor vehicles along streets or at intersections
within the City.
   D.   Abatement: Should the owner or occupant of the said premises fail to
keep the sidewalks abutting the premises free from snow and ice in accordance
with the provisions herein, the City may abate the nuisance in accordance with
chapter 4-3-2 of this code.
   E.   Penalties: Violators of this section shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2007.47, 1-7-2008; amd. Ord. 2023.16, 10-2-2023)
7-1-16: STREET LIGHTING:
   A.   Subdivision Street Lighting: In new subdivisions, adequate street
lighting shall be provided at all intersections and at intermediate intervals
not exceeding three hundred fifty feet (350'). The developer shall be
responsible for furnishing and installing all street lighting facilities,
including, but not limited to, poles, underground or overhead cables, trenching
and backfilling for a completely workable system 1 . As an alternate to the
developer furnishing and installing the street lighting facilities, the
developer shall cause the utility company providing such service to furnish and
install said facilities with the developer reimbursing said company for this
work. No approval of a final plat of subdivision will be made until the
foregoing improvements as required by the plan commission are made or until the
plan commission has been provided proper guarantee of performance. (Ord. 98.80,
4-5-1999)
   B.   Alternative Street Lighting: Upon the approval of the city manager or
designee, light poles other than the treated wood poles and appurtenances
typically used in the city may be installed at the developer's expense. Such
fixtures shall provide the minimum illumination specified by the city engineer
at all intersections and at intermediate intervals. Further, such poles and
appurtenances shall conform to the alternative models specified by Commonwealth
Edison or any other electric utility company providing such service. If the
operation, maintenance, and replacement costs of such streetlights create an
expense in excess of the average cost of the city's standard lighting, the city
council shall establish an operational special service area to finance any
extraordinary maintenance costs. Prior to the approval of any alternate system
of lighting, a joint developer/city agreement shall be approved by the city
council. (Ord. 98.80, 4-5-1999; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title for excavation regulations.
7-1-17: SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways in the city shall
be under the supervision of the city engineer. He shall be charged with the
enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to such public places (except
traffic ordinances 1 ) and is hereby authorized to enforce such ordinances.
(1988 Code §24.101)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6 of this code.
7-1-18: SIDEWALK CAFES:
   A.   Purpose: These standards and procedures are adopted pursuant to this
chapter to encourage appropriate outdoor activities in the public right of way
to ensure that the space used for outdoor dining in the public sidewalk will
serve a public purpose, to ease the process of obtaining permission to operate
an outdoor dining facility, and to ensure adequate space for pedestrians on the
sidewalk adjacent to sidewalk cafes.
   B.   Definitions:
   SIDEWALK CAFE: An outdoor dining area on a public sidewalk where patrons may
consume food and/or beverages provided by an abutting food service
establishment. Such establishments may either provide table service in the
outdoor dining areas or sell takeout items to be consumed in the outdoor dining
area. These regulations do not apply to outdoor dining on private property.
   C.   General Provisions:
      1.   Permit Required: Outdoor dining on a public sidewalk may occur only
pursuant to a sidewalk cafe permit (issued to a particular business owner).
      2.   Prohibited Locations: Outside dining will not be permitted on
sidewalks designated by the city council as shared bicycle and pedestrian
facilities.
      3.   Permit Transfer: A sidewalk cafe permit is not transferable.
      4.   Zoning Requirements: Outdoor dining on a public sidewalk shall be
subject to the requirements and limitations set forth in this code and all
applicable federal, state and county statutes, ordinances and regulations.
      5.   Conditions Of Approval: The city manager shall have the authority to
apply conditions to the approval of sidewalk cafe permits as appropriate to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this policy.
      6.   Authority Of The City Manager; Appeal: The location and
configuration of any sidewalk cafe shall be subject to approval by the city
manager who shall consider reviews by the city engineer, police chief and
building and zoning officer regarding public safety issues unique to the
pedestrian and vehicular needs of the specific location. Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this policy, the manager shall have the authority to deny
any permit application or revoke any existing permit if it is determined to be
detrimental to public health, safety or general welfare. The decision of the
city manager may be appealed to the city board of zoning appeals and the city
council by the applicant. The decision of the city council shall be final.
      7.   Indemnification: The permittee shall defend, indemnify, and hold the
city, and its employees harmless from and against any loss or damage arising
from the use or existence of the improvements or encroachment authorized under
a sidewalk cafe permit.
      8.   Insurance: The permittee shall obtain and maintain in force
comprehensive general liability, broad form property damage and blanket
contractual liability insurance in a combined single limit amount, per claim
and aggregate of at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) covering the
permittee's operations on the sidewalk. Such insurance shall name, on a special
endorsement form, the city, its elected and appointed boards, officers, agents
and employees as additional insiders. A certificate of insurance shall contain
provisions that prohibit cancellations, modifications, or lapse without thirty
(30) days' prior written notice to the city.
   D.   Application Procedure:
      1.   A permit shall be required for all encroaching furniture and
improvements. The application shall be filed with the city manager on a form
provided by the city. The application shall be signed by the owner of the
property, or his authorized agent. Authorized agents shall submit written
authorization. The application shall be accompanied by a site plan, drawn to
scale and fully dimensioned, which accurately depicts the location, height,
nature and extent of all proposed improvements and objects within the
encroachment. All fixed features such as tree wells, signposts, parking meters,
fire hydrants, newsracks, etc., within twenty feet (20') of the encroachment
shall be depicted on the site plan.
      2.   Prior to issuance of the permit the applicant shall provide both the
certificate of insurance and the completed standard special endorsement in a
form meeting the approval of the city manager and the city attorney.
   E.   Term: Valid permits shall remain in effect for a term as set by the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   F.   Sidewalk Cafe Development Standards:
      1.   Horizontal Clearance: A clear, continuous pedestrian path no less
than five feet (5') in width shall be required for pedestrian circulation
outside of the outdoor dining area, provided that the city manager may require
more than five feet (5') if necessary, to protect the public safety. Areas with
heavy pedestrian traffic may be required to maintain a wider path. As used
herein, pedestrian path means a continuous obstruction free sidewalk area,
paved to city standards between the outside boundary of the dining area and any
obstruction, including, but not limited to, parking meters, street trees,
landscaping, streetlights, bus benches, public art and curb lines. These
requirements may be modified at the discretion of the city manager in locations
where unusual circumstances exist and where public safety would not be
jeopardized.
      2.   Allowable Uses: An outdoor dining area may incorporate street trees
or street furniture, provided that the required pedestrian path is maintained
outside of the outdoor dining area.
      3.   Setbacks From Corners, Streets And Alleys: When an outdoor dining
area is located at a street corner a ten foot (10') setback from the corner of
the building shall be maintained along both frontages. When an outdoor dining
area is located adjacent to a driveway or an alley, it may be modified at the
discretion of the city manager in locations where unusual circumstances exist
and where public safety would not be jeopardized (e.g., the sidewalk adjacent
to the proposed outdoor dining areas is wider than usual or the perimeter of
the building has an unusual configuration).
      4.   Extension To Adjacent Properties: Subject to approval of the city
manager an outdoor dining area may extend onto the sidewalk in front of an
adjacent business with the written consent of the adjacent business owner and
property owner.
      5.   Alcoholic Beverages: Alcoholic beverages shall not be consumed at
sidewalk cafes.
   G.   Design Standards:
      1.   Barriers:
         a.   No barrier shall be required if the applicant proposes to limit
the outdoor dining area to one row of tables and chairs abutting the wall of
the establishment.
         b.   Barriers should complement the building facade as well as any
street furniture and be somewhat transparent (such as wrought iron) and shall
be able to withstand inclement weather.
         c.   Barriers and furniture shall be removed a the end of each
business day unless otherwise approved by the city manager. Barriers shall be
capable of being removed through the use of recessed sleeves and posts, by
wheels that can be locked into place, or weighted bases. The height of any
barrier shall not exceed three feet six inches (3'6").
      2.   Awnings And Umbrellas: The use of awnings over the outdoor dining
area and removable table umbrellas may be permitted provided they do not
interfere with street trees. No portion of an awning shall be less than eight
feet (8') above the sidewalk and no portion of an umbrella shall be less than
seven feet (7') above the sidewalk. Awnings may extend up to five feet (5')
from the building front or cover up to fifty percent (50%) of the outdoor
dining area, whichever is less. Awnings shall have no support posts located
within the public right of way. A building permit must be obtained prior to
installation of any awning.
      3.   Lighting: Outdoor lighting fixtures should complement the style of
the building. Lighting fixtures shall not be glaring to motorists or
pedestrians on the adjacent right of way, and shall illuminate only the outdoor
dining area. Outdoor lighting may be installed on the facade of the building.
Electrical fixtures shall not be permitted in the public right of way. Lighting
shall be installed by a licensed electrician under an electrical permit from
the building department. Battery operated lamps or candles will be permitted.
      4.   Design: The design, material, and colors used for chairs, tables,
umbrellas, awnings and other fixtures should complement the architectural style
and colors of the building facade and street furniture.
      5.   Signs: Notwithstanding any provisions in this code, signs and logos
shall be permitted on umbrellas in outdoor dining areas.
   H.   Fees:
      1.   Application Fee: An application fee as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule shall be paid at the time a sidewalk cafe permit
application is submitted to the city manager.
      2.   Annual Use Fee: An application fee as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule shall be paid upon annual renewal of a sidewalk cafe
permit.
   I.   Violation; Remedy: In addition to any other penalty or legal remedy at
law or in equity, in the event that a permittee fails to abide by the
provisions of a permit, the city manager may summarily abate any encroachment
or improvement that is in violation of this policy. Applicable fees are
provided for in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. The permittee
or property owner shall pay all costs incurred by the city in abating the
encroachment or improvement. The permittee or property owner may appeal the
decision of the city manager to the city zoning board of appeals and city
council. The determination of the city council with respect to abatement shall
be a final city decision. (Ord. 99.31, 8-2-1999; amd. Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003;
Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
7-1-19: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provision of this title
shall be subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee Schedule. (1988 Code § 24.117; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 99.31, 8-2-1999; Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 2
STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
SECTION:
7-2-1: Improvements Required
7-2-2: Permit Required; Application and Fee
7-2-3: Guarantee
7-2-4: Design and Construction Standards
7-2-5: Handicapped Ramps
7-2-6: Backfilling
7-2-7: Compaction Tests
7-2-8: Widening Streets
7-2-9: Approval
7-2-10: Replacement or Extension of Existing Sidewalks
7-2-11: Dangerous Sidewalks
7-2-12: Penalties
7-2-1: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
A properly designed street system complete with curb and gutter and sidewalks
on both sides shall be provided at the expense of the owner or developer of a
subdivision to serve each lot within said subdivision. All streets, curb and
gutter and sidewalks shall extend across the entire width of the lot to be
served and, in the case of a corner lot, said improvements shall also be
provided along the side of the lot. (1988 Code §24.401)
7-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND FEE:
   A.   Application for Permit: No person shall connect to or extend any street
or sidewalk in the City without first submitting an application for a permit to
the City Engineer.
   B.   Plans and Specifications: The application forms for a permit shall be
accompanied by three (3) sets of plans and specifications for review, prepared
by a registered professional engineer of Illinois. When said plans and
specifications are approved and a permit has been issued, the applicant shall
furnish the City with an additional three (3) sets of plans and specifications.
   C.   Plan Review Fee: Charges for the review of plans and specifications for
street or sidewalk construction shall be as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   D.   Notice of Construction: The City shall be given an advance notice of
forty eight (48) hours before any construction begins. (1988 Code §§ 24.402 and
24.403; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
7-2-3: GUARANTEE:
   A.   Guarantee Requirements: The owner shall provide the City with a
certified check or cashier's check, letter of credit or a surety bond, payable
to the City in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the
improvement, as estimated by the owner, and approved by the City Engineer to
assure the satisfactory installation of said improvements as outlined and
contained in the approved plans and specifications. If the owner posts a surety
bond, it shall have good and sufficient surety therein and be approved by the
City Attorney. Until official acceptance of the work, the owner shall be
responsible for all maintenance of all required improvements. (1988 Code
§24.404)
   B.   Release or Guarantee: The owner's certified check or cashier's check,
letter of credit or surety bond shall be released only upon the completion of
the following:
      1.   The satisfactory installation of all street and sidewalk
improvements.
      2.   The submission of four (4) sets of approved "as-built" plans for all
street and sidewalk improvements, including one mylar copy.
      3.   The submission of final waiver of liens for all materials and labor
necessary for the installation of all street and sidewalk improvements.
      4.   Final acceptance by the City Council. (1988 Code §24.411)
7-2-4: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Manuals and Specifications: The design and construction of streets and
sidewalks within the jurisdiction of the City shall conform to the most
restrictive of the requirements contained in latest edition of the following
regulations, manuals, standards and specifications, three (3) copies of each of
which shall be on file in the City Clerk's office.
      1.   City's "Standard Details for Street and Sidewalk Construction".
      2.   "Manual of Policies and Procedures", Illinois Department of
Transportation.
      3.   "Design Manual", State of Illinois, Department of Public Works and
Buildings, Division of Highways, Bureau of Design.
      4.   "Highway Standards", State of Illinois, Department of Public Works
and Buildings, Division of Highways, Bureau of Design.
      5.   "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", Illinois Department of
Transportation.
      6.   "Standard Specifications For Road and Bridge Construction", Illinois
Department of Transportation.
   B.   Table I: In addition to the above regulations, manuals, standards and
specifications, the following Table I (Minimum Street Standards) shall be used
in the design of streets. For the use of this Table, the various street
classifications are defined as follows:
      1.   Collector Street: A street of considerable continuity which carries
traffic from minor streets to secondary or primary streets, in eluding the
principal entrance streets of residential developments and the principal
circulating streets within such a development.
      2.   Minor Street: A street of limited continuity, used primarily for
access to abutting properties and the local needs of the neighborhood.
      3.   Primary Street: A street that will provide for heavy traffic of
considerable continuity that is, or that will be, used as a connection between
various districts of the City and adjoining communities.
      4.   Secondary Street: A street which carries traffic from such
facilities as schools, churches, shopping areas and employment centers to high
population densities and to primary streets.
   TABLE I MINIMUM STREET STANDARDS
               Minimum Minimum Street
Street         R.O.W.  Width (Ft.)      Minimum* Structural Minimum Pavement
Classification (Ft.)   Measured Back to No. (Dt)            Construction**
                       Back of Curb
                 Minimum          Minimum Street   Minimum*
Street           R.O.W.           Width (Ft.)      Structural Minimum Pavement
Classification   (Ft.)            Measured Back to No. (Dt)   Construction**
                                  Back of Curb
   RESIDENTIAL
                                                              10" compacted
                                                              crushed limestone
                                                              base consisting
                                                              of 6" of crusher
                                                              run and 4" of CA-
Minor            66               35               2.30       6 crushed
                                                              limestone plus
                                                              21/2" bituminous
                                                              concrete surface
                                                              course, Class I
                                                              installed in two
                                                              lifts.
                                                              10" compacted
                                                              crushed limestone
                                                              base consisting
                                                              of 6" of crusher
                 Same as for      Same as for                 run and 4" of CA-
Cul-de-sac       Minor but with   Minor but with   2.30       6 crushed
                 131 ft. diameter 100 ft. diameter            limestone plus
                 at end.          at end.                     21/2" bituminous
                                                              concrete surface
                                                              course, Class I
                                                              installed in two
                                                              lifts.
                                                              12" compacted
                                                              crushed limestone
                                                              base consisting
                                                              of 8" of crusher
                                                              run and 4" of CA-
Collector        66               35               2.75       6 crushed
                                                              limestone plus 3"
                                                              bituminous
                                                              concrete surface
                                                              course, Class I
                                                              installed in two
                                                              lifts.
COMMERCIAL
                                                              12" compacted
                                                              crushed limestone
                                                              base consisting
                                                              of 8" of crusher
                                                              run and 4" of CA-
Minor            66               35               3.10       6 crushed
                                                              limestone plus 4"
                                                              bituminous
                                                              concrete surface
                                                              course, Class I
                                                              installed in
                                                              three lifts.
                                                              14" compacted
                                                              crushed limestone
                                                              base consisting
                                                              of 8" of crusher
                                                              run and 6" of CA-
Collector        66               35               3.40       6 crushed
                                                              limestone plus 4"
                                                              bituminous
                                                              concrete surface
                                                              course, Class I
                                                              installed in
                                                              three lifts.
                                                              12" compacted
                                                              crushed limestone
                                                              base consisting
MINOR STREETS                                                 of 8" of crusher
PROVIDING ACCESS                                              run and 4" of CA-
TO CHURCHES,     66               35               3.10       6 crushed
SCHOOLS,                                                      limestone plus 4"
HOSPITALS, ETC.                                               bituminous
                                                              concrete surface
                                                              course, Class I
                                                              installed in
                                                              three lifts.
INDUSTRIAL
                                                              14" compacted
                                                              crushed limestone
                                                              base consisting
                                                              of 8" of crusher
                                                              run and 6" of CA-
Minor            66               35               3.40       6 crushed
                                                              limestone plus 4"
                                                              bituminous
                                                              concrete surface
                                                              course, Class I
                                                              installed in
                                                              three lifts.
                                                              12 oz. non-woven
                                                              geotechnical
                                                              fabric, 18"
                                                              compacted crushed
                                                              limestone base
                                                              consisting of 10"
                                                              of crusher run
Collector        66               35               3.80       and 8" of CA-
                                                              6 crushed
                                                              limestone plus 4"
                                                              bituminous
                                                              concrete surface
                                                              course, Class I
                                                              installed in
                                                              three lifts.
                                                              12 oz. non-woven
                                                              geotechnical
                                                              fabric, 18"
                                                              compacted crushed
                                                              limestone base
                                                              consisting of 10"
                                                              of crusher run
SECONDARY        80               49               3.80       and 8" of CA-
                                                              6 crushed
                                                              limestone plus 4"
                                                              bituminous
                                                              concrete surface
                                                              course, Class I
                                                              installed in
                                                              three lifts
                                                              12 oz. non-woven
                                                              geotechnical
                                                              fabric, 8"
                                                              compacted CA-
                                                              6 crushed
                                                              limestone
PRIMARY          100              55               4.50       subbase, 8"
                                                              bituminous base
                                                              course plus 3"
                                                              bituminous
                                                              concrete surface
                                                              course, Class I
                                                              installed in two
                                                              lifts.
 
* As defined in section 7-200.06 of the "Design Manual", State of Illinois,
Department of Public Works and Buildings, Division of Highways, Bureau of
Design.
** Various combinations of pavement types and thicknesses that produce the
required structural number may be used if approved by the City Engineer.
Properly designed Portland cement concrete pavement may be used if approved by
the City Engineer.
(1988 Code §24.405; 1994 Code)
7-2-5: HANDICAPPED RAMPS:
   A.   Sidewalk ramps for the handicapped shall be provided at all street
intersections and at designated crosswalks. The sidewalk ramps shall meet the
requirements outlined in the "highway standards", state department of public
works and buildings, division of highways, bureau of design. (1988 Code
§24.406)
   B.   Where sidewalks are constructed or replaced at street intersections and
other crosswalks adjacent to barrier, mountable or roll type curb, a sidewalk
ramp for the handicapped shall be provided in accordance with the requirements
outlined in the "highway standards", state department of public works and
buildings, division of highways, bureau of design. Where the replacement of
existing public sidewalk or the installation of new public sidewalk that is
eligible for city reimbursement requires an alteration of the curb to
accommodate the handicapped ramp, a fee as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 92.48, 11-30-1992; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
7-2-6: BACKFILLING 1 :
The backfill material for trenches and excavations located within the limits of
the subgrade of the proposed pavement or sidewalk and within two feet (2') of
the edge of the proposed pavement, curb and gutter, stabilized shoulder or
sidewalk shall be select granular material, properly compacted. In the event a
select granular backfill material is not provided, then sidewalk and final
surface construction for the pavement will not be permitted until all of the
trenches and excavations have been permitted to settle for two (2) complete
winter seasons (November 1 through April 1). All areas of the subgrade or
subbase which have settled, cracked or otherwise deteriorated shall be properly
repaired. (1988 Code §24.407)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title for excavation provisions.
7-2-7: COMPACTION TESTS:
When compaction tests are required by the city engineer for the embankment or
subgrade, said tests shall be conducted by a certified testing agency and all
costs associated with this testing shall be paid by the owner. (1988 Code
§24.408)
7-2-8: WIDENING STREETS:
When land is subdivided or developed adjacent to an existing street without
curb and gutter, the street shall be provided with curb and gutter to the
proper width and the street shall be reconstructed, widened or resurfaced as
required by the city council. (1988 Code §24.409)
7-2-9: APPROVAL:
All work required to be done under this title by an applicant, be he the owner,
subdivider or contractor, shall be periodically inspected by and approval
obtained from the city engineer as the work progresses. Before final approval
can be obtained, the city engineer shall inspect all work and see that same has
been completed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications. (1988
Code §24.410)
7-2-10: REPLACEMENT OR EXTENSION OF EXISTING SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Replacement; City Subsidy:
      1.   Where any sidewalk located within the city right of way is in need
of repair and it is decided by the city that it is advisable to replace the
sidewalk, the city will pay to the owner twelve dollars ($12.00) per square
foot toward the cost of the new sidewalk as measured and computed by said city,
until funding resources have been exhausted. When the sidewalk being replaced
will cut through the driveway approaches, the city will pay to the owner twelve
dollars ($12.00) per square foot toward the cost of the new sidewalk and/or
concrete apron as measured and computed by the city. Said reimbursement per
square foot shall be a portion of the total cost for sidewalk removal, any fill
that may be needed to bring the subgrade to the proper elevation and the
placing of the new sidewalk. The new sidewalk shall be constructed in
accordance with the city's standard details and specifications (see section
7-2-4, "Design And Construction Standards", of this chapter).
      2.   In the following cases, the city will not pay for any sidewalk
replacement:
         a.   Where it is the developer's responsibility to provide sidewalks.
         b.   Where damage to sidewalks or aprons is caused primarily by the
acts of property owners, or their agents or employees, adjoining the premises
abutting on the sidewalk.
         c.   Where the sidewalks are less than five (5) years old.
         d.   Where the sidewalks have been damaged by the installation of
underground utilities.
         e.   Where foundation walls or footings need to be built or repaired
in the process of replacing or constructing the new sidewalk, the city will pay
for only the surface area of the sidewalk as measured and computed by the city.
         f.   Where the workmanship is not done to the city's satisfaction or
specifications. (1988 Code § 24.501)
   B.   Extensions; City Subsidy: Where there is no existing sidewalk, the city
will pay two dollars twenty five cents ($2.25) per square foot for the
extension of public sidewalk across a property. There will be no payment for
sidewalks when:
      1.   It is the owner's or developer's responsibility to provide
sidewalks.
      2.   An existing development without sidewalks is annexed.
      3.   The workmanship is not done to the city's satisfaction or
specifications 1 . (Ord. 97.23, 6-9-1997; amd. Ord. 2024.22, 10-7-2024)
 
Notes
1 1 See section
  7-2-4 of this chapter for design standards.
7-2-11: DANGEROUS SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful to maintain sidewalks in a dangerous condition in front
of, adjacent to or upon any premises. Whenever the owner or occupant of any
premises in the city is notified that the sidewalk in front of, adjacent to or
upon said premises is dangerous by the engineering department, it shall be the
duty of such owner or occupant to raise, lower or replace said sidewalk as
specified by said engineering department so as to end said dangerous condition
in the time prescribed by said department. (1988 Code §24.502)
7-2-12: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code §
24.505; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Permit Required; Compliance
7-3-2: Application for Permit; Fees
7-3-3: Guarantee Required
7-3-4: Barricades and Lights
7-3-5: Compliance with Permit; Property Injury
7-3-6: Sidewalks
7-3-7: Time Limitations And Scope Of Work
7-3-8: Separation From Existing Utilities
7-3-9: Restoration
7-3-10: Supervision
7-3-11: Record Drawings
7-3-12: Penalties
7-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to tunnel under or to make any utility
installation, excavation, opening, or stairway in any sidewalk, street,
parking, alley or other public place in the City without having obtained a
permit therefor as is herein required or without complying with the provisions
of this Chapter or in violation of or variance from the terms of any such
permit. (Ord. 2021.08, 6-21-2021)
7-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEES:
   A.   Application:
      1.   Applications for Utility Permits shall be made to the City Engineer
using the City of Sycamore's Application - Utility Permit. Two hard copies and
PDF versions are required. The application and corresponding required
information shall describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel,
the size thereof, the purpose therefor and the person doing the actual
excavating work, and the name of the firm or corporation for whom the work is
being done and shall contain an agreement that the applicant will comply with
all ordinances relating to the work to be done.
      2.   Applications for all other excavations within a public right-of-way
including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer and water service repairs and
replacements, shall be made to the Community Development Department using the
City of Sycamore's Permit Application.
   B.   Where projects include more than one thousand (1,000) linear feet of
improvements, the City of Sycamore may require the applicant to include
existing City of Sycamore infrastructure and right of way limits on the permit
application information. If required, the City will provide information in GIS
and PDF format.
   C.   State and County Highways: No permit for building, driveway, sewer and
water main placements requiring installation and/or breaking of pavements or
entering any State or County highway right-of-way shall be issued unless a copy
of a State or County highway permit has been submitted by the applicant.
   D.   Fees:
      1.   Companies operating under a franchise agreement are exempt from the
following fees. Also exempt repairs, replacement, and service connections but
excluding storm, water, and sanitary laterals are exempt from fees.
      2.   A minimum fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) will be required for each
permit plus a permitting fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for every one
thousand (1,000) linear feet of proposed improvement.
      3.   When an excavation is within the limits of a paved street, alley, or
a sidewalk, a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be charged for each
excavation up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per project. Potholing for
utilities is excluded. (Ord. 2021.08, 6-21-2021; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023;
Ord. 2023.16, 10-2-2023)
7-3-3: GUARANTEE REQUIRED:
   A.   Any person, business, contractor or corporation whose construction or
maintenance may occur within a City right-of-way, including but not limited to
any street, alley, parkway, roadway or sidewalk, or which may require traffic
control with any City right-of-way, shall provide an appropriate performance
bond satisfactory to the City in the amount of not less than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) to guarantee the proper restoration of the affected ground
and proper reinstallation of the affected pavement, as well as to pay for any
and all damages which occur to any tree, street, sidewalk, roadway or to other
appurtenance belonging to the City, or to any telegraph, cable, telephone or
electric pole or wire, or to trees or other property of adjacent private
property holders, whether or not such damage was inflicted by the permit holder
or his agents or employees. Companies operating under a franchise agreement are
exempt from this requirement. Bonds shall provide good and sufficient sureties
to save and indemnify the City of Sycamore against all liabilities, judgments
and expenses which may accrue against the City in consequence of the granting
of any permit to perform construction or repair work or to use traffic control
devices, within the public rights-of-way or in consequence of any substandard
work. No bond will be accepted which is not accompanied by a certificate
showing:
      1.   Liability Insurance in force, the limits of which are not less than
two hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) for injury to one (1)
person and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for injuries arising out
of an accident in which more than one (1) person is involved.
      2.   Property damage insurance in force, with a minimum coverage of two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) and a deductible clause not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each certificate of insurance must
indicate the policy's expiration date.
   B.   Should any person, business contractor or entity fail to properly
restore or correct any of the deficiencies outlined in chapter
7-3-3-A of this code, the City shall have the right to claim all monies
necessary to cure such failure in accordance with the terms of the performance
bond. (Ord. 2021.08, 6-21-2021; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023; Ord. 2023.16, 10-
2-2023)
7-3-4: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS 1 :
Any person making or maintaining any excavation in any street, alley, or
sidewalk shall keep the same adequately guarded by barricades, rails, and
lights to protect persons and property from injury. No materials or equipment
shall be stored within the right-of-way, unless authorized by the City of
Sycamore. (Ord. 2021.08, 6-21-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  7-1-7 of this Title.
7-3-5: COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT; PROPERTY INJURY:
It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any way contrary
to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper bracing shall
be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground. No injury shall be
done to any pipes, cables, or conduits. No unnecessary damage or injury shall
be done to any tree or shrub or the roots thereof. (Ord. 2021.08, 6-21-2021)
7-3-6: SIDEWALKS:
If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be a safe hard surface for travel and
convenient for users. (Ord. 2021.08, 6-21-2021)
7-3-7: TIME LIMITATIONS AND SCOPE OF WORK:
   A.   Each application for a permit shall state the length of time it is
estimated will elapse from the commencement of the work until the required
restoration work is completed. It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with this
time limitation unless permission for an extension of time is granted by the
City Engineer.
   B.   The City of Sycamore reserves the right to limit or phase the scope of
work as to minimize disruption to the City’s right-of--way, easements, and
public property. The City of Sycamore reserves the right to restrict
construction during special events or to accommodate other activities. (Ord.
2021.08, 6-21-2021)
7-3-8: SEPARATION FROM EXISTING UTILITIES:
   A.   A minimum horizontal clearance of five feet (5') shall be maintained
between the improvements and all public sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water
mains, private services and the like, unless otherwise approved by the City of
Sycamore.
   B.   A minimum vertical clearance of two feet (2') shall be maintained
between the proposed improvements and all public sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
water mains, private services and the like, unless otherwise approved by the
City of Sycamore.
   C.   Any changes, modifications, or additions to the approved plans must be
approved prior to installation.
   D.   Any improvements not in accordance with the aforementioned requirements
shall be relocated to a suitable location at the request of the City of
Sycamore. This work shall be completed within thirty (30) calendar days and at
no cost to the City of Sycamore. (Ord. 2021.08, 6-21-2021)
7-3-9: RESTORATION:
   A.   Backfilling: Any person making an excavation or tunnel in or under any
public sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place in the City shall restore
the surface thereof to its original condition. If the excavation is within the
limits of a street, alley, driveway, or sidewalk, the trench shall be
backfilled with select granular material properly compacted and repaired in
accordance with the City’s standard details.
   B.   Restoration of Pavement and Concrete: Any opening in a paved or
improved portion of a street, alley, or sidewalk shall be properly restored by
the applicant, in compliance with the City’s standard detail and subject to the
supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works or, if such work is not done
within ten (10) days after restoration is possible, the City may approve an
extension or restore the surface, using City Crews or a third-party, and charge
all costs to the permittee. Temporary patches such as cold patch or gravel are
not permitted in any street, alleyway, approach, pathway, or sidewalk beyond
ten (10) days unless approved by the City Engineer.
   C.   At the completion of work, all marking flags shall be removed by the
applicant.
   D.   The applicant shall contact the City Engineer for final inspection of
the restoration. (Ord. 2021.08, 6-21-2021)
7-3-10: SUPERVISION:
   A.   The applicant shall provide a single point of contact for construction.
The point of contact will be responsible for scheduling, verifying right-of-way
and easement limits, addressing contractor issues, and resident concerns.
   B.   The City Engineer and City of Sycamore designees shall, from time to
time, inspect all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public
sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place in the City to assure
compliance. Proper notice shall be given to the City Engineer or Public Works
designees for all required inspection. (Ord. 2021.08, 6-21-2021)
7-3-11: RECORD DRAWINGS:
Within thirty (30) days of the completion of work, the City Engineer shall
receive “as built” drawings of the permitted improvements in hard copy and
digital format on a micro-computer CD-ROM that is compatible with AutoCADD. All
utilities, including rights of way lines, lot number, lot lines, and other
mapping data typical to the City’s GIS, shall be included as overlay maps.
Depending on the scope of work, the City Engineer reserves the right to waive
items included in the “as built” drawings. (Ord. 2021.08, 6-21-2021)
7-3-12: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2021.08,
6-21-2021; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 4
STREET AND HOUSE NUMBERING
SECTION:
7-4-1: House Numbering
7-4-2: Chart
7-4-1: HOUSE NUMBERING:
   A.   Method Of Numbering: All lots, buildings and structures in the city
shall be numbered in accordance with the following plan:
      1.   Main Street shall be the base line for east and west numbers and
State Street for north and south numbers.
      2.   Odd numbers shall be on the north and west sides of the streets;
even numbers shall be on the south and east sides of the streets.
      3.   There shall be one hundred (100) numbers to each block.
   B.   Numbers Required: It shall be the duty of the owners and occupants of
every building in the city to have placed thereon, in a place visible from the
street, figures at least two and one-half inches (21/2") high, showing the
number of the house.
   C.   Multiple-Unit Buildings: All multiple-unit buildings with four (4) or
less units and all residential townhouse units shall be assigned a separate
street address number for each unit providing there are sufficient numbers
available; and, all other multiple-unit buildings with more than four (4) units
shall be assigned one street address number with letter suffixes for individual
designations.
   D.   Penalties: Any person failing to so number any house, building or other
structure occupied by him, or if after receiving notice to do so from the
clerk, shall continue in his failure to so number such house, building or
structure, shall be subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   E.   Curb House Numbers: In addition to the numbering required on buildings
in the city of Sycamore, a building owner may cause the same house number to be
placed on the curb at the street in front of the main entrance to the building.
The curb house numbers shall be four inches (4") high; the numbers shall be
white on a black background; the paint shall be oil-based and iridescent; and,
the house number shall be near the driveway curb cut so it will not be blocked
from view by parked vehicles. Persons offering or selling services to paint
house numbers on city curbs shall be considered "solicitors" and shall be
licensed according to the provisions of section 3-4-2 of this code. (1988 Code
§§ 24.701 and 24.703; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 95.09, 5-30-1995; Ord. 2000.21, 7-
17-2000; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
7-4-2: CHART:
The city clerk shall keep a chart showing the proper street number of every lot
in the city which shall be open to inspection by anyone interested. (1988 Code
§24.702)
CHAPTER 5
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose And Intent
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Injury
7-5-4: Advertisements Or Notices
7-5-5: Dangerous Trees
7-5-6: Wires
7-5-7: Enforcement And Penalties
7-5-8: Planting And Maintenance
7-5-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote and protect the
public health, safety, and general welfare by providing for the regulation of
the planting, maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants on
public streets, alleys, highways, highway easements, parkways, and other land
publicly owned or controlled by the city.
   B.   Intent: It is the intent of the city council that the terms of this
chapter shall be construed so as to promote:
      1.   The planting, maintenance, restoration, and survival of desirable
trees, shrubs, and other plants on land publicly owned or controlled by the
city; and
      2.   The protection of community residents from personal injury and
property damage, and the protection of the city from property damage, caused or
threatened by the improper planting, maintenance, or removal of trees, shrubs,
or other plants located on land publicly owned or controlled by the city. (Ord.
2006.34, 9-5-2006)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   INJURY: Any direct or indirect action that causes, or is reasonably likely
to cause, the death of a tree or shrub or a significant loss of the structural
integrity of a tree or shrub.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Property within the city limits of Sycamore, Illinois, that is
owned by the city in fee simple absolute, or implied by or expressly dedicated
to the public for present or future use for purposes of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic or for public right of way.
   TREES AND SHRUBS: All vegetation, woody or otherwise, except lawn grass and
flowers less than twenty four inches (24") in height. (Ord. 2006.34, 9-5-2006)
7-5-3: INJURY:
It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in any public place.
(1988 Code §26.904)
7-5-4: ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES 1 :
It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree or
shrub in any street, parkway or other public place. (1988 Code §26.905)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  7-1-8A of this title.
7-5-5: DANGEROUS TREES:
   A.   Interference With Traffic: Any tree or shrub which overhangs any
sidewalk, street or other public place in the municipality at a less height
than eight feet (8') or in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or
travel on such public place shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting
premises or of the premises on which such tree or shrub grows, so that the
obstruction shall cease.
   B.   Weakened Trees And Limbs: Any tree or limb of a tree which has become
likely to fall on or across any public way or place shall be removed by the
owner of the premises on which such tree grows or stands. (1988 Code §26.906)
7-5-6: WIRES:
   A.   General Prohibition: It shall be unlawful to attach any wires or rope
to any tree or shrub in any public street, parkway or other public place
without the permission of the city council.
   B.   Franchise Agreements: Any person given the right to maintain the poles
and wires in the streets, alleys or other public places in the municipality
shall, in the absence of provisions in the franchise concerning the subject,
keep such wires and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such
places so far as may be possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs
properly trimmed, subject to the supervision of the superintendent of public
works so that no injury shall be done either to the poles or wires or the
shrubs and trees by their contact. (1988 Code §26.907)
7-5-7: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement: The public works superintendent or its designee shall
enforce rules, regulations and specifications concerning the planting,
preservation, maintenance, removal, pruning and protection of trees and shrubs
located upon the right of way of any public street, alley, or public place
within the city.
   B.   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this chapter, where no
other penalty is provided, shall be subject to penalty as provided in the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2006.34, 9-5-2006; amd. Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
7-5-8: PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Planting: Any person wishing to install new or replacement trees or
shrubs on any public street, parkway, or other public place must first secure a
written permit from the public works superintendent or its designee.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the public works superintendent
or its designee. All trees and shrubs so planted shall be placed subject to
directions and approval of the public works superintendent or its designee.
   B.   Specifications: It shall be unlawful for any person to plant or cause
to be planted in any parkway within the city, any tree or shrub less than three
feet (3') from the outer line of the sidewalk. No tree shall be planted in
parkways or streets at a distance less than eight feet (8') from any crosswalk
or intersecting street or alley, and no shrub shall be planted in any parkways
or any streets at a distance less than twenty five feet (25') from any
crosswalk or intersecting street or alley.
   C.   Maintenance: All tree and shrub removal, pruning, trimming and spraying
on public streets, parkways, or other public place shall not be performed
without first securing a written permit from the public works superintendent or
its designee. All such removal, pruning, trimming and spraying shall be subject
to directions and approval of the public works superintendent or its designee.
(Ord. 2006.34, 9-5-2006)
CHAPTER 6
BICYCLE TRAFFIC AREAS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Bicycle Paths
7-6-1: BICYCLE PATHS:
The following streets and other right of way areas shall be designated as
bicycle path areas for passage from the bicycle path at Borden Avenue in the
City, to the bicycle path at East State Street/Illinois State Route 64; Borden
Avenue east to Somonauk Street; Somonauk Street north to Turner Place; Turner
Place east to South Locust Street; South Locust Street north to Lincoln Street;
Lincoln Street east to Kishwaukee Drive; Kishwaukee Drive north to East State
Street; East State Street east to the west entrance to the Sycamore Park; the
west entrance to the Sycamore Park southeast to the southeast entrance to the
Sycamore Park on Airport Road; and, Airport road north to the Northwestern
Railroad bicycle path on the north side of East State Street/Illinois State
Route 64. (Ord. 95.34, 9-5-95)
CHAPTER 7
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Purpose And Scope
7-7-2: Definitions
7-7-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
7-7-4: Dispute Resolution
7-7-5: Indemnification
7-7-6: Insurance
7-7-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the City's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the City exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act.
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict, specifically, but not limited to section
7-1-9 of this title.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 2018.03, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-26-2018)
7-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
   ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the City for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522
(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153
(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51),
as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE: A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section
VI.D.1.a.i through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement
codified at 47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked
building, property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the
City pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the
Certified Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation
Office or where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois
State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the City in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT: A written authorization required by the City to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE: A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. Right-of-way does not include City- owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the City.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
2018.03, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-26-2018)
7-7-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
subsection C9 of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but not
subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-of-
way in any zoning district, or 2) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the
City to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be received
and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following conditions
and requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the City, together with the City's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be attached to an
existing pole owned by an entity other than the City, the wireless provider
shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of the owner of such
pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Application Process: The City shall process applications as follows:
         a.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         b.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the City fails to
approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after the submission of
a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five (75)
days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed approved notice
shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this section.
         c.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the City fails to approve or
deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after the submission
of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five
(105) days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed approved notice
shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this section.
         d.   The City shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
If the City determines that applicable codes, ordinances or regulations that
concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and conditions contained
herein require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced
before the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the provider.
The City shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the City denies an
application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the City and resubmit the
revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of denial is sent
to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The City shall
approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require the applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the City's review period.
The applicant must notify the City in writing of its intention to proceed with
the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted with
the revised application.
Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the denial. However, this revised application does not apply if the cure
requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
         e.   Within thirty (30) days after an approved permit to collocate a
small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, the City and the applicant
shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement, provided by the City for
the initial collocation on a Municipal utility pole by the application. For
subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless facility on a
Municipal utility pole, the City and the applicant shall enter into a License
Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
      3.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving
an application, the City shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the City must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the City fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the City's permit application form are submitted by the applicant
to the City.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the City sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      4.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         a.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the City;
or
         b.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the City may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The City may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the City makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or
the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable City codes
or any provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of permits
shall be subject to the applicable City Code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the City by personal
delivery at the Sycamore Municipal Building, 308 W. State Street, Sycamore,
Illinois 60178, by regular mail postmarked on the date due or by any other
commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   C.   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The City may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the City's electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the City reasonably determines
that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      3.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
The City may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous section. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   Placement On Utility Poles: The wireless provider shall not
collocate small wireless facilities on City utility poles that are part of an
electric distribution or transmission system within the communication worker
safety zone of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the City utility pole and on the top
of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider complies
with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subsection, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      5.   Compliance: The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable
codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      6.   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in a City ordinance, written policy adopted by the City, a comprehensive plan
or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-
way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      7.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this section, a wireless
provider shall not be required to collocate small wireless facilities on any
specific utility pole, or category of utility poles, or be required to
collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole. However, with
respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless facility
associated with a new utility pole, the City may propose that the small
wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within one hundred feet (100') of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the City, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the
criteria in this section.
      8.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the City, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the City, provided the City may designate which
intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height limitation
for such facility; or
         b.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      9.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variation in conformance with procedures, terms and
conditions set forth in article 4.6 of the City's unified development
ordinance.
      10.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the City and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground- mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      11.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      12.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
      13.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the City and the wireless provider agree to extend this
period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility pole or
by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided
the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days after
the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the
additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred sixty
(360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be void
unless the City grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   D.   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee as set by the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee as set by the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   The City shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the City at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with subsection B1d of this section; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the City to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   E.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the City or another unit of local government that is not located within rights-
of-way, or a privately-owned utility pole or wireless support structure without
the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection E3, "public utility" has the meaning given
to that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: a) to
obtain a franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or
video service or b) to obtain any required permission to install, place,
maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless
facilities subject to this chapter.
   F.   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the City and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
City utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the City's utility poles pursuant
to applications submitted to the City before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the City on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the City
makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the City
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the City's utility
poles pursuant to applications submitted to the City before the wireless
provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this section.
   G.   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to the City an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a City utility
pole located in a right-of-way as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
   H.   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from the City notifying the wireless
provider of the abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the City to the owner at the last known address of the wireless
provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety (90) days
of such notice, the City may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for Municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the City if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City. Such
notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. 2018.03, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
7-7-4: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of DeKalb County, Illinois shall have exclusive jurisdiction
to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
City shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2018.03,
7-16-2018, eff. 7-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
7-7-5: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the City harmless against any and
all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting from or
arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the City
improvements or right-of- way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the City or its employees or
agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the City with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability. (Ord. 2018.03, 7-16-2018,
eff. 7-26-2018)
7-7-6: INSURANCE:
   A.   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      1.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
      2.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      3.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the City improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of City
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
The wireless provider shall include the City as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the City in a commercial general liability policy prior to the
collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the City. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the City evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the City. (Ord. 2018.03, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-26-2018)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Department Established; Director Of Public Works
8-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:
There is hereby established an executive department of the City to be known and
designated as the Combined Waterworks and Sewerage Department of the City, and
there shall be placed in charge of the general management and control thereof a
Director of Public Works who shall be appointed by the City Manager with the
approval of the City Council, expressed by ordinance, it being hereby
determined and declared that the establishment of the department and the
appointment of a Director of Public Works is necessary and expedient for the
best interests of this City. The Director of Public Works shall qualify for
office in the same manner as any elective officials of the City, and shall post
such bond in such amount as may be determined by the City Manager. All
necessary employees of the department shall likewise be appointed by the City
Manager with the approval of the City Council expressed by ordinance. (Ord.
2018.22, 4-15-2019)
CHAPTER 2
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Scope Of Provisions
8-2-2: Connections
8-2-3: Application For Service
8-2-4: Resale
8-2-5: Bulk Use
8-2-6: Repairs Or Replacement; Excavations
8-2-7: Liability Insurance Requirements
8-2-8: Taps And Water Service Pipes
8-2-9: Water Meters
8-2-10: Water Main Construction
8-2-11: Revocation Of Permit
8-2-12: Discontinuance Of The Use Of A Water Service
8-2-13: Trespass To Water Tower
8-2-14: Violations And Penalties
8-2-1: SCOPE OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall control the design and construction of
water supplies and water distribution systems in the city. (1988 Code §20.101)
8-2-2: CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Water Mains Or Extensions; Fees: No person shall be permitted to make a
connection to the city’s water supply unless a connection is also made to the
city’s sanitary sewer system. In cases where it is the applicant’s desire to
utilize a city built water main or water main extension, there shall be a
charge as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. In addition to
the above front foot fee for city built water mains there will be a fee per
“unit” for any connection to the municipal water system as set by the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (A “unit” is based on the occupancy and
values that are determined in subsection
8-4-2C of this title.) When a property which has already been served with city
water requires additional units, a credit shall be given for previous units
with the fee applied to the new units. The funds thus collected shall be used
for general corporate purposes and primarily applied to the construction,
expansion and extension of the city’s water system. No permit shall be issued
or water supplied until said fees are paid in full.
   B.   Metered Water: All water supplied shall be metered to the consumer and
no sewer service shall be supplied unless the premises or property to be
serviced are connected with the systems. All new service connections shall be
installed at the expense of the applicant upon such terms and conditions as the
city council shall require. Exception: See section
8-2-9 of this chapter.
   C.   Private Wells: Except for such uses or methods as are in existence on
or before July 2, 2001 and properties within corporate limits zoned R-4, Rural
Residential, the private use or attempted use of groundwater from within the
corporate limits of the city as a potable water supply by the installation or
drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited. Properties that
are now served only by a private well may continue to be served by that well as
long as the water is certified as potable at least every two (2) years without
modifications to the well. When the public water system extends across the
frontage street and is located within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the
nearest point of the property, the existing well shall be capped and public
water system shall be extended to the property.
   D.   Development Sites: The use or attempt to use groundwater from within a
"development site" as defined in subsection E of this section, which is
property located within the corporate limits, as a potable water supply by the
installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited,
including at points of withdrawal by the city. All restrictions contained in
this subsection are binding on the city.
   E.   Definitions:
   DEVELOPMENT SITE: Shall include development sites as follows:
      1.   Outlot "A" of Waterman and Ellwood's north addition to the town of
Sycamore, in the county of DeKalb, and state of Illinois, excepting therefrom
the sixty (60) foot right of way of the Chicago and North Western Railway
Company running across said outlot "A", in section 32, township 41 north, range
5 east of the Third Principal Meridian in DeKalb County, Illinois.
      2.   Lots 1 and 2 of lot 1 and lots 1 and 2 of lot 2 in the resubdivision
of Block 16 in the original town of Sycamore, according to the plat thereof
recorded in book "B" of plats, page 13, on May 31, 1877, situated in DeKalb
County, Illinois.
      3.   Lots 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 in revision to the plat of Woodgate North
of Sycamore, according to the plat thereof recorded in book "T" of plats, page
51, on October 26, 1987, situated in DeKalb County, Illinois. Together with all
of the public street right-of-way of DeKalb Avenue adjoining the above-
described Lots 7, 8, 9, and 10 on the north side thereof, and all of the public
street right-of-way of Woodgate Drive adjoining the above-described Lots 5, 6,
and 7 on the west side thereof.
      4.   Lot 1 in final plat of Peace Road Plaza of Sycamore, according to
the plat thereof recorded in book "Z" of plats, page 63, on July 28, 1995,
situated in DeKalb County, Illinois. Together with all of the public street
right-of-way of DeKalb Avenue adjoining the above-described subject premises on
the north side thereof.
      5.   Lots 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and Common Area of Lot 101 in resubdivision
of Grand View Townhouses Phase One of Sycamore, according to the plat thereof
recorded in book "X" of plats, page 56, on March 17, 1993, situated in DeKalb
County, Illinois. Together with all of the public street right-of-way of DeKalb
Avenue adjoining the above-described Common Area of Lot 101 on the south side
thereof.
      6.   Lot 3 in the subdivision of United Savings Park of Sycamore,
according to the plat thereof recorded in book "U" of plats, page 1, on
November 16, 1988, situated in DeKalb County, Illinois. Together with all of
the public street right-of-way of DeKalb Avenue adjoining the above-described
subject premises on the south side thereof.
      7.   PIN: 06-32-281-013 located at 227 East State Street, in Sycamore,
Illinois with legal description: the South 90 feet of Lot 8 in Block 12 in the
Original Town (now City) of Sycamore, situated in DeKalb County, Illinois, as
depicted on Exhibit A, on file in the City and incorporated herein.
      8.   PIN: 06-32-281-012 located at 111 N. Walnut Street, in Sycamore,
Illinois with legal description: Lot 8 (except the South 90 feet thereof) in
Block 12 in the Original Town (now City) of Sycamore, Illinois, in Book "A" of
Deeds, pages 16 and 17, situated in DeKalb County, Illinois, as depicted on
Exhibit A on file in the City.
      9.   The Walnut Street right-of-way that is contiguous to Lot 8 as
described in subsections 7 and 8 of this definition, as depicted on Exhibit A
on file in the City.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents, or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes,
preparing foods, watering lawns, or watering gardens in which produce intended
for human consumption is grown.
   F.   Penalties: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine for each violation as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 92.36, 10-19-1992, eff. 5-1-1993; amd. 1994
Code; Ord. 2001.19, 7-2-2001; Ord. 2013.32, 2-17-2014; Ord. 2015.12, 8-17-2015;
Ord. 2016.16, 6-20-2016; Ord. 2016.18, 8-15-2016; Ord. 2017.10, 9-18-2017; Ord.
2019.08, 6-17-2019; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
8-2-3: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
Application to have a water service turned on shall be made with the city
clerk, which application shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide
by and accept all of the provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the
use of the city water supply by the applicant. No water from the city water
supply shall be turned on for service to any premises by any person except the
water superintendent or some person authorized by him to perform this service.
In addition, no water shall be turned on for service to premises in which the
plumbing does not comply with the ordinances of the city 1 ; provided, that
water may be turned on for construction work in unfinished buildings subject to
the provisions of this chapter. (1988 Code §20.103)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 3 of this code for plumbing regulations.
8-2-4: RESALE:
No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the city
supply to any premises other than that for which application has been made and
the meter installed, except in case of emergency and when approved by the
mayor. (1988 Code §20.105)
8-2-5: BULK USE:
No water for bulk use may be obtained from the city's water supply system for
any source other than the city fire department. No water shall be taken from
hydrants and no other water shall be obtained from the city, except on the
terms and at the charges provided by the ordinances of the city 2 . (1988 Code
§20.106)
 
Notes
2 2. See section
  8-5-1 of this title for bulk use rates.
8-2-6: REPAIRS OR REPLACEMENT; EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Responsibility:
      1.   In the event a break or leak develops in the water service pipe, the
city shall be responsible for repair if such leak is located on the City's side
of the shutoff valve or curb stop (between the center of the shutoff valve or
curb stop and the main), and the customer shall be responsible for the repair
of any leaks on the customer's side of the shutoff valve or curb stop (between
the center of the shutoff valve or curb stop and the water meter location). In
the event of a leak on the customer's side, if the customer refuses or fails to
make necessary repairs, or in the case of an emergency as determined by the
Director of Public Works or his designee, or where such opportunity is not
feasible and the repair is determined to be in the best interest of public
health and safety, the City will make the necessary repairs at the expense of
the customer. Failure of the customer to allow such repairs to be made shall be
sufficient cause for discontinuance of service.
      2.   Replacement of residential service pipes from the point of
connection to the City's water main, up to and inclusive of the buffalo or
shut-off box and the shutoff valve/curb stop, shall be made by and at the
expense of the City. Replacement of commercial of industrial service pipes from
the point of connection to the City's water main shall be made by and at the
expense of the customer, unless otherwise noted on the approved final
engineering plans and located within a dedicated easement. If a customer wishes
to upsize their service line, the customer shall be responsible for the entire
cost of the service replacement.
      3.   The City may, in case of an emergency, repair any service pipe or
valve located within the point of connection to the shut off valve or curb stop
to the premises being served and assess the cost of such repair against the
owner of the premises being served.
   B.   Excavations 1 :
      1.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to tunnel or
make any excavation for repairing or replacing a water service in any existing
street, sidewalk, driveway, alley, parking or other public place without having
obtained a permit therefor.
      2.   Permit Fees: When the excavation is within a paved street or alley,
a street opening fee as set forth in subsection
7-3-2-D of this code will be charged.
      3.   Guarantee: See section
7-3-3 of this code for guarantee requirements.
      4.   Backfilling: All excavation in any existing street, sidewalk,
driveway or alley shall be backfilled with select granular material and
repaired in accordance with the city's standard details.
   C.   Replacement of Lead and Galvanized Water Service Lines: The replacement
of any private lead or galvanized water service line shall be completed in
accordance with all current Federal, State and Local regulations. Replacement
of service pipes from the point of connection to the City's water main, up to
and inclusive of the buffalo or shut-off box and the shutoff valve/curb stop,
shall be made by and at the expense of the City in accordance with chapter
8-2-6-A-2 of this code. (1988 Code § 20.104; amd. Ord. 89.42, 11-6-1989;1994
Code; Ord. 2021.05, 6-7-2021; Ord. 2021.15, 10-4-2021; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023;
Ord. 2023.16, 10-2-2023)
 
Notes
1 See also
   title 7, chapter 3 of this code for excavations regulations
8-2-7: LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Any person performing work under this chapter shall take out and maintain
during the construction of the project such liability and property damage
insurance as shall protect him, the city and the city's representatives from
claims from liability and property damages which may arise from construction of
the work. The city shall be furnished certificates of insurance issued by the
companies carrying the risk, which said certificates shall be in form and
substance satisfactory to and approved by the city. (1988 Code §20.109)
8-2-8: TAPS AND WATER SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Size Of Water Service Pipes: The water service pipe which extends from
the water main to a building shall be of sufficient size to furnish water in
the quantities and at the pressures as set forth in the "Illinois Plumbing Code
- Current Edition". In any event, the size of the water service pipe shall not
be less than one-inch (1") diameter for any one (1) building.
   B.   Type Of Material: Water service pipe with a diameter of two inches (2")
or less shall be either copper/copper alloy - type K, (ASTM B42-2010 or ASTM
B88-2009) or Polyethylene (ASTM D2239-2012A or ASTM D2737-2012a). Water service
pipe with a diameter greater than two inches (2") shall be ductile cast iron
pipe, Class 52 or greater (ASTM A377-2008e1). All buried non-metallic water
service pipe shall be installed with a parallel tracer wire per city
specifications to be used for locating the pipe after burial.
   C.   Valve Manhole: Where service pipes are installed that are greater than
two inches (2") and the shut off valve is located within a street or other
paved area, then the shut off valve shall be located in a valve manhole. The
size and type of valve manhole shall be in accordance with the city's current
standard details. Any shut off valve greater than two inches (2") which is
located outside the limits of a street or paved area may be located in a cast
iron valve box as approved by the Water Superintendent.
   D.   Water Taps; Application:
      1.   Any person desiring to use water from the public water supply of the
city shall submit an application for a water tap to the City Engineer. All such
applications shall be accompanied by a plan showing the location of the tap to
be made, the location of the service pipe and the shut off box or valve manhole
in relation to the sidewalk and building to be served. The plan shall also show
the size of the water main and the size of the type of material of the water
service pipe.
      2.   All one-inch (1") water taps shall be made by the City Water
Department unless such water services have been installed as part of a new
subdivision development. There shall be no charge for water taps made by the
developer's contractor.
      3.   All water taps more than one inch (1") in size shall be performed by
a qualified contractor and said contractor shall furnish all labor and
materials required for a proper connection.
      4.   All work shall be inspected by the city's Water Division
Superintendent, or his/her designee, or Plumbing Inspector.
      5.   A one-inch (1") water tap, when made by the city, shall include the
installation of a corporation cock furnished by the city.
      6.   The valve, shutoff box and water service pipe shall be furnished and
installed at the expense of the applicant, owner or contractor, as shall all
labor and materials for excavation, trenching, augering and all restoration
work.
      7.   If the water service tap is for replacing an existing water service,
then the existing water service shall be abandoned in place at the expense of
the applicant, owner or contractor by shutting off the existing corporation at
the water main.
   E.   Water Tap Fees; Permit: A permit must be obtained from the Building
Department before any work begins.
      1.   Water Service And Tap Fees: Applicable fees are provided for in the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      2.   Water Inspection Fees: Applicable fees are provided for in the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   F.   Installation Of Water Service Pipes: Except as permitted below, the
underground water service pipe and sanitary sewer service shall be constructed
not less than ten feet (10') apart horizontally. The water service pipe may be
placed in the same trench as a sanitary sewer service provided, the following
conditions are met:
      1.   The bottom of the water service pipe shall be at least eighteen
inches (18") above the top of the sewer pipe.
      2.   The water service pipe shall be placed on a solid shelf excavated at
one (1) side of the trench.
      3.   The number of joints in the water service pipe shall be kept to a
minimum.
      4.   The water service pipe shall be constructed in accordance with the
city's current standard details and in such a manner as to provide five and
one-half feet (5-1/2') of cover for frost protection.
(1988 Code §§ 20.203, 20.205; amd. Ord. 09.43, 11-6-1989; 1994 Code; Ord.
2001.56, 1-7-2002; Ord. 2014.33, 1-20- 2015; Ord. 2019.24, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-
2020; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
8-2-9: WATER METERS:
   A.   Meters Required; Exception:
      1.   Except where specifically waived by the city council in cases of
hardship or impracticality where the number of cubic feet consumed per billing
period is less than two hundred (200) and the owner of the premises agrees to
pay a rate of not less than the minimum bill provided by ordinance, all
premises using the city water supply must be equipped with an adequate water
meter furnished by the city, but paid for by the consumer; provided, that such
water service may be supplied by the city at a flat rate or charge of one
dollar ($1.00) per day until such meter may be installed; provided, further,
that the city shall pay the cost of any meter of three-fourths inch (3/4") size
or under.
      2.   In the case of seven (7) or less attached tenant units of any zoning
classification or combination of any zoning classification, there shall be one
of the following installations of water meters:
         a.   One water meter sized by the locally adopted plumbing code, as
prescribed herein.
         b.   One water meter per tenant unit and one water meter to be used in
the common areas of the structure to monitor water consumption not associated
with any other building unit attached to the same. These water meters shall be
sized by the locally adopted plumbing code, as prescribed herein.
      3.   In the case of eight (8) or more attached tenant units of any zoning
classification or combination of any zoning classification, with the exception
of condominium type use, there shall be one water meter allowed to the
structure by the locally adopted plumbing code. (Ord. 96.56, 9-30-1996)
   B.   Large Meters: Any water meter two inches (2") diameter and larger shall
be a compound meter. For water meters larger than two inches (2") diameter a
bypass line shall be constructed to permit the removal of the water meter for
repair purposes without an extended interruption of service. (1988 Code
§20.301)
   C.   Installation: Outside recorders shall be installed by consumers of
water and owners of buildings in a location that will be easy of access. The
consumers of water and owners of the buildings shall install radio read meters
in a location that will be easy of access on all buildings for which building
permits are issued after August 1, 1999. (Ord. 99.28, 7-19-1999)
   D.   Reading Meters: The water superintendent shall read or cause to be read
every water meter used in the city at such times as are necessary so that the
bills may be sent out at the proper time. (1988 Code §20.303)
   E.   Testing Meters: Any municipal water meter shall be taken out and tested
upon complaint of the consumer and payment of a fee of two dollars ($2.00). If
upon test the meter is not within three percent (3%) of being accurate, it
shall be repaired or replaced and the two dollar ($2.00) fee returned to the
consumer. (1988 Code §20.304)
   F.   Damage To Or Tampering With Meters; Embezzling Water; Violation And
Penalties: Any person knowingly or wilfully damaging meters or tampering with
meters or knowingly or wilfully obtaining city water with intent to permanently
deprive the city of payment therefor or wilfully refusing to have a water meter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be subject
to a fine as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord.
98.55, 10-12-1998; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
8-2-10: WATER MAIN CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Water Distribution System Required: A properly designed water
distribution system shall be provided at the expense of the owner or developer
of a subdivision to serve each lot within said subdivision. (1988 Code §20.401)
   B.   Permit Required; Application: No person shall connect to and extend any
water main in the city's water distribution system without first submitting an
application for a permit to the city and the state environmental protection
agency. The application forms for a permit shall be accompanied by three (3)
sets of plans and specifications for review prepared by a registered
professional engineer of Illinois. When said plans and specifications are
approved and a permit has been issued, the applicant shall furnish the city
with an additional three (3) sets of plans and specifications. The city shall
be given an advance notice of forty eight (48) hours before any construction
begins. (1988 Code §20.402)
   C.   Plan Review Fee: There shall be no fee charged for the review of plans
and specifications for water distribution system construction. (1988 Code
§20.403)
   D.   Guarantee:
      1.   Requirements: The owner shall provide the city with a certified
check or cashier's check, letter of credit or a surety bond, payable to the
city in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the improvement
as estimated by the owner and approved by the city engineer to assure the
satisfactory installation of said improvements as outlined and contained in the
approved plans and specifications. If the owner posts a surety bond, it shall
have good and sufficient surety therein and be approved by the city attorney.
Until official acceptance of the work, the owner shall be responsible for all
maintenance of all required improvements. (1988 Code §20.404)
      2.   Release Of Guarantee: The owner's certified check or cashier's
check, letter of credit or surety bond shall be released only upon the
completion of the following:
         a.   The satisfactory installation of the water main improvements.
         b.   The submission of four (4) sets of approved as built plans for
all water main improvements including one mylar copy.
         c.   The submission of final waiver of liens for all materials and
labor necessary for the installation of the water main improvement.
         d.   Final acceptance by the city council. (1988 Code §20.416)
   E.   Design And Construction Standards: The design and construction of a
water distribution system within the jurisdiction of the city shall conform to
the most restrictive of the requirements contained in the latest edition of the
following regulations, standards and specifications, three (3) copies of each
of which shall be on file in the city clerk's office:
      1.   City's "Standard Details for Water Main Construction".
      2.   "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois".
      3.   "Recommended Standards for Water Works", Great Lakes-Upper
Mississippi River Board of State Sanitary Engineers.
      4.   Rules and regulations contained in the Environmental Protection Act.
      5.   Rules and regulations of the Illinois Pollution Control Board. (1988
Code §20.405)
   F.   Pipe for Water Mains: All pipe for water mains shall be ductile iron
pipe class 53 with a push-on compression gasket joint. The pipe shall conform
to ANSI A21.51 (AWWA C-151). (1988 Code §20.406)
   G.   Size of Pipe for Water Main: No pipe less than six inch (6") diameter
will be permitted for water main construction. The water distribution system
shall be properly looped to form a tight grid system and dead-end mains shall
be avoided where possible. (1988 Code §20.407)
   H.   Pipe Fittings: All pipe fittings shall be mechanical joint ductile iron
fittings conforming to ANSI A21-10 (AWWA C-110) and ANSI 21.11 (AWWA C-111).
(1988 Code §20.408)
   I.   Depth of Pipe Cover: All water mains shall be constructed so that the
distance measured vertically from the finished grade to the top of the pipe is
not less than five and five-tenths feet (5.5'). (1988 Code §20.409)
   J.   Valves: Valves shall be installed so that a main break or other failure
will not affect more than five hundred feet (500') of mains in commercial
districts or more than eight hundred feet (800') in other districts. All valves
and valve manholes shall conform to the requirements of the City's standard
details. (1988 Code §20.410)
   K.   Hydrants: A sufficient number of hydrants shall be provided in order
that no portion of any building is more than three hundred feet (300') from a
fire hydrant. All hydrants shall be provided with an auxiliary valve and shall
conform to the requirements of the City standard details. (1988 Code §20.411)
   L.   Water Main Extensions; Reimbursement: Any water main which is to be
constructed shall extend from the existing water main across the entire width
of the lot to be served, and in the case of a corner lot, the water main shall
also be extended along the side of the lot. When water main has been
constructed at the expense of the City, the City shall be reimbursed at the
rate of nine dollars ($9.00) per front foot of property by the applicant or
owner before any service connection is made to said water main. Unless
otherwise decided by City, all water mains, except service and private lines
for fire protection, shall become the property of the City. The City shall have
the right to extend lines to serve others without obligation to the previous
developer. (1988 Code §20.412)
   M.   Oversize Design: In order to provide for future connections and overall
planning, the City may require larger water mains than would be necessary to
adequately serve the immediate property and may enter into an agreement to
repay the owner or subdivider the difference in the cost of the materials only
for the larger pipes, valves and fittings resulting from the oversize design.
No pipe less than six inches (6") in diameter shall be constructed by the owner
or subdivider. No bids shall be taken or work commenced until such agreement is
arrived at, in writing, with the City. (1988 Code §20.413)
   N.   Pressure Testing of Water Main: After proper installation, all water
mains and services shall be subjected to a hydrostatic pressure test of one
hundred fifty (150) psi for one hour with the allowable leakage being in
accordance with the requirements set forth in the "Standard Specifications For
Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois". The owner, subdivider or
contractor shall conduct and pay all expenses associated with said testing.
(1988 Code §20.414)
   O.   Approval: All work required to be done under this Section by an
applicant be he the owner, subdivider or contractor, shall be periodically
inspected by and approval obtained from the Water Superintendent in charge or
City Engineer as the work progresses. When the work is completed, final
approval shall be obtained from the Water Superintendent in charge or City
Engineer before any building connections are made to the system. Before final
approval can be obtained, the Superintendent in charge or City Engineer shall
inspect all work and see that same has been completed in accordance with the
approved plans and specifications. (1988 Code §20.415; 1994 Code)
8-2-11: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The Water Superintendent is hereby authorized to revoke a permit issued
pursuant to this Chapter when it has been determined that the recipient has
violated the terms and conditions of such permit or of the ordinances contained
in this Title. (1988 Code §20.110)
8-2-12: DISCONTINUANCE OF THE USE OF A WATER SERVICE 1 :
   A.   Responsibility: Whereas it has become a burden involving considerable
time and effort on the part of the City personnel to accomplish compliance in
certain cases where water service must be terminated, the burden will now be
placed upon the responsible party to pay for and expedite the required
termination in that if an existing water service pipe will no longer be used
for any reason or will not be used for a period in excess of six (6) months, it
shall be the responsibility of the owner to terminate this line. Termination
shall be made by excavation at the main, turning off of the corporation stock
(the valve tapped into the main) and physical disconnection of the service
line.
   B.   Permanent Removal Or Demolition: In the case of discontinuance due to
removal from the site or demolition of a building, the service line must be
properly terminated prior to removal or demolition and in keeping with this
requirement, a permit for removal or demolition shall not be issued until
proper verification of this termination has been made.
   C.   Exception: In the case of all copper service lines, where the main and
corporation cock are under the roadway, termination may be made at the
curbstop. This exception shall not apply when the site or building being
demolished is to be used as a permanent parking lot.
   D.   Termination In Conjunction With New Service:
      1.   In the case of a service replacement with a new tap at the main, a
deposit shall be paid to the City Clerk as set out in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. From this deposit shall be deducted any expense
incurred by the City for completion of this work. This termination must be done
on the same day as the installation of the new service or the City will
contract with an independent contractor of their choosing for the completion of
this work.
      2.   After proper termination has been verified by inspection, the
balance of the deposit shall be returned to the applicant, without interest.
   E.   Water Termination Inspection: Applicable charges shall be provided for
in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 90.23, 9-24-1990; amd.
Ord. 97.26, 7-7-1997; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  8-5-3 of this Title for billing procedures.
8-2-13: TRESPASS TO WATER TOWER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to climb any water tower of the City
without written permission of the Mayor, City Council, head of the Water
Department or the Chief of Police of the City. (1988 Code §20.601)
8-2-14: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Nuisance Declared 1 : Any violation of any terms and provisions of this
Chapter is hereby declared by the Mayor and Council of the City to be a public
nuisance.
   B.   Violation And Penalties: Unless otherwise provided, any person
violating or failing to comply with any of the terms or provisions of this
Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule. (1988 Code §§ 20.207 and 20.111; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-
2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 4, Chapter 3 of this Code for nuisance provisions.
CHAPTER 3
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Compliance with Existing Laws
8-3-3: Cross-Connections Prohibited
8-3-4: Local Cross-Connection Control Program
8-3-5: Corrections and Protective Devices
8-3-6: Piping Identification
8-3-7: Private Water Storage Tanks
8-3-8: Elimination of Existing Cross-Connections
8-3-9: Inspection
8-3-10: Discontinuance of Water Service
8-3-11: Penalty
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   BACKFLOW: Water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants
entering a public water supply system due to a reversal of flow. "Back
siphonage" is one type of backflow.
   CROSS-CONNECTION: A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenance from
which a backflow could occur.
   SAFE AIR GAP: The minimum distance of a water inlet or opening above the
maximum high water level or overflow rim in a fixture, device or container to
which public water is furnished which shall be at least two (2) times the
inside diameter of the water inlet pipe but shall not be less than one inch
(1") and need not be more than twelve inches (12").
   SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY: A water supply system maintained in addition to a
public water supply which in any way has been treated, processed or exposed to
any possible contaminant or stored in other than an approved storage facility.
   SUBMERGED INLET: A water pipe or extension thereto from a public water
supply terminating in a tank, vessel, fixture or appliance which may contain
water of questionable quality, waste or other contaminant and which is
unprotected against backflow.
   WATER UTILITY: The City Water Department. (1988 Code §20.107)
8-3-2: COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING LAWS:
A connection with a public water supply system shall comply with the existing
laws and rules, The Illinois State Plumbing Code 1  and the provision of the
Code of the City 2 . (1988 Code §20.107)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-3-2 of this Code.
2 2. See Chapter 2 of this Title for water use and service regulations.
8-3-3: CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
Cross-connection of the public water supply system and any other water supply
system or source, including but not limited to the following, are prohibited:
   A.   Between a public water supply system and a secondary water supply.
   B.   By submerged inlet.
   C.   Between a lawn sprinkling system and the public water supply system.
   D.   Between a public water supply and piping which may contain sanitary
waste or a chemical contaminant.
   E.   Between a public water supply system and piping immersed in a tank or
vessel which may contain a contaminant. (1988 Code §20.107)
8-3-4: LOCAL CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM:
The City shall develop a comprehensive control program for the elimination and
prevention of all cross-connections and removal of all existing cross-
connections and prevention of all future cross-connections. (1988 Code §20.107)
8-3-5: CORRECTIONS AND PROTECTIVE DEVICES:
Any user of the water supply system shall obtain written approval from the
Water Department of any proposed corrective action or protective device before
using or installing it. The total time allowed for completion of the necessary
corrections shall be contingent upon the degree of hazard involved and include
the time required to obtain and install equipment. If the cross- connection has
not been removed within the time as hereinafter specified, the City shall
physically separate the water supply system from the on-site piping system in
such manner that the two (2) systems cannot be connected by any unauthorized
person. (1988 Code §20.107)
8-3-6: PIPING IDENTIFICATION:
When a secondary water source is used in addition to the public water supply,
the public water supply and secondary water piping shall be identified by
distinguishing colors or tags and so maintained that each pipe may be traced
readily in its entirety, it will be necessary to protect the water supply
system at the service connection in a manner acceptable to the Water
Department. (1988 Code §20.107)
8-3-7: PRIVATE WATER STORAGE TANKS:
A private water storage tank supplied from the water supply system shall be
deemed a secondary water supply unless it is designed and approved for potable
water usage. (1988 Code §20.107)
8-3-8: ELIMINATION OF EXISTING CROSS-CONNECTIONS:
Within one year from the effective date hereof, all existing cross-connections
to the water supply systems shall be eliminated. The expenses of such
elimination shall be that of the owner of the property on which such cross-
connection exists. (1988 Code §20.107)
8-3-9: INSPECTION:
The Water Department or any representative thereof shall have the authority to
inspect any premises to determine the presence of an existing cross-connection
and to order the elimination of such cross-connection. (1988 Code §29.107)
8-3-10: DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE:
The Water Department is hereby authorized to discontinue water service after a
reasonable notice to any person owning any property where a cross-connection in
violation of this Code exists. The Water Department may take such other
precautionary measures as necessary to eliminate any danger of the
contamination of the water supply system. Water service to such property shall
not be restored until such cross-connection has been eliminated. (1988 Code
§20.107)
8-3-11: PENALTY:
The City may issue a monetary penalty for noncompliance in accordance with the
provision of the City Code. Applicable fees are provided for in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code § 20.107; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-
1-2023)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Sewer Connection Charges
8-4-3: Sewer Construction Regulations
8-4-4: Sewer Discharge And Connection Requirements
8-4-5: Appeals And Variances
8-4-6: User Charge Established
8-4-7: Discontinuance Of Service
8-4-8: Check Valve Program
8-4-9: Violations And Penalties
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   ADMINISTRATOR: The Regional Administrator of Region V of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen, expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20o) centigrade.
   BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the sanitary discharge from soil, waste and other
drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building
sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called house connection or service connection.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the publicly-owned treatment works was designed to treat such
pollutants and in fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree.
   CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of the wastewater.
   DISSOLVED SOLIDS: That concentration of matter in the sewage consisting of
colloidal and particulate matter one micron in diameter or less, and both
organic and inorganic molecules and ions present in solution.
   FECAL COLIFORM: Organisms common to the intestinal tract of man and animals
whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL PLANT: Any facility which discharges industrial wastes.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INDUSTRY: Any establishment listed in the "Standard Industrial
Classification Manual", latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B,
D, E or I, three (3) copies of which are on file in the City Clerk's office.
   INFILTRATION: The water entering a sewer system and service connections from
the ground, through such means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe
joints, connections or manhole walls. Infiltration does not include, and is
distinguished from, inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW: The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW: The water discharged into a sewer system and service connections
from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar, yard and area
drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharges, drains from sprints and
swampy areas, manhole lids, cross-connections from storm sewers and combined
sewers, catch basins, storm water, surface run-off, street wash waters or
drainage. "Inflow" does not include, and is distinguished from, infiltration.
   INSPECTION MANHOLE: Any accessible manhole that can be used for the purpose
of inspection, sampling and installation of flow meters and not a control
manhole.
   INTERCEPTOR SEWER: A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport wastewater
from collection sewers to a treatment facility or as otherwise defined by the
USEPA.
   MAJOR INDUSTRY: An industrial user that has: a) a flow greater than fifty
thousand (50,000) gpd or more per average work day; or b) has a flow greater
than five percent (5%) of the flow carried by the Municipal system receiving
its waste; or c) has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in a toxic amount as
defined in standards issued under section 307(a) of the Act; or d) is found by
the permit issuance authority in connection with the issuance of an NPDES
permit to the publicly-owned treatment works receiving the waste, to have
significant impact whether singly or in combination with other contributing
industries on that treatment works or upon the quality of effluent from that
treatment works.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l): A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is one one-thousandth (0.001) gram of the
constituent in one thousand (1,000) ml of water. It has replaced the unit
formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is approximately
equivalent in reporting the results of water and wastewater analysis.
   NPDES PERMIT: The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit
that is issued by the USEPA setting the limits on constituents that the
permittee may legally discharge.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE: All household type discharge from places of human
habitation, including sanitary conveniences, kitchen and laundry wastes.
Discharge waste strength shall be considered to average two hundred (200) mg/
l BOD and two hundred fifty (250) mg/l suspended solids at a discharge rate of
one hundred (100) gallons per capita per day. This loading equates to seventeen
one-hundredths (0.17) pounds of BOD and twenty one one-hundredths (0.21) pounds
of suspended solids per capita per day.
pH: The term used to express the intensity of the acid or base condition of a
solution, calculated by taking the logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen
ion concentration. The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams
per liter of solution. Neutral water, for example, has a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7 and a pH value of 7.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT (PE): A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial
or other wastes on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent of
normal domestic sewage is one hundred (100) gallons per day or seventeen one-
hundredths (0.17) pounds of BOD or twenty one one-hundredths (0.21) pounds of
suspended solids. The impact on a treatment works is evaluated as the
equivalent of the highest of the three (3) parameters. Impact on a stream is
the higher of the BOD and suspended solids parameters.
   PRETREATMENT: The treatment of industrial sewage from privately- owned
industrial sources prior to introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-
owned treatment works, in accordance with 40 CFR, part 128.
   SHREDDED GARBAGE: Garbage that has been shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.25
centimeters) in any dimension.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRY: Any industry that will contribute greater than ten
percent (10%) of the design flow and/or design pollutant loading of the
treatment works.
   SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater, which in concentration of any
given constituent or in any quantity of flow which exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the
allowable concentration of flows during a normal working day (i.e., 1, 2 or 3
shift operation) and shall adversely affect the collection system and/or
performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   SURCHARGE: The additional cost over the normal charge for the treatment of
wastewater containing pollutants in excess of the amounts found in normal
domestic sewage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS): Total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids and is removable by laboratory filtration as
prescribed in standard methods.
   TOTAL SOLIDS: The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT (TOXIC POLLUTANT): Concentration of any pollutant or
combination of pollutants which, upon exposure to or assimilation into any
organism, will cause adverse effects, as defined in standards issued pursuant
to section 307(a) or PL 92-500.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water- carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes
required to collect, transport and treat domestic and industrial wastes and
dispose of the effluent and accumulated residual solids. (1988 Code §§
21.101–21.134)
8-4-2: SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES:
   A.   Public Purpose: The public purpose is hereby declared to be to provide
for the collection and disposal of domestic and industrial waste in the manner
provided by law for the area serviced by the City; to provide for the
collection of a fair and reasonable charge, for connection to or additional use
of the Sycamore wastewater treatment facilities in addition to those charges
covered by other revenue known as a connection fee. The funds thus collected
shall be used by the City for its general corporate purposes with primary
application thereof being made for the necessary construction, expansion,
extension, maintenance and operating costs of the wastewater treatment
facilities to meet the requirements of the new users thereof.
   B.   Application for Connection Permit and Inspection: No connection shall
be made to any public sewer and no additional use shall be made of an existing
connection thereto, until an application is properly completed and submitted to
the City. Plans and specifications shall be submitted, when requested, for
approval by the City and the charge paid in full by the applicant to the City
prior to the connection. After a connection has been made pursuant to permit
being issued as herein provided, the construction ditch shall be left open
until the City has been notified of the connection and the Superintendent of
Public Works has inspected and approved the sewer construction and connection.
   C.   Connection Fees And Unit Charges For Sewage Treatment Plant 1 :
      1.   Each applicant for connection to or additional user of such sewers
shall be given credit for the number of units then being served through an
existing public sewer at the time the reconstruction or remodeling of the
building then served and/or to be served is commenced.
      2.   "Outlet" means each washbasin, water closet, urinal, shower or any
similar plumbing fixture and orifice of any machine, vessel or tank of any
kind, manifolded or singly through which waste may flow into the wastewater
facilities.
      3.   For residential occupancy, the connection charge shall be set out in
the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      4.   For all purposes other than residential (except industrial), the
connection charge shall be set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
      5.   For all connections outside the city limits, the connection charge
shall be set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      6.   Any business or manufacturer shall be entitled to a reduction of the
sewer and water connection fees required hereunder, with a maximum allowable
reduction of ninety percent (90%). The reduction shall be based on the
following formula. There shall be a reduction for full time jobs created or
retained as follows: the first five (5) full time jobs created or retained
shall be granted a nine percent (9%) reduction per job, the balance of full
time employees to the maximum of ninety percent (90%) shall be granted a six
percent (6%) reduction per job created or retained. There shall be a reduction
for part time jobs as follows: the first five (5) part time jobs shall be
granted a five percent (5%) reduction per job, the second five (5) part time
jobs created or retained shall be granted a three percent (3%) reduction per
job created. Also there shall be a three percent (3%) reduction per job created
or retained for the first ten (10) jobs created for employees who work between
fifteen (15) to twenty (20) hours per week and/or for any job that is in
cooperation or coordination with the Sycamore High School. For the purpose of
this subsection, "full time" shall be defined as thirty five (35) hours per
week or more, and "part time" shall be defined as twenty (20) to thirty four
(34) hours per week. The person or entity requesting the credit hereunder,
shall certify under oath the estimated number of newly created or retained jobs
for full time or part time employees. If in the event the actual number of jobs
created or retained is not as great as the number estimated, one year from the
date the building occupancy permit is issued, the city shall collect the
balance due from the permit holder.
   D.   Sewer Inspection Fee: Fee shall be provided for in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   E.   Industrial Charges: Applicable fees are provided for in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. The industrial charge for new additional
producers of industrial waste shall be determined as follows:
      1.   The city shall estimate the daily pounds of five (5) day biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD), the daily pounds of suspended solids and the daily flow in
gallons of the wastes of the industry discharged to the city sewer system or
sewers tributary thereto.
      2.   The daily pounds of BOD so estimated shall be multiplied by six (6);
the daily pounds of suspended solids so estimated shall be multiplied by five
(5); the estimated daily gallons of flow shall be divided by one hundred (100),
and these figures shall be averaged to determine the estimated population
equivalent for the industry.
      3.   The estimated population equivalent of the industry determined as
above shall be used to determine the charge for the industry.
      5.   In the case of industry, each charge shall be reviewed by the city
at the end of the first year of operation of said industry and adjusted on the
basis of the annual operation experience and settlement of any additional
charge therefor shall be made within three (3) months thereafter.
   F.   Additional City Fees:
      1.   Basis: To allow for the costs primarily attributable to new and
additional users and because existing facilities were constructed at the
expense of landowners heretofore connected, the following additional fees are
based on:
         a.   Distance from the sewage disposal system; and
         b.   Density use per acre and other reasonable factors.
      2.   Annexation Fee: Except as previously ordained or by contract, any
land outside the city requiring sewer service that is contiguous to the city
must annex to the city. An annexation fee shall be assessed and paid by the
owner or developer of industrial or commercial subdivisions, jointly and
severally, no later than the time that each final plat including real estate
that is a part of the subject property is approved. An annexation fee, with an
allowance for the deduction of retention, park and school dedications or,
alternatively, at the owner or developer's option, shall be assessed and paid
by the owner or developer of residential subdivisions, jointly and severally,
no later than the time that each final plat including real estate that is a
part of the subject property is filed. Those owners or developers who are
already annexed may pay an annexation fee of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
per acre on or before October 7, 2003, with or without a final plat of
subdivision, but shall pay the annexation fees stated above after that date.
For all owners or developers who shall hereafter pay for residential property
currently under development, of the total fee two-thirds (2/3) shall be
deposited in the city's General Fund, one-sixth (1/6) shall be deposited in the
city's Capital Assistance Fund (fund 6) to help offset the impact of new
development on existing city roadways; and one-sixth (1/6) shall be deposited
in the city's Sewer Fund (fund 4) to help offset the cost of maintaining or
expanding the capacity of the city's water treatment facilities and sanitary
sewer infrastructure. This fee shall be effective May 1, 2003. Current fee
pricing is provided for in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   Properties annexed and zoned R-4, Rural Residential will not connect to the
city's Public Water and Sewer Systems. The annexation fee for these properties
shall be set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      3.   Outside City Limits: Land outside the city limits that is not
contiguous and that may request sewer service shall not be annexed and shall
not be connected to the city's sanitary collection or water treatment
facilities.
      4.   Sewers Constructed By City: When main or lateral sewers are
constructed by the city, the city shall be reimbursed for the cost at the rate
as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      5.   Building Sewer Inspection Fee: The fee shall be as set by the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedulepayable at the time of receiving the
permit; however, where a sewer in a subdivision or elsewhere is stubbed inside
the property line, another fee as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule may be assessed; provided, there shall be no inspection fee where the
building sewer service replaced an existing building sewer service.
      6.   Sewer Termination Inspection: See the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee Schedule for applicable fees.
   G.   Revocation Of Permit 1 : The city engineer is hereby authorized and
empowered to revoke a permit issued pursuant to this chapter when it has been
determined that the permittee has violated the connections or provisions of
such permit or of this section.
   H.   Violations And Penalties: Any violation of any of the terms and
provisions of this section is hereby declared by the city council to be a
public nuisance 3 , and punishable as provided in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code §§ 21.201, 21.202, 21.204, 21.205,
21.206; amd. Ord. 89.44, 11-6-1989; Ord. 89.45, 11-6-1989; Ord. 93.10, 6-14-
1993; 1994 Code; Ord. 97.26, 7-7-1997; Ord. 2002.73, 4-7-2003; Ord. 2016.19, 8-
15-2016; Ord. 2019.07, 6-17-2019; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-5-2 of this title for sewer service rates.
1 1. See section
  3-1-13 of this code for revocation procedures.
3 See
  title 4, chapter 3 of this code for nuisance provisions.
8-4-3: SEWER CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Public Purpose: The public purpose of this section is hereby declared
to be that all public sewers, building drains and building sewers tributary to
and/or a part of the wastewater treatment facilities of the city will, in their
construction, operation and expansion, be conducive to the public health,
comfort and convenience.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or
opening into, extend, use, alter or disturb any public sewer without first
obtaining a permit from the City.
      2.   Each sewer which is designed and is to be connected so as to be an
integral part of the sanitary sewer system within the boundaries of the City
shall not be constructed without a permit issued by the City and the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency, as required.
      3.   An Illinois Environmental Protection Agency permit and City permit
is required for construction of all sewers and sewer facilities within the
jurisdiction of the City, whether such construction is on private or public
property. A permit is also required for existing buildings when the use of such
buildings changes to a use requiring a permit. It is the responsibility of the
City Engineer to administer and enforce this Section within the authority
granted by the Council.
   C.   Applicable Rules And Regulations: The rules, regulations, ordinances
and policies listed herein and issued by the authorities indicated are
incorporated herein by reference.
      1.   The City:
         a.   The sewer use ordinance.
         b.   The rules, regulations, resolutions, policies, directives,
standards, specifications, instructions that may be adopted or issued, from
time to time, by the City Council, Mayor or City Engineer and which are on file
as three (3) copies in the City Clerk's office.
      2.   Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendment of 1972 (Public Law
92-500, 33 USC 1251 et seq.).
      3.   The Illinois Pollution Control Board:
         a.   Environmental Protection Act.
         b.   Technical releases and other rules and regulations issued, from
time to time.
      4.   "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois", latest edition, three (3) copies of which shall be on file in the
City Clerk's office.
      5.   "Recommended Standards for Sewage Works", Great Lakes-Upper
Mississippi River Board of State Sanitary Engineers. (Ten State Standards),
latest edition, three (3) copies of which shall be on file in the City Clerk's
office.
   D.   Design Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Design Standard: The design and construction of sanitary
sewers within the jurisdiction of the City shall conform to most restrictive of
the minimum standards contained in subsection C of this Section.
      2.   Design Slopes: Minimum design slopes shall be two percent (2.00%)
for four inch (4") sewers and one percent (1.00%) for six inch (6") sewers with
all other design slopes conforming to the requirements of subsection D1 of this
Section.
      3.   Manholes: Standard manholes shall be located as required in
subsection D1 of this Section, and for industrial building sewers, at the point
of connection to the public sewer system or other place of disposal. For
residential and commercial buildings, the City Engineer shall determine the
frequency and location of other manholes. In all cases, the maximum space
between manholes on a six inch (6") building sewer shall not exceed two hundred
fifty feet (250').
      4.   Curvilinear Sewers: There shall be no curvilinear sewers constructed
within the City.
   E.   Supplemental Design Requirements:
      1.   Plumbing: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in
which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the building
sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an
approved means and discharged to the building sewer. The basement floor shall
be a minimum of three feet (3') above the crown of the receiving sewer for all
gravity service connections.
      2.   Datum: Datum shall be as indicated by the U.S. Geological Survey.
      3.   Connecting Of Building Sewer To Sewer Main:
         a.   Construction of building sewers and connections shall be in
compliance with the terms and provisions of applicable city ordinances.
         b.   No sanitary sewer service from any building or structure shall be
connected to the city's sanitary sewer system in buildings with gravity fed
basement plumbing until the following conditions have been met:
            (1)   All exterior walls are complete and weathertight;
            (2)   All windows and doors are installed, weathertight and secure,
including basement windows; and
            (3)   The building roof is complete and weathertight.
Exception: It will be permitted to connect the sanitary sewer service to the
city's sanitary sewer system after the foundation walls have been installed
prior to completion of subsections E3b(1) through E3b(3) of this section
provided no storm or ground water will be allowed into the city's sanitary
sewer system. In order to ensure that no storm or ground water is allowed into
the sanitary sewer service, it is required that all sewer openings within the
building be positioned or extended to at least thirty six inches (36") above
the lowest floor level or crawl space with solid PVC caps solvent welded in
place.
         c.   In the event it is not known whether adequate grade is available
from the invert elevation of the sanitary sewer service at the building or
structure to the proposed point of connection to the main sewer, the contractor
shall locate and excavate the sanitary service connection which has previously
been extended from the main sewer and shall determine its invert elevation with
respect to the proposed building or structure. However, no connection may be
made until the construction has been completed as described in subsection E3b
of this section.
         d.   Before backfilling any sanitary service, the contractor shall
notify the plumbing inspector or his designee for an inspection to assure
compliance with the foregoing requirements.
         e.   No person shall hereafter connect to any sewer within the
jurisdiction of the city without having first applied for and obtained a sewer
connection permit from the city.
         f.   No construction permit shall be issued unless it has been
determined by the city that there is capacity available in all downstream
sewerage facilities.
         g.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the City, to meet all
requirements of this Section.
         h.   Minimum design standards and other requirements hereof governing
materials, joints, infiltration, workmanship and maintenance for sewer mains
and laterals shall also apply to building sewers. Horizontal and vertical
alignment of the building sewer shall be uniform and shall follow a straight
line alignment. There shall be no dips in the grade or fall in the line. Turns
and bends required for the riser, if any, or necessary to connect to the sewer
wye or tee shall be made with standard bends.
         i.   In those instances where the building sewer is partially
constructed from the sewer lateral or main to a point other than the building
to be served, the pipe shall be tightly plugged using a manufactured plug. The
plug shall be pre-wired by the manufacturer so that it can be firmly secured in
place.
         j.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
         k.   All excavations for a building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and flashing lights to protect the public
from hazard or injury. See the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule for
permit fees and deposits.
         l.   Building sewers shall generally enter the sewer main or lateral
by way of an existing wye or tee. If there is not an existing wye or tee, then
the connection to the sewer main or lateral shall be made by one of the methods
indicated below. If another method is desired, a detail shall be submitted for
review and approval by the City before the connection is made. Indiscriminate
breaking of the sewer pipe is not allowed.
            (1)   Installation of a manhole.
            (2)   Circular saw-cut of sewer main by proper tools ("sewer-tap"
machine or similar) and proper installation of hub wye saddle or hub tee
saddle.
            (3)   Using pipe cutter, neatly and accurately cut out desired
length of pipe for insertion of proper fitting. Use "band-seal" or similar
couplings and shear rings and clamps to fasten the inserted fitting and hold it
firmly in place.
      4.   Extensions of Sewers:
         a.   To provide adequate sewer capacity for possible future
connections, any building sewer to which future construction might possibly
connect will be treated as a sewer extension requiring, at a minimum, an eight
inch (8") diameter pipe.
         b.   Extensions of the lateral system will be constructed so as to
extend to the furthest point of the lot and shall be terminated at a manhole.
      5.   Compliance with Rules and Standards: Before any sewer service shall
be provided to premises either inside or outside the City, the party requesting
said service shall comply with all current rules, regulations, standards,
specifications and ordinances of the City, including provision of all
improvements required therein or otherwise required by the City.
      6.   Cross-Connection Prevention 1 : In order to prevent cross-
connection of water and sewage systems and to ensure City supervision of both
systems, no sewer service shall be provided outside the City unless City water
is also provided.
      7.   City Property: Unless otherwise decided by the City, all sanitary
sewers and water mains, except services, shall become the property of the City.
The City shall have the right to extend lines to serve others without
obligation to the previous developer.
      8.   Infiltration: The maximum allowable infiltration shall in no case
exceed two hundred (200) gallons per inch of diameter per mile of sewer per day
and shall not be exceeded between any two (2) manholes. In addition, an air
test of the same severity shall be required for all sewers.
      9.   Television Inspection: All sewers constructed under City or EPA
permit (8" diameter or larger) shall be subject to closed circuit television
inspection upon completion of the project sewer, witnessed by the
Superintendent.
      10.   Request for Television Inspection: The City shall be notified by
the applicant that the system is completed and properly cleaned and prepared
for televising. Two (2) sets of the plan and profile drawings will be required
by the City for the purpose of preparing the final television report.
      11.   Repairs: All defects in material and/or workmanship noted during
inspection shall be repaired by the contractor before release is granted and
the sewer accepted.
      12.   As-Built Drawings: After final inspection four (4) sets of as-built
drawings, including one mylar copy shall be furnished to the City before final
acceptance by the City.
      13.   Oversize Design: Where required by the City to conform with overall
planning of future connections, any sewer that is required larger than
necessary to serve the immediate property adequately, an agreement may be made
to repay the owner or subdivider the construction cost resulting from the
increased design. Differences in pipe sizes required shall be determined by the
City Engineer. No pipe less than eight inches (8") in diameter shall be laid by
the owner or subdivider. No bids shall be taken or work commenced until such
agreement is arrived at, in writing, with the City.
   F.   Guarantee: Before any construction is begun, or before any permit is
issued under this Chapter, the applicant and any party responsible for said
construction shall provide the City with a certified or cashier's check or a
surety bond approved by the City Engineer in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of the cost of the improvements to assure satisfactory construction,
compliance with all City requirements, compliance with the plans and
specifications and sufficient certificates of insurance that the City will be
held harmless and indemnified from all liabilities arising from the
construction. Until final acceptance of the work, the owner shall be
responsible for all maintenance of improvements.
   G.   Approval: All work required to be done under this Chapter by an
applicant, be he the owner, subdivider or contractors shall be periodically
inspected by and approval obtained from the Superintendent of Public Works in
charge or City Engineer as the work progresses. Before final approval can be
obtained, the superintendent in charge or City Engineer shall inspect all work
and see that same has been completed in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications. (1988 Code §§ 21.301 through 21.305, 21.401 and 21.402; amd.
1994 Code; Ord. 2014.33, 1-20-2015; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Chapter 3 of this Title for cross-connection control regulations.
8-4-4: SEWER DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS 1 :
   A.   Public Purpose: The public purpose of this Section is hereby declared
to be:
      1.   To prevent pollution of the waters of the State.
      2.   To protect, preserve and maintain the facilities of the City by
prohibiting or regulating the discharge to the City's sewerage system of
inadmissible wastes or substances toxic to biological wastewater treatment
processes.
      3.   To render the sewage and effluent of the City harmless insofar as is
reasonably possible to animal, plant and fish life.
      4.   To comply with City, State and Federal water quality standards as
shall, from time to time, be in effect.
      5.   To preserve the public health, comfort and convenience.
   B.   Connection Requirements:
      1.   Outside City Limits: No person shall connect or cause to be
connected any building or facility on any property or any part thereof to any
sewer unless the entire property shall first be situated within the limits of
the City unless previously excepted by special assessment.
      2.   Within City Limits; Connection Required:
         a.   Any person owning property situated within the corporate limits
of the city, which is improved with one (1) or more residences, houses,
buildings or structures, used or intended to be used for human use, occupancy,
employment or any other similar purpose whatever and which property abuts on
any street, alley, or right of way in which there is located a sewer within one
hundred feet (100') from the nearest property line shall, within ninety (90)
days after such sewer is in service, at his expense, install suitable toilet
and waste disposal facilities therein and connect such facilities with the
sewer in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Title; provided,
however, that in the event compliance with this section causes economic
hardship to said person, he may apply to the city for variance from this
Section. Such application shall state in detail the circumstances which are
claimed to cause said economic hardship. Such exemptions shall only be granted
to residential users and shall not apply to commercial and industrial users.
         b.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made
to the sanitary sewer system within sixty (60) days in compliance with this
Title, and any septic tanks, cesspools or similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with a suitable material.
"Available" shall be defined herein to mean within a distance of one hundred
feet (100') from said property.
         c.   Properties zoned R-4, Rural Residential will not be serviced by
City Sewer and thereby exempted from connection requirements. These properties
shall be served by septic systems that are in compliance with the County Health
Department requirements.
   C.   Monitoring Requirements:
      1.   Control Manhole; Sampling: Any connected source, for which the City
has determined it to be necessary because of volume of flow and strength or
characteristics of the waste, will be required to install and maintain a
control manhole or sampling chamber on each line of discharge to measure and
sample the wastewater, at the owner's expense. Permanent, reliable monitoring
equipment shall be installed for all sampling chambers; temporary or portable
equipment shall be installed for all control manholes. Flow measurement shall
be recorded on a twenty four (24) hour/day basis, seven (7) days/week/quarterly
periods. Sampling shall be done as prescribed by the City to insure
representative quantities for the entire reporting period.
      2.   Sample Testing: For each day that the monitoring station is operable
and sampling is required, personnel will pick up the collected samples, read
the flow meter and visually inspect the system. Analyses of the collected
samples will be done by a certified lab at owner's expense. Any samples
obtained shall be made available to City personnel as requested.
      3.   Equipment Breakdowns: During periods of equipment breakdown,
malfunction or any other reason, the highest daily values obtained during the
previous ninety (90) days may be applied to each day not monitored.
      4.   Responsibility for Maintenance: Maintenance of the equipment and
operation of the station will be the sole responsibility of the owner.
   D.   Limitations and Charges:
      1.   The City shall annually determine and declare the user charge and
industrial user surcharge costs for the handling of domestic and nondomestic
pollutants. Table A shall be used to establish the maximum concentration of
pollutants that can be discharged. Table B shall be used to determine the
charges for pollutants which are in excess of those found in normal domestic
wastes.
   TABLE A
POLLUTANT STORET NUMBER MAXIMUM CONCENTRATION ALLOWED (mg/l)
POLLUTANT                       STORET NUMBER MAXIMUM CONCENTRATION ALLOWED
                                              (mg/l)
Ammonia Nitrogen as N           00610         10.00
Arsenic (total)                 01002         0.75
Barium (total)                  01007         6.00
BOD                             00310         200.00
Boron (total)                   01020         3.00
Cadmium (total)                 01027         1.00
Carbon Chloroform Extract (CCE) 32005         200.00
Chloride                        00940         300.00
Chromium (total hexavalent)     01032         1.00
Chromium (total trivalent)      01033         3.00
Copper (total)                  01042         4.60
Cyanide                         00720         0.100 1
Fluoride (total)                00951         15.00
Iron (total)                    01045         6.00
Iron (dissolved)                01046         1.50
Lead (total)                    01051         0.80
Manganese (total)               01055         3.00
Mercury (total)                 71900         0.0005
Nickel (total)                  01067         3.60
Hexane Solubles (total)         00550         100.00
pH                              00400         range 6.00 - 9.00
Phenols                         32730         0.90
Phosphorus as P                 00665         10.00
Selenium (total)                01145         3.00
Silver                          01077         0.30
Sulfate                         00945         300.00
Temperature (oF)                00011         150.00
Zinc (total)                    01092         3.40
Total Suspended Solids          00547         250.00
Total Dissolved Solids          00515         3500.00
 
Total Dissolved Solids (Storet 00515) shall not be increased more than 750 mg/
l above background concentration levels unless caused by recycling or other
pollution abatement practices and in no event shall exceed 3500 mg/l at any
time.
The total concentration of zinc (total), copper (total), nickel (total),
chromium (total hexavalent) and chromium (total trivalent) in combination shall
not exceed 7.5 mg/l.
   TABLE B
 
   POLLUTANT            CONCENTRATION - DOMESTIC     SURCHARGE
                           WASTEWATER
Biochemical Oxygen Demand                           See user charge rate the
(BOD)                         200 mg/l           City of Sycamore
                                                    Consolidated Fee Schedule
                                                    See user charge rate the
Suspended Solids              250 mg/l           City of Sycamore
                                                    Consolidated Fee Schedule
 
      2.   Compliance with the numerical standards listed in Tables A and B
shall be determined on the basis of twenty four (24) hour composite samples
averaged over any consecutive thirty (30) day period. In addition, no more than
five percent (5%) of the samples collected shall exceed two and five-tenths
(2.5) times the numerical limits prescribed in the above tables.
      3.   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes
shall be restricted in discharges to Municipal systems to concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment
processes or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. The City will set limitations lower than the limitations established
in the regulations below if such more severe limitations are necessary to meet
the above objectives. In determining the acceptability of a waste, the City
will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the
wastewater treatment plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the
wastewater treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The limitations or
restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged
to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated are as follows:
         a.   Any wastewater or liquid containing petroleum oils, cutting oils,
gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, products of mineral oil origin or any
other flammable or explosive liquid.
         b.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage
originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers.
         c.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the City for such materials.
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances
exceeding limits which may be established by the City.
         e.   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both, which constitute a
"slug" as defined herein 1 .
         f.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
         g.   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant.
         h.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
         i.   Any waters or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
waste in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   E.   Pretreatment:
      1.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection D of this Section and which have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the City may:
         a.   Reject the waters or wastes.
         b.   Require pretreatment to at least the level of normal domestic
sewage.
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
         d.   Require payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
subsection D of this Section.
      2.   If the City permits or requires the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the City.
      3.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease
in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the City and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captured material.
      4.   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his expense.
   F.   Measurements and Analyses: All measurements, tests and analyses of the
characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this Chapter
shall be determined by using the approved method listed in Table 1 of 40-CFR
136.3 is hereby adopted as the regulation governing all measurements, tests or
analyses of waters and wastes in the City, and it shall be unlawful to perform
any measurements, tests or analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes
in violation of or without complying with, those regulations. Copies of such
regulations shall be kept on file in the City's office for inspection. The
reference books referred to by the Federal Register are as follows:
      1.   Standard Methods: Shall mean "Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association,
latest edition, three (3) copies of which are on file in the City Clerk's
office.
      2.   American Society of Testing Materials: Shall mean "Annual Book
Standards, part 23, Water, Atmospheric Analyses", latest edition, available
from American Society of Testing Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, 19103.
      3.   EPA Methods: Shall mean "Methods for Chemical Analyses of Water
Wastes", EPA, Analytical Quality Control Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio. This
publication available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government
Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402 (Stock #5501-0067).
   G.   Sewer Discharge Permits:
      1.   General Requirements:
         a.   Permit Required: Any connected source, discharging a waste to the
sewerage system which exceeds one or more of the limits set forth in Table A
(subsection D1 hereof) or which discharges twenty five thousand (25,000)
gallons or more per day, is required to obtain a sewer discharge permit.
         b.   Required Materials: Any connected source which is required to
obtain a sewer discharge permit will, along with the completed application
form, furnish the City with plans, specifications for treatment works,
summaries of design criteria and any other information as the City may
reasonably require in order to determine that the discharge or proposed
discharge will be in compliance with all applicable requirements.
         c.   Fee: There shall be no fee for sewer discharge permits.
         d.   Application: An applicant for a sewer discharge permit shall file
an application in accordance with subsection G2 hereof, on forms provided by
the City. Such forms shall comprise the sewer discharge application forms
promulgated by the City for the type of discharge for which a sewer discharge
permit is being sought and such additional information as the City may
reasonably require.
      2.   Application:
         a.   All applications for a sewer discharge permit, as required in
subsection G1 above shall contain, where appropriate, the following information
and documents:
            (1)   A complete description of the volume and nature of the
wastewater to be treated, transported or discharged, including a statement as
to presence or absence of all pollutants for which discharge water quality
standards are set by this Section.
            (2)   A statement as to any projected changes in the volume or
nature of the wastewater which the applicant desires to have included within
the terms of the permit.
            (3)   A description of the geographic location of the facility of
source and its interrelation with any existing treatment works, sewer or
wastewater source which will transport, treat or discharge the same wastewater.
            (4)   Plans and specifications fully describing the design, nature,
function and interrelationship of each individual component of the facility or
source; except, that the City may waive this requirement for plans and
specifications when the application is for a routine renewal.
            (5)   A statement identifying and justifying any departure from
current design criteria promulgated by the City.
         b.   The City may adopt procedures requiring such additional
information as is necessary to determine whether the wastewater source will
meet the requirements of this Chapter.
         c.   The City may prescribe the form in which all information required
under this Section shall be submitted.
         d.   Any source required under this Section to have a permit must file
an application with the City at least ninety (90) days before the date on which
the permit is required.
         e.   The City shall send written notice of final action taken.
      3.   Duration of Permits:
         a.   Sewer discharge permits shall be issued for a period of three (3)
years commencing on the first day after the applicant has been notified of
permit issuance.
         b.   The City shall annually review each permit and may issue
automatic renewal permits to those permittees whose wastes and operations have
not significantly changed from the time of the original permit.
      4.   Tentative Determination and Draft Permit:
         a.   Following the receipt of a completed application for a sewer
discharge permit, the City shall prepare a tentative determination. Such
determination shall include at least the following:
            (1)   A statement regarding whether a sewer discharge permit is to
be issued or denied.
            (2)   If the determination is to issue the permit, a draft permit
containing the following shall be prepared:
               (A) Proposed effluent limitations, consistent with City
requirements.
               (B) A proposed schedule of compliance, if the applicant is not
in compliance with applicable requirements including interim dates and
requirements for meeting the proposed effluent limitations.
               (C) A brief description of other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge.
               (D) A statement of the basis for each of the permit conditions
listed in this subsection
8-4-4G4a(2).
               (E) If the determination is to deny the permit, the City shall
notify the applicant, in writing, of the tentative determination. Such notice
shall include a statement for the reason(s) of denial.
               (F) A grant of a variance by the City may set forth such
conditions, exceptions, time limitations, durations and expirations as the City
Engineer deems necessary and proper.
      5.   Permit Renewal: Any permittee who wishes to continue to discharge
after the expiration date of his sewer discharge permit shall apply for re-
issuance of the permit not less than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration
date of the permit. Prior to renewal, the City shall determine:
         a.   That the permittee is in compliance with or has substantially
complied with all terms, conditions, requirements and schedules of compliance
of the expiring sewer discharge permit.
         b.   That the City has up-to-date information on the permittee's waste
treatment practices, the nature, contents and frequency of the permittee's
discharge, either pursuant to the submission of new forms and applications or
pursuant to monitoring records and reports submitted to the City by the
permittee.
         c.   That the discharge is consistent with applicable standards and
requirements during the term of the permit.
      6.   Authority to Deny Permits: No sewer discharge permit may be issued
in any case in which:
         a.   The permit would authorize the discharge of a radiological,
chemical or biological warfare agent or high level radioactive waste.
         b.   The proposed permit is objected to, in writing, by the
Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to any right
to object given to the Administrator under section 402(d) of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Administration.
         c.   The applicant has not provided proof to the City that he will
meet any of the schedules of compliance which may be established in accordance
with this Chapter as a condition of his permit.
         d.   Any applicant whose discharge of material to the sewer system,
whether shown upon the application or determined after inspection and testing
by the City, is not in conformance with Federal, State or City laws, ordinances
or rules and regulations unless a variance of such standards and requirements
is granted by the City. The City Engineer shall state the reason for denial or
requirement for variance, in writing, mailed or personally delivered to the
applicant within five (5) days after denial.
   H.   Access to Facilities and Further Information: If the City determines
that either further information or a site visit is necessary for the City to
evaluate a sewer discharge permit application, it shall notify the applicant
and make arrangements to secure the additional information or make a site
visit. If adequate information is not received within the period of time
specified by the City, the permit shall either be issued on the basis of the
information currently before the City or be denied, and the applicant so
notified. (1988 Code §§ 21.501, 21.502, 21.503, 21.504, 21.505, 21.506, 21.507,
21.508; amd. Ord. 2019.07, 6-17-2019; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
 
Notes
  1. See subsection
1 4-3-1R of this Code where failure to connect with the sanitary sewer is
  declared a nuisance.
1 1. See rule 703 Cyanide of chapter 3, Water Pollution of the Illinois
  Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations.
1 1. See Section
  8-4-1 of this Chapter for definition of terms.
8-4-5: APPEALS AND VARIANCES:
   A.   Right to Appeal: Any interested party shall have the right to request,
in writing, an interpretation or ruling on any matter covered by this Chapter
and shall be entitled to a written reply from the City. (1988 Code § 21.601)
   B.   Petition for Appeal: Any decision of the City Engineer in the
enforcement of this Chapter may be appealed or a request for a variance
therefrom made to the Board of Zoning Appeals 1  by filing a written petition
with the Clerk of the City within thirty (30) days of the City Engineer's
ruling. Said petition shall specify in detail the matter or matters involved
and the hardship or practical difficulty causing the need for variance. The
filing of a petition in accordance with the requirements herein shall stay all
proceedings unless the City Engineer shall file, within seventy two (72) hours
after the filing of a petition, a certificate stating that a stay would cause
peril to life or property or specifying other good reason. (1988 Code § 21.602)
   C.   Hearing Time: The City Council shall direct the Board of Zoning Appeals
to fix a reasonable time for hearing of the petition or appeal and give due
notice of the time and place of said hearing to parties named in the petition
as attorney or spokesman. (1988 Code § 21.603)
   D.   Public Hearing: The hearing shall be open to the public. Petitioners
shall be given full opportunity to present evidence in support of their
petition after which the City Engineer may present evidence in support of his
decision. (1988 Code § 21.604)
   E.   Granting or Denial: The Board of Zoning Appeals shall recommend the
granting or denial of the appeal or variance to the City Council in the manner
provided by law 2 . (1988 Code § 21.605)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 2 of this Code.
2 2. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3.
8-4-6: USER CHARGE ESTABLISHED 3 :
   A.   Declaration of Policy: It is hereby declared to be the policy of the
City to adhere to the requirements of title 40 - Protection of the Environment,
chapter 1 - Environmental Protection Agency, sub-chapter B - Grants, part 35 -
State and Local Assistance, Final Grant Regulation, section 35.925-11 effective
February 1974, issued pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, or such requirements as amended, from time to time.
References to section 35 hereinafter refer to the appropriate subsection of
these Federal requirements. (1988 Code § 21.701)
   B.   Definitions:
      1.   The definitions set forth in subsection 35.905 of the aforesaid
Federal Regulations, a copy of which is hereby incorporated herein and
specifically included as further definitions of the terms used in this Section.
"User charge", for the purpose of this Section, shall be the user charge
established by this Chapter as defined in section 35.905-26. It shall be deemed
that there is no duplication of charges made hereunder or any charges made
under any other ordinances of the City which may coincidentally refer to the
term "user charge". The charges assessed hereunder are specifically a
substitute for that portion of ad valorem tax revenue previously used for
operation, maintenance and replacement as provided by the Federal Regulations
and the Comptroller General's interpretation thereof.
      2.   The following definitions shall apply for this Section:
   BOD (denoting biochemical oxygen demand): That amount of oxygen expressed in
milligrams per liter utilized in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20o) Celsius
for biochemical oxidation of the organic matter present in wastewater.
   CITY: The City of Sycamore and all territory within the perimeter of the
City's service and jurisdictional boundaries.
   COMPOSITE 24-HOUR SAMPLER: A sampling device, approved by the City, capable
of being installed in a sampling manhole and capable of taking flow
proportioned wastewater samples over a continuous twenty four (24) hour period.
   FLAT RATE ESTIMATES: The water estimated to be used, or to have been used,
by a structure not equipped with a water meter. Such estimate shall be based
upon the City's analysis of comparable structures with similar uses and similar
number of occupants.
   FLOW METER: A fluid measuring device approved by the City capable of being
installed in a sampling manhole and capable of registering continuous flow
rates over a seven (7) day period.
   INDUSTRIAL USER: Any nongovernmental, nonresidential user of publicly-owned
treatment works which discharges more than the equivalent of twenty five
thousand (25,000) gallons per day of sanitary wastes and which is identified in
the "Standard Industrial Classification Manual", most recent edition, Office of
Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented under one of the following
divisions:
   A.   Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing
   B.   Mining
   C.   Manufacturing
   D.   Transportation, Communication, Electric, Gas and Sanitary Services
   E.   Service
   INFILTRATION: Extraneous waters entering a sewer system.
   INFLOW: Extraneous waters discharged into a sewer system.
   MAINTENANCE: All manner of activity necessary, including labor, supplies,
contract repair work and administrative requirements to maintain the works
assets and property of the City for the purpose of insuring its continued and
uninterrupted operation.
   NONINDUSTRIAL USER: All users not specifically defined as industrial users.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE: All household-type wastes discharged from places of
human habitation, including sanitary conveniences, kitchen and laundry wastes.
Discharge waste strength shall be considered to average two hundred (200) mg/
l BOD and two hundred fifty (250) mg/l suspended solids at a discharge rate of
one hundred (100) gallons per capita per day. This loading equates to seventeen
one-hundredths (0.17) pounds of BOD and twenty one one- hundredths (0.21)
pounds of suspended solids per capita per day.
   OPERATION: All manner of activity necessary including labor, electrical
power, fuel chemicals, supplies and administrative requirements properly to
conduct the functions of collection, conveyance, treatment and disposal of
wastewaters generated within the City.
   PRIVATE WATER METER: An existing water meter or a meter required to be
installed by this Section on any privately-owned water supply.
   PUBLIC WATER METER: The water meter installed within the water piping system
of any building by a municipality as defined in section 35.905-14 having
jurisdiction over water supplies.
   REPLACEMENT: The provision for and the installation of replacement
equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service
life of the works of the system to maintain the capacity and performance for
which such works were designed and constructed.
   SAMPLING MANHOLE: A structure, at least four feet (4') in diameter,
installed in the building service line accessible to City personnel and being
capable of housing a flow meter and a composite twenty four (24) hour sampler.
The construction of such a manhole shall be approved by the City.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Filterable solids expressed in milligrams per liter,
contained in wastewater.
   USEFUL or SERVICE LIFE: The period of time that a particular component of
the works of the system can reasonably be expected to perform the function
intended in its design before replacement or extensive rehabilitation is
required.
   WORKS OF THE SYSTEM: All interceptor sewers of the City as defined in
section 35.905-12; sewage collection system of the City as defined in section
35.905-19 and treatment works of the City as defined in section 35.905-23.
   C.   System Established: After the (fiscal year) tax levy year, the City
shall discontinue levying any ad valorem tax historically used for the
operation, maintenance and replacement of the works of the system, and in lieu
thereof shall assess to all users in accordance with the provisions set forth
below, a user charge.
   D.   Method of Procedure Established: The City Council shall continue under
the applicable State statutes to follow the levy procedures for the revenue
necessary for the retirement of general obligation bond principal and interest
payments, public benefit funds and for any other purpose provided by law not
related to the operation, maintenance and replacement of the works of the
system. Similarly, connection charges shall continue to be assessed in the
manner provided or to be provided for in the ordinances of the City, as shall
all other rates, charges and fees of the City heretofore or hereafter
established by the City. This Chapter shall not affect the power of the City in
respect to special assessments.
   E.   Anticipated Costs; Operation, Maintenance and Replacement:
      1.   Prior to the close of each fiscal year, the City, through its
employees and staff, shall prepare an estimate of anticipated costs of
operation, maintenance and replacement and renewals of real and personal
property. Such estimate of anticipated costs shall be prepared in accordance
with and based upon generally accepted accounting principles. The initial
estimate of anticipated costs shall be based upon the prior year's costs of
operation, maintenance and replacement, and the initial charge shall be fixed
by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      2.   The estimate of anticipated costs shall be submitted to the City
Council and shall be considered and amended, if necessary, and shall be adopted
by the City Council for the subsequent year by ordinance.
   F.   Use Base: There shall be submitted to the City Council, simultaneously
with the estimate of anticipated costs, the individual components and summary
total of the following parameters determined from data recorded during the
previous fiscal year:
      1.   The component quantities and totals of yearly water use obtained
from public water meter readings and flat rate estimates.
      2.   The component quantities and totals of the yearly water use obtained
from private water meter readings.
      3.   The yearly infiltration and inflow quantities received by the works
of the system and processed through the wastewater treatment facilities.
      4.   The "total waste discharge" to the works of the system (and
percentage of total) obtained by adding the quantities determined in
subsections F1 and F2 above.
      5.   The yearly total quantities of BOD and suspended solids received by
the works of the system and processed through the wastewater treatment
facilities.
   G.   Declaration of Costs: Not less than biennially, the City Council shall
determine and declare for purposes of adopting or amending the user charge
rates 1 , the following:
      1.   The projected yearly cost of operation, maintenance and replacement
of the proportion of the works of the system attributable to wastewater volume
(flow).
      2.   The projected yearly costs of operation, maintenance and replacement
of the proportion of the works of the system attributable to BOD and suspended
solids (strength).
   H.   Declaration of Use:
      1.   Not less than biennially, the City Council shall determine and
declare for purposes of adopting or amending the user charge rates, the "use
based on volume" (and percentage of total thereof) obtained by the addition of
the total wastes discharged as determined in subsection F4 above.
      2.   Similarly, the City Council shall determine and declare the "use
based on strength" (and percentage of total thereof) obtained by multiplying
the yearly total quantities of BOD and suspended solids (determined in
subsection F5 above) by the percentage of "total wastewater discharged"
(determined in subsection F4 above).
   I.   Declaration of Cost Distribution:
      1.   Not less than biennially, the City Council shall determine and
declare for purposes of adopting or amending the user charge rates, the
distribution of costs obtained by multiplying the waste flow-related costs
determined in subsection G1 above by the percentage of "use based on volume"
for each category as determined in subsection H1 above.
      2.   Similarly, the City shall determine and declare the distribution of
costs obtained by multiplying the waste strength- related costs determined in
subsection G2 above by the percentage of "use based on strength" for each
category as determined in subsection H2 above.
      3.   The sum of the costs obtained in subsections I1 and I2 above shall
constitute the "total operation, maintenance and replacement cost" for the
forthcoming fiscal year and shall be declared as such by the City Council in
the user charge rate ordinance.
   J.   User Rates, Unit Costs: Not less than annually, the City Council shall
further determine the user charge cost per unit of measurement applicable to
each user as follows:
      1.   The user charge unit costs shall be calculated by dividing the
yearly "total operation, maintenance and replacement costs" (determined in
subsection I3 above) by the "total water used" (the sum of subsections F1 and
F2 above) and shall be expressed in dollars per one thousand gallons ($/1,000
gal.) of water use.
      2.   Application of the rates determined in subsection J1 above shall be
based on the assumption that wastes discharged by an individual user shall
have, as a minimum, the characteristics of normal domestic sewage (see
definitions, subsection B), thereby precluding "negative" or less than base
charges for weak strength wastes.
      3.   If the new rate or rates determined in subsection J1 above are
different from the then current rate(s), the City Council shall amend the user
charge rates by rescinding the applicable current rate(s) and establishing the
new rate(s).
   K.   Surveillance and Accounting: Under the provisions of this Section and
the applicable provisions contained within this Chapter, the City shall:
      1.   Exclude certain industrial contaminants or wastes from the works of
the system.
      2.   Require industrial waste pretreatment where necessary.
      3.   Establish permits with industries to control discharges limited by
the City's National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit(s).
      4.   Establish permits with industries to maintain discharge controls.
      5.   Verify industrial waste data furnished by industries.
   L.   Installation Of Sampling Manholes, Flow Meters And Composite Twenty
Four Hour Samplers: After the effective date hereof, each industrial user and
certain commercial users, where required by the City and within ninety (90)
days of notice, shall install a sampling manhole and/or sampling station
complete with flow meter and composite 24-hour sampler on each building service
line so designated by the City.
   M.   Installation Of Water Meters On Private Supplies:
      1.   Within ninety (90) days after the effective date hereof, all
nonindustrial users, other than single-family residences, not having a water
meter in their source of water supply shall be required to install and
maintain, at their own expense, a water meter approved by the City between the
well and/or other source of supply and the plumbing system of such building.
      2.   Any single-family user on a flat-rate charge may, at his own
expense, install and maintain a water meter approved by the City and thereafter
shall be charged on the basis of the meter and not the flat rate. (1988 Code
§21.713)
   N.   Termination Procedures: In the event that any person or other legal
entity who occupies or owns a residence or other building which is connected to
sewers that are tributary to the works of the system and is either within the
City or within contiguous territory not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles
beyond the corporate limits of the City and not included in any other
municipality (the "user") fails to pay the user charges as assessed under this
Section of the City Code, the user shall be disconnected pursuant to the
following procedure:
      1.   Notice Of Delinquency 1 : In the event that the user charge remains
unpaid for a period of sixty (60) days, after having been billed in accordance
with this Section, the following notice shall be served on the occupant(s) or
owner(s) of record by forwarding by registered mail, return receipt requested,
by certified mail, or by personal service at the address of the building being
served by the City or address of the owners of record or by posting on the main
entry door of the building or housing unit within a building:
   NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY
You are hereby notified that the sewer user charges billed to you under date of
(insert date) under the User Charge Ordinance of the City of Sycamore for the
building located at (insert address) have not been paid and remain delinquent.
In the event that you fail to pay said sewer user charges within thirty (30)
days hereafter, your service will be disconnected and your building may be red-
tagged as unfit for human occupancy on the thirty-fifth (35th) day after the
date of this notice.
 
Dated:                             CITY OF SYCAMORE, ILLINOIS
 
   BY:                                      
   Authorized Representative
      2.   Notice Of Disconnection Date And Opportunity For Hearing:
         a.   In the event that the user has failed or refused to pay a sewer
user charge which is due and owing on the thirtieth day after the notice
required in subsection N1 above was served, the following notice shall be
served on the occupants or owners of record by forwarding by registered mail,
return receipt requested, by certified mail, or by personal service at the
address of the building being served by the City or address of the owners of
record or by posting on the main entry door of the building or housing unit
within a building:
   NOTICE OF DISCONNECTION DATE AND OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING
 
You are hereby notified that there has been no response to the Notice of
Delinquency and the sewer user charge remains unpaid thirty (30) days after the
date of service. You are further hereby notified that on (insert date five days
after service of this Notice) that the City will physically disconnect the
sewer system of your building from the lateral sewer system to which it is
connected and may red-tag, or request the authority having jurisdiction to red-
tag, the building located at (insert address) as "unfit for human occupancy".
 
You are further notified that you may request a hearing before the Chairperson
of the Sewer and Water Committee of the City Council at which time you may act
to show good cause for your failure or refusal to pay the user charges which
were due and owing and good cause for not disconnecting your sewer service as
provided above. If you disagree with the result of the hearing before the
Chairperson of the Sewer and Water Committee of the City Council, that decision
may be appealed to the Zoning Appeals Board by filing a written notice of
appeal with the City Clerk within five (5) days after you are notified of the
Superintendent's decision and the Zoning Board of Appeals shall proceed in
accordance with 13.05 of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Sycamore,
Illinois, as amended.
 
Dated:                             CITY OF SYCAMORE, ILLINOIS
 
   BY:                                      
   Authorized Representative
      3.   Hearing And Disconnection:
         a.   In the event that the user does not request a hearing and fails
or refuses to pay the user charges as assessed under this Section of this Code,
the City shall physically disconnect the sewer system of the user's building on
or after the date specified in the Notice of Disconnection Date and Opportunity
For Hearing.
         b.   In the event the user requests a hearing, the chairperson of the
Sewer and Water Committee of the City Council shall notify the user in writing
of the date, time, and place for the hearing at which time the user may act to
show good cause for the failure or refusal to pay the user charges which were
due and owing and good cause for not disconnecting the user's sewer service as
provided above. The said chairperson shall promptly issue a decision on the
issue of good cause.
         c.   If the user disagrees with the result of the hearing before the
said chairperson, the user may appeal that decision to the Zoning Appeals Board
by filing a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within five (5) days
after notification of the said chairperson's decision and the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall proceed in accordance with 13.05 of the Zoning Ordinance of the
City of Sycamore, Illinois, as amended.
         d.   If the user fails or refuses to comply with the decision of the
said chairperson which is not appealed or the decision of the Zoning Board of
Appeals if an appeal is taken within seven (7) days after notification of the
decision, the City shall act promptly to disconnect the sewer system of the
user's building.
         e.   The City shall not be responsible for any costs or expenses to
restore the user's property or for restoration to adjoining rights of way or
property, after disconnecting the user's sewer service. The costs to the City
for labor, materials and service for City supervision to disconnect a user's
sewer service shall be an additional sewer user charge. Upon completion of said
disconnection, the City shall forward to the owner(s) or occupant(s) of record
of the building by registered mail, return receipt requested, certified mail or
personal service a bill for the costs to the City for labor, materials and
service charges for City supervision.
      4.   Reinstatement Of Service: In the event of severance of service, the
service may be reinstated upon payment to the City of the full user-charge
delinquency, plus the service charges and the cost to the City of the
disconnection of the building service line to the works of the system. Such
reconnection cost, plus inspection fees for the City in accordance with City
ordinances, shall be at the sole expense of the user. Applicable fees are
provided for in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   O.   Inspection And Meter Reading On Private Property:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, the City shall have the
right to enter upon private property to take water meter readings and to take
flow meter readings and composite samples from meters and samplers installed
therein.
      2.   In the event of a refusal to permit City personnel upon private
property, they shall seek the assistance of the Police Department and shall
make the inspection accompanied by such officer. Failure to permit such meter
readings to be made shall constitute grounds for termination of service.
   P.   User-Charge Rate Amendments 4 : The City Council may at any time amend
and increase any aforesaid charges to provide additional revenue to defer costs
not known or anticipated at the time of preparation of the latest estimate of
anticipated costs; except, however, if at such time as the Council has
determined that funds allocated in the latest estimate of anticipated costs
will not be expended for items originally intended, either in full or in part,
the unexpended funds may be allocated to the new or increased cost to the
extent possible before increasing the charges theretofore established. User-
charge rate ordinance amendments shall be implemented and reflected in the next
subsequent billing. (1988 Code §§ 21.701 through 21.713, 21.716 and 21.717;
amd. Ord. 95.76, 3-4-1996; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
 
Notes
3 3. See Section
  8-5-2 of this Title for user charge rates.
1 1. See Section
  8-5-2 of this Title for user charge rates.
1 1. See Section
  8-5-3 of this Title for billing procedures.
4 1. See Section
   8-5-2 of this Title for user charge rates.
8-4-7: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Responsibility: Whereas it has become a burden involving considerable
time and effort on the part of the City personnel to accomplish compliance in
certain cases where water service must be terminated, the burden will now be
placed upon the responsible party to pay for and expedite the required
termination in that if an existing water service pipe will no longer be used
for any reason or will not be used for a period in excess of six (6) months, it
shall be the responsibility of the owner to terminate this line. Termination
shall be made by excavating at or as near as practical to the property line,
cutting off the pipe, insertion of an expansion-type plug or other approved
plug and then encasement of this end in concrete.
   B.   Permanent Removal Or Demolition: In the case of discontinuance due to
removal from the site or demolition of a building, the service line must be
properly terminated prior to removal or demolition and in keeping with this
requirement, a permit for removal or demolition shall not be issued until
proper verification of this termination has been made.
   C.   Termination In Conjunction With New Service:
      1.   In the case of a service replacement with a new tap at the main, a
cash deposit as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule shall be
paid to the City Clerk. From this deposit shall be deducted any expense
incurred by the City for completion of this work. This termination must be done
on the same day as the installation of the new service or the City will
contract with an independent contractor of their choosing for the completion of
this work.
      2.   After proper termination has been verified by inspection, the
balance of the deposit shall be returned to the applicant, without interest.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this Section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule. (Ord. 89.57, 12-4-1989; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
8-4-8: CHECK VALVE PROGRAM:
   A.   Applications for the check valve program, as prescribed in subsection I
of this Section, are available and will be received at the Sycamore Building
Department office from property owners interested in placement of a sanitary
sewer check valve in their building drain. Check valves will be installed as a
result of adverse effects of the environment. This work shall be performed in
accordance with City ordinances and specifications.
   B.   Before any participation under this program is permitted, the City must
first determine that a check valve is warranted (areas that have experienced
backup from surcharging of sewer mains). After this is determined, the
homeowner must make application with the Building Department for the
installation. The device used must be approved by the City and it must be
installed by a licensed contractor or homeowner within a ninety (90) day
period. After the device has been installed and inspected by the City, the
property owner will be reimbursed at the rates in subsection D of this Section.
   C.   At the time of installation the check valve shall be installed within
the building as close as possible to the point of entry into the building. If
an interior footing tile connects to the sanitary sewer, it must be
disconnected at this time.
   D.   The City will share in the cost to the property owner for work to
complete the installation of a check valve in the building drain. The City
shall reimburse all eligible property owners one hundred thirty five dollars
($135.00) toward the cost of each required check valve that is installed within
property in Sycamore, Illinois. For installations that have a footing tile
disconnected from the building, an additional three hundred dollars ($300.00)
shall be paid by the City.
   E.   The City states that participation in this program does not warrant or
guarantee the effectiveness of the check valve device or warrant or guarantee
that damage from water of flooding will not occur as a result of its
installation and the City disclaims and does not provide any warranties,
express or implied, specifically including the implied warranties of fitness
for specific purpose and merchanability, concerning the check valve device, its
installation or its effectiveness in preventing water from entering a home or
other structure. The City further advises the homeowner that the check valve
device must be inspected periodically and cleaned, if necessary. The owner
further recognizes that when the check valve is closed due to back pressure,
none of the drains within the building will be able to function as they
normally would.
   F.   The property owner shall sign the permit application.
   G.   Any and all permit fees for this work shall be waived.
   H.   All work shall be completed ninety (90) days after the permit is
obtained.
   I.   The application for the check valve program shall be in the following
form:
Name of property owner:
                                                              
Address of property owner:
                                                           
                                                           
                                                           
Location of property:
                                                           
Installer:                                                            
Size of building drain               Type of pipe
                                   
Signature of property owner:
                                                         
Date:                Phone Number:
                                                   
* * * * * * * * * * * * * To Be Completed By the City * * * * * * * * * * * * *
Check Valve Approved:           Footing Tile Approved:                       
Reimbursement Total $           By:                 Date:
                        
The City states, and the homeowner acknowledges, that participation in this
program does not warrant or guarantee the effectiveness of the check valve
device or warrant or guarantee that damage from water of flooding will not
occur as a result of it installation and the City disclaims and does not
provide any warranties, express or implied, specifically including the implied
warranties of fitness for specific purpose and merchanability, concerning the
check valve device, its installation or its effectiveness in preventing water
from entering a home or other structure. The City further advises the homeowner
that the check valve device must be inspected periodically and cleaned, if
necessary.
(Ord. 96.52, 9-30-1996)
8-4-9: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations And Penalties: Unless otherwise provided, any person
violating or failing to comply with any of the terms or provisions of this
Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
   B.   Prosecution: The Attorney for the City is hereby authorized and
empowered to institute and prosecute any and all proceedings, suits and actions
necessary to collect any and all fines and penalties herein provided for and is
also hereby authorized and empowered to institute and prosecute any and all
suits at law or in equity as may be appropriate or necessary to prevent
unlawful connections to the City wastewater treatment facilities in violation
of the provisions of this Chapter. (1988 Code § 21.901; amd. 1994 Code; Ord.
96.52, 9-30-1996; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 5
WATER AND SEWER RATES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Water Rates
8-5-2: Sewer Rates
8-5-3: Billing And Collection Procedures
8-5-1: WATER RATES:
There shall be and there is hereby services supplied by the municipal
waterworks system of the city, based upon meter readings of the amount of water
consumed as follows:
As used in this section, "unit" is equal to one hundred (100) cubic feet of
water.
   A.   Water rates shall be as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
   B.   Estimated Bills:
      1.   In the event that a residence has no outside recorder and a
representative of the Water Department is unable to gain access to read the
inside meter, the City reserves the right to submit an estimated reading and
bill accordingly.
      2.    Not more than one estimated bill will be permitted in one year, and
upon no reading of the meter being made available for the second billing
period, there shall be added a twenty percent (20%) fee for the administrative
cost of estimating in order to bill the residence. Said twenty percent (20%)
fee will continue to be added to each successive billing until a true meter
reading is made available.
   C.   Radium Treatment Fee: Fee can be found in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   D.   Water Infrastructure Improvement Fee: Fee can be found in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2022.28, 3-20-2023; amd. Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
8-5-2: SEWER RATES:
There shall be and there is hereby established a "user charge rate" for use of
the Municipal sewerage system of the City based upon the amount of water
consumed, to cover the operation, maintenance and replacement costs, debt
service and a portion of the capital improvement costs as follows: (Ord. 98.60,
12-7-1998)
   A.   Rates: The user rates can be found in Fee can be found in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      1.   Pollutant Surcharges: The surcharge for pollutants which are in
excess of those found in normal domestic wastes can be found in Fee can be
found in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      2.   Rates Outside City Limits: In order to cover operation and
maintenance expenses for the sewer system, bond retirements for improvements
and interest for improvements to sewage plant and pumping station and clerical,
office and similar expenses, as well as the generally greater distance from the
sewage disposal system of such users, all rates shall be increased fifty
percent (50%) if service is outside the corporate limits.
   B.   Notice Of Rates: The user of wastewater treatment services will be
notified annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that
portion of the user charges which are attributable to the wastewater treatment
operation, maintenance and replacement. (Ord. 98.60, 12-7-1998; amd. Ord.
2012.47, 3-4-2013; Ord. 2014.36, 2-16-2015; Ord. 2018.25, 4-15-2019, eff. 5-1-
2019; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
8-5-3: BILLING AND COLLECTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Collection Of Bills: It is hereby made the duty of the Water Department
of the City to render bills for water and sewerage service, or either of them,
and all other charges in connection therewith, and to collect all monies due
thereon.
   B.   Liability For Bills: The owner of the premises and the occupant thereof
and the user of either water or sewerage service, or both water and sewerage
service, shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service on said
premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the City only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the service,
are jointly and severally liable therefor to the City.
   C.   Due Dates: Bills shall be rendered every two (2) months or six (6)
times per year and shall be payable within fifteen (15) days after the date
thereof, without a discount, and such bills shall be forwarded to the owner of
said premises.
   D.   Delinquencies:
      1.   Delinquent Charges: If the charges for water and sewerage services,
or either of them, are not paid within fifteen (15) days after the rendition of
the bill for such services, a charge shall be added thereto for the City’s
added costs due to delayed payment and thereupon said total charges shall
become immediately due and payable, and if not paid within an additional
fifteen (15) days, the water and sewage service, or either of them, shall be
discontinued after notice to the owner or occupant of the premises receiving
service. Applicable fees are provided for in the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee Schedule. Provided, that said owner or occupant may request a hearing with
the City Manager prior to discontinuance and the City Manager shall have the
sole discretion to rescind or delay said discontinuance.
      2.   Lien: In the event said rates or charges for water and sewerage
service, or either of them, and the penalties due thereon are not paid within
the period aforementioned, such charges, together with penalties, shall be
deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent and thereafter such
delinquencies shall constitute liens upon the real estate for which such
services are supplied, and the City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to
file sworn statements showing such delinquencies in the Office of the Recorder
of Deeds in DeKalb County, and the filing of such statements shall be deemed
noticed for the payment of such charges and penalties for such services.
      3.   Civil Action: In addition to any other method of collection as
herein provided or as is provided by law, the City shall also have the power,
from time to time, to sue the occupant or user of the real estate involved in a
civil action to recover money due for sewerage services plus a reasonable
attorney fee to be fixed by the court.
      4.   Termination: In the event that any user fails to pay the billed
charge for thirty (30) days after the due date, the City may proceed to
terminate service and serve termination notice upon such user as provided in
subsection
 8-4-6N of this title.
   E.   Reinstatement Charge: In the event of discontinuance, services shall
not, however, be reinstated until all past due charges of any sort are paid in
full, together with an additional charge as set by the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule for the cost of reinstatement.
   F.   Revenues:
      1.   Delivery To City's Chief Financial Officer: All revenues and monies
derived from the operation of the combined water system and sewerage system
shall be held separate and apart from all other funds of the City, and all of
said sums, without any deductions whatsoever, shall be delivered to the City's
Chief Financial Officer or an authorized representative not more than three (3)
days after the receipt of the same or at such more frequent intervals as may,
from time to time, be directed by the City Council.
      2.   Water Fund And Sewerage Fund: The City's Chief Financial Officer or
an authorized representative shall receive all such revenues from the water
system and sewerage system and all other funds and monies incident to the
operation of the systems, as the same may be delivered to him, and deposit the
same in a separate fund designated as the "Water Fund" and the "Sewerage Fund"
of the City and he shall administer the funds in every respect in the manner
provided by statute 1 .
      3.   Accounts: The City's Chief Financial Officer or authorized
representative shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep
proper books, records and accounts, in which complete and correct entries shall
be made of all transactions relative to the water system and sewerage system.
The adequacy of the water service charge and the sewerage service charge shall
be reviewed, not less frequently than annually, by the certified public
accountants for the City in their annual audit report. The water service charge
and sewerage service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect a change
in local capital costs or operation, maintenance and replacement costs.
   G.   Access To Records: The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
("IEPA") or its authorized representative shall have access to any books,
documents, papers and records of the City which are applicable to the City
system of user charges for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts
and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the loan
agreement and rules or any State loan.
   H.   Appeals: The method for computation of rates and service charges
established for water and sewer user charges in sections
8-5-1 and
8-5-2 of this chapter shall be made available to a user within ten (10) days of
receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or
in the computations thereof shall be remedied by the City Manager within thirty
(30) days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the
discrepancies.
   I.   Uncontrolled Water Loss: In the event that an unexpected uncontrolled
water loss occurs to an owner occupied residential user, the user’s water bill
may be adjusted to the average bimonthly charge over the prior two (2) years,
or the period of time that the owner has resided at the residence, whichever is
less. This relief shall only apply to owner occupied residential users; the
billing adjustments shall be made only in the event of a plumbing problem that
is either unknown or beyond the control of the property owner; it shall be
clear that the extraordinary water consumption was not owing to some planned
use, e.g., filling a pool or spa, lawn watering, etc.; as a general guideline,
the water/sewer bill should be three (3) times the average billing for the
residence; the property owner shall show that insurance will not cover the cost
of the water loss; the property owner shall show that all the necessary steps
have been taken to correct the problem; and, the residential user’s account
must be current with no outstanding balances or late charges. Only one claim
shall be allowed per residential user and the user’s name and address shall be
logged for reference in the event of a future claim. (Ord. 2003.19, 6-2-2003;
amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-139-9.
CHAPTER 6
STORM SEWER AND STORM WATER STORAGE
SECTION:
8-6-1: Scope Of Provisions
8-6-2: Unlawful Discharges
8-6-3: Facilities Required
8-6-4: Permit Required; Application; Fee
8-6-5: Guarantee
8-6-6: Liability Insurance
8-6-7: Design And Construction Standards
8-6-8: Excavations
8-6-9: Approval
8-6-10: Penalties
8-6-1: SCOPE OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter shall control the design and construction of
storm sewer systems and storm water storage requirements. (1988 Code §25.101)
8-6-2: UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES:
   A.   Rainwater Drains: It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the
maintenance of any rainwater drain which discharges onto any sidewalk or public
way and it shall be unlawful to construct or permit the maintenance of any such
drain which discharges onto any public street or alley at a height greater than
eighteen inches (18") from the ground or pavement. (1988 Code §25.104)
   B.   Discharge Into Waterways: It shall be unlawful to discharge any
sanitary sewage into the storm sewer drainage system of the City, or into any
tributary storm sewer drainage system connecting to the City system, or into
any river or any watercourse within the jurisdiction of the City. (1988 Code
§25.106)
8-6-3: FACILITIES REQUIRED:
   A.   Storm Sewer System Required: A properly designed storm sewer system,
including a lateral for the connection of the sump pump discharge for every
newly developed residential lot, shall be provided at the expense of the owner
or developer of a subdivision or other tract of land. It shall be unlawful for
a downspout to be connected to the line for sump pump discharge. (Ord. 95.68,
1-22-1996)
   B.   Storm Water Storage Facilities: A properly designed storm water storage
facility shall be provided for all commercial and industrial developments that
contain an area in excess of two (2) acres. In addition, storm water storage
shall be provided for all residential developments in excess of two (2) acres.
(1988 Code §25.208)
8-6-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required; Application: No person shall connect to and extend any
storm sewer in the City without first submitting an application for a permit to
the City. The application for a permit shall be accompanied by three (3) sets
of plans and specifications for review prepared by a registered professional
engineer of Illinois. When said plans and specifications are approved and a
permit has been issued, the applicant shall furnish the City with an additional
three (3) sets of plans and specifications. The City shall be given an advance
notice of forty eight (48) hours before any construction begins.
   B.   Plan Review Fee: There shall be no fee charged for the review of plans
and specifications for storm sewer construction and storm water storage
facilities.
   C.   Storm Sewer Connection Fees: Fee shall be as set by the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code §§ 25.202 and 25.203; amd. Ord.
97.26, 7-7-1997; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
8-6-5: GUARANTEE:
   A.   Requirements: The owner shall provide the City with a certified check
or cashier's check, letter of credit or a surety bond, payable to the City in
the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the improvement as
estimated by the owner and approved by the City Engineer to assure the
satisfactory installation of said improvements as outlined and contained in the
approved plans and specifications. If the owner posts a surety bond, it shall
have good and sufficient surety therein and be approved by the City Attorney.
Until official acceptance of the work, the owner shall be responsible for all
maintenance of all required improvements. (1988 Code §25.204)
   B.   Release Of Guarantee: The owner's certified check or cashier's check,
letter of credit or surety bond shall be released only upon the completion of
the following:
      1.   The satisfactory installation of the storm sewer improvements.
      2.   The submission of four (4) sets of approved as-built plans for all
storm sewer improvements, including one Mylar copy.
      3.   The submission of final waiver of liens for all materials and labor
necessary for the installation of the storm sewer improvement.
      4.   Final acceptance by the City Council. (1988 Code §25.215)
8-6-6: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Any person performing work under this Chapter shall take out and maintain
during the construction of the project such liability and property damage
insurance as shall protect him, the City and the City's representatives from
claims from liability and property damages which may arise from construction of
the work. The City shall be furnished certificates of insurance issued by the
companies carrying the risk, which said certificates shall be in form and
substance satisfactory to and approved by the City. (1988 Code §25.103)
8-6-7: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Regulations, Standards And Specifications Adopted: The design and
construction of the storm sewer system and storm water storage facilities
within the jurisdiction of the City shall conform to the most restrictive of
the requirements contained in the latest edition of the following regulations,
standards and specifications, three (3) copies of each of which shall be on
file in the City Clerk's office.
      1.   City's "Standard Details for Storm Sewer Construction".
      2.   "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois".
      3.   "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction", Illinois
Department of Transportation.
      4.   "Design Manual", State of Illinois, Department of Public Works and
Buildings, Division of Highways, Bureau of Design.
      5.   "Highway Standards", State of Illinois, Department of Public Works
and Buildings, Division of Highways, Bureau of Design.
      6.   "Manual of Policies and Procedures, Location and Environment",
Illinois Department of Transportation.
      7.   Standards adopted by the Metropolitan Sanitary District of Greater
Chicago. (1988 Code §25.205)
   B.   Basis Of Design: The necessary volume of storm water storage shall be
calculated on the basis of a 100-year storm frequency 1 , using the criteria
established by the Metropolitan Sanitary District of Greater Chicago. The
volume required will be that necessary to handle the runoff of a 100-year storm
for any and all durations, from the fully developed drainage area of the site
tributary to the reservoir less that volume discharged during the same duration
as the allowable release rate. No storm water storage will be required for off-
site upstream areas. Flows from off-site tributary areas resulting from a 10-
year storm frequency will be drained through the storm sewer system provided
for the site. Off-site flow in excess of the 10-year storm frequency shall be
bypassed through the site as overland flow and shall be calculated using the
100-year storm frequency. Rainfall for a 100-year storm shall be determined by
using the Illinois State Water Survey Bulletin 70 criteria. (1988 Code §25.209;
amd. Ord. 96.47, 9-3-1996)
   C.   Storm Sewers For Impervious Areas:
      1.   Definition: For the purpose of this subsection, areas such as, but
not limited to, parking lots and driveways, patios, sidewalks, building roofs
and tennis courts where water is unable to naturally penetrate or drain from,
except as provided hereinabove, shall be deemed impervious surface areas.
      2.   Design Standards: All impervious surface areas of more than seven
thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet, as herein defined, shall be provided
with storm sewers and catch basins when a public storm sewer is not greater
than one hundred feet (100') from the nearest corner of property measured along
a street, alley or easement of the public sewer system. One catch basin shall
be provided for the first thirty thousand (30,000) square feet of said area and
one additional catch basin shall be provided for every additional twenty five
thousand (25,000) square feet of said area or portion thereof. All other
impervious areas shall be so designed as to drain to a public street or an
existing open watercourse; provided, that in no event shall water or other
draining liquids be allowed to pass onto adjoining property or over public
sidewalks unless at the point where a driveway intersects said sidewalk. (1988
Code §25.105; amd. 1994 Code)
   D.   Storm Sewer Capacities: Storm sewer capacities shall be determined
using the rational formula (Q=CIA) and shall be designed for a minimum 10-year
storm frequency. When storm water storage is required, provisions shall be made
to transport storm water runoff from a 10-year storm frequency from the fully
developed area of the site to the storm water storage area. The additional
storm water runoff resulting from the design for a 100-year storm frequency may
be transported to the storm water storage area over streets, parking areas,
parks, playgrounds or other open spaces, including utility easements. The storm
sewer system shall have adequate capacity to adequately drain all tributary
drainage areas through the property and there shall be no compensation to the
owner or developer by the City for the increased pipe sizes and construction
costs, if any. In any subdivision, lot or parcel of land where it is determined
by the City Engineer that the storm sewer would be larger than eighty four
inches (84"), based on a 10-year storm frequency, then a ditch or drainage
channel meeting the following standards may be used if the Council so approves.
      1.   With grades to four percent (4%), ditch may have earth bottoms and
sod banks.
      2.   With grades greater than four percent (4%), ditches must be paved.
      3.   All ditches shall have side slopes of not less than five to one (5:
1).
      4.   Easements for all ditches shall be dedicated to the City, and there
shall be provided in addition to the necessary width required for the ditch, a
strip of land on each side of the ditch of a width of fifteen feet (15'), said
distance to be measured perpendicular to trees, poles, structures and other
obstructions. The slope of these side areas to the ditch shall not exceed five
percent (5%). There shall be no trees, bushes or obstructions of any kind
placed in this area.
      5.   Culverts or bridges shall be provided at all street crossings and
shall be sized to eliminate flooding or ponding of water and shall have a
minimum cover of twelve inches (12"). Culverts or bridges shall be reinforced
concrete or precast reinforced concrete pipes with necessary headwalls.
Culverts or bridges shall extend a minimum of five feet (5') past each right-
of-way line of the street and shall extend far enough to provide a minimum
slope of five to one (5:1) from the right-of-way line down to the invert of the
pipe.
      6.   All ditches, bridges and culverts shall be located and designed in
accordance with City standards, as amended from time to time, and requirements
of the City Engineer.
      7.   All culverts or bridges shall be provided with suitable railings
and/or guard rails as required and approved by the City. (1988 Code §25.206;
amd. 1994 Code)
   E.   Manholes And Catch Basins: Manholes shall be provided at all changes in
direction and at intermediate points not exceeding three hundred fifty feet
(350'). Catch basins with curb inlets of proper size shall be provided as
required by the "Design Manual", State of Illinois, Department of Public Works
and Buildings. (1988 Code §25.207)
   F.   Allowable Release Rate: The allowable release rate of storm water
runoff from the developed drainage area of the site shall not exceed the
existing capacity of the downstream storm sewer system or drainage channel, but
in no case shall the discharge be more than fifteen one-hundredths (0.15) cfs
per acre measured at a maximum storage depth; except, that no outlet pipe of
less than three inches (3") in diameter shall be used as an outlet pipe from
any storm water storage facility. Outlet control facilities, other than pipes,
shall be constructed of reinforced concrete. Outlet pipes from storage areas
shall be either reinforced concrete pipe, Class III, or ductile iron pipe,
Class 52. (1988 Code §25.110; amd. Ord. 96.48, 9-3-1996)
   G.   Bypass: The drainage systems which are provided for the site shall have
adequate capacity to safely bypass through the development the flow resulting
from a 100-year storm frequency from all upstream areas, assuming the land is
in a fully developed state under present zoning or proposed zoning outlined in
the Comprehensive Plan. The flow shall be calculated using a runoff coefficient
of not less than fifty one-hundredths (0.50). An allowance shall be made for
any upstream storm water storage which has actually been provided. The required
bypass area for storm water in excess of the volume handled by the storm sewer
system may consist of streets, parking areas, parks, playgrounds or other open
spaces, including utility easements. There shall be no habitable structures
located within this bypass area which is used as a floodway and this bypass
area shall not be reshaped or restricted in any way to reduce its effective
capacity. The design of the bypass area shall take into consideration the
control of the storm water velocity to prevent erosion. The side slopes on any
drainage swale shall not be steeper than five to one (5:1). (1988 Code §25.211)
   H.   Storm Water Storage Areas: The required volume of storm water storage
may be provided in paved parking areas and in reservoirs with either a wet or
dry bottom. Alternate types of storm water storage areas shall be approved by
the City Engineer.
      1.   Parking Areas: The storm water storage areas shall be designed so
that the accumulation of water at any point in the parking lot during peak
rainfall does not exceed one foot (1'). The parking lot shall be sloped to
drain at a minimum of one percent (1%). The finished floor elevation of all
buildings shall be set so that no damage would occur if a storm in excess of
the 100-year storm frequency occurs or if the drainage outlet becomes plugged.
      2.   Dry Bottom Reservoirs:
         a.   A dry bottom type of reservoir may be designed to serve a
secondary purpose for recreation, open space or other types of uses that will
not be adversely affected by periodic flooding. A paved ditch with a slope of
not less than fifty percent (50%) will be required from the inlet pipe or
structure to the outlet pipe or structure to prevent erosion of the bottom of
the reservoir when the capacity of the inlet pipe exceeds five (5) cfs or when
the inlet pipe has a constant flow, even during dry weather. In certain cases,
dry bottom reservoirs shall have a pipe underdrain system as required by the
City Engineer. The paved ditch shall meet the requirements for paved ditches
contained in the "Highway Standards", State Department of Public Works and
Buildings, Division of Highways, Bureau of Design. The grassed bottom of the
reservoir shall slope to drain to the outlet or paved ditch at a minimum two
percent (2%) slope.
         b.   The side slopes on the earth berm around the reservoir shall not
be steeper than five to one (5:1), and the earth berm at the top shall not be
less than ten feet (10') wide. The inlet and outlet pipes or structures from
the reservoir shall be self- operating and require very limited maintenance. An
emergency overflow spillway shall be provided from the reservoir in the event a
storm in excess of the 100-year storm frequency occurs. The inlet and outlet
pipes or structures shall be provided with safety bars with maximum openings of
six inches (6") to provide for the safety of children.
      3.   Wet Bottom Reservoirs: Wet bottom storage reservoirs shall be
constructed to conform to the requirements shown on Exhibit "A" on file in the
office of the City Clerk. The minimum depth from the normal water level to the
bottom of the side slope shall be four feet (4'). A minimum of twenty five
percent (25%) of the pond area shall be constructed to a minimum depth of ten
feet (10') to provide for fish. Proper measures shall be provided by the
developer to prevent the water from becoming stagnant. Where the soil in the
bottom of the reservoir is too permeable to hold water, the bottom shall be
sealed by an accepted method approved by the City Engineer. The inlet and
outlet pipes or structures from the reservoir shall be self-operating and
require very limited maintenance. An emergency overflow spillway shall be
provided from the reservoir in the event a storm in excess of the 100-year
storm frequency occurs. The inlet and outlet pipes or structures shall be
provided with safety bars with maximum openings of six inches (6") to provide
for the safety of children. (1988 Code §25.212; amd. 1994 Code)
   I.   Construction Operations: Construction operations shall be conducted in
such a manner as to minimize erosion potential on the site. Silting of off-site
downstream areas shall be controlled through the appropriate use of
sedimentation basins, including retention/detention facilities designed for
that purpose; provided, that such facilities shall be restored to their design
configuration upon completion of construction operations. The developer shall
indicate the methods and timing of construction to be used for the control of
siltation during construction operations at the time that final engineering
plans are submitted for approval. (1988 Code §25.213)
 
Notes
  1. See Title 11, Chapter 1 of this Code for flood control regulations and
1 Section
  11-1-2 of this Code for definition of "base flood" (also known as the 100-
  year flood).
8-6-8: EXCAVATIONS 1 :
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to tunnel or make
any excavation for constructing, repairing or replacing a storm sewer in any
existing street, sidewalk, driveway, alley, parking or other public place
without having obtained a permit therefor.
   B.   Street Opening Fees And Deposits: See the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee Schedule for excavation fees and deposits.
   C.   Backfilling: All excavation in any existing street, sidewalk, driveway
or alley shall be backfilled with select granular material and repaired in
accordance with the City's standard details. (1988 Code § 25.102; amd. 1994
Code; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Title 7, Chapter 3 of this Code for excavations regulations.
8-6-9: APPROVAL:
All work required to be done under this Chapter by an applicant, be he the
owner, subdivider or contractor, shall be periodically inspected by and
approval obtained from the City Superintendent in charge or City Engineer as
the work progresses. When the work is completed, final approval shall be
obtained from the City Superintendent in charge or City Engineer. Before final
approval can be obtained, the Superintendent in charge or City Engineer shall
inspect all work and see that same has been completed in accordance with the
approved plans and specifications. (1988 Code §25.214)
8-6-10: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988 Code §
25.216; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
9-1-1: Permit Required
9-1-2: Certificate Of Occupancy
9-1-3: Restroom Facility Required
9-1-4: Construction Hours
9-1-5: Use Of Streets And Sidewalks
9-1-6: Safeguards
9-1-7: Mailboxes
9-1-8: Demolition Of Structures
9-1-9: Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-9C-1C of this Code for stop order provisions.
9-1-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to construct, enlarge, alter, or demolish a
structure or change the occupancy of a building or structure requiring greater
strength, means of egress or sanitary provisions, to change to another use,
install, or alter any equipment for which provision is made or the installation
of which is regulated by the Building Code, install or alter any electrical
equipment or wiring, or to install or alter any plumbing equipment or piping
without first filing an application with the Director of Community Development,
in writing, and obtaining the required permit therefor; except that “repairs,”
as defined in the Building Code, which do not involve any violation of the Code
shall be exempt from this provision.
   Exceptions:
      1.   Minor repairs that do not require changes in the piping to/from
plumbing fixtures or that involve the removal, replacement, installation, or
reinstallation of any plumbing fixtures do not require a plumbing permit.
      2.   Minor repairs that do not require changes in the wiring to/from
electrical fixtures or that involve the removal, replacement, installation, or
reinstallation of any electrical fixtures do not require an electrical permit.
   B.   Application for Permit: Each such application shall contain the name of
applicant, name of the owner of the premises to be served, name of the
contractors doing the work, and the nature of the work to be completed. Where
the work consists of new installations or extensive repairs or alterations,
plans and specifications of the work shall accompany the application.
   C.   Plans and Specifications: No permit shall be issued until after plans
and specifications showing the proposed work have been submitted, reviewed, and
approved by the Community Development Department. If a permit is denied, the
applicant shall submit revised plans and specifications. When it is found
necessary to make any change from the plans and specifications on which a
permit has been issued, amended plans and specifications shall be submitted to
the Community Development Department for final review and approval.
   D.   Failure to Obtain a Required Permit: In the event that construction
work commences without a permit as required by Section
9-1-1 (A) of this Code, the permit fees assessed for said permit will be double
the applicable amounts listed in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee, Bond &
Penalty Schedule. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-1-2: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate of Occupancy: A building or structure shall not be used or
occupied, and a change in the existing use or occupancy classification of a
building or structure or portion thereof shall not be made, until the Code
Official has issued a certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy
shall not be issued until a final inspection has been performed by the Code
Official in order to verify that all work covered by the permit is code-
compliant and complete.
   B.   Temporary Certificate of Occupancy: The Code Official may issue a
temporary certificate of occupancy before the completion of all work covered by
the permit, provided that such portion or portions shall be occupied safely.
The Code Official shall set an expiration date on which the temporary
certificate shall expire.
   C.   Winter Temporary Certificate of Occupancy: The Code Official may issue
a winter temporary certificate of occupancy when winter weather conditions are
present that may prevent the completion of exterior work, such as driveways,
sidewalks, and landscaping. Winter temporary certificates of occupancy will
only be issued during the period between November 15th and April 15th. All
winter temporary certificates of occupancy shall expire on June 1st.
   D.   Revocation of Certificate of Occupancy: The Code Official shall, in
writing, suspend or revoke a certificate of occupancy wherever the certificate
is issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or where
it is determined that the building or structure or portion thereof is in
violation of any ordinance, regulation or provision of this code. (Ord.
2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-1-3: RESTROOM FACILITY REQUIRED:
The owner or the owner’s representative of any building being constructed,
enlarged, altered, or demolished shall ensure that employees working on the
construction site have access to restroom facilities in accordance with the
Illinois State statute (410 ILCS 37/et seq.) Construction Site Temporary
Restroom Facility Act. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-1-4: CONSTRUCTION HOURS:
   A.   No person shall make, cause to be made, or permit to be made, any
unreasonable noise or sound which disturbs the peace.
   B.   No person shall operate, permit to be operated, or cause to be operated
on the exterior of any premises any power tools, such as but not limited to gas
or electric-powered lawnmowers, chain saws, power saws, sweepers, or yard
equipment, outside the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 9:00 P.M. on weekdays and 8:00
A.M. and 7:00 P.M. on Saturdays and Sundays, unless otherwise approved by the
City Manager or his/her designee.
   C.   No person shall operate, permit to be operated, or cause to be operated
on the exterior of any premises any heavy construction equipment such as but
not limited to tractors, excavators, augurs, backhoes, cement mixers, or
construction vehicles, outside the hours of 7:00 AM and 9:00 PM on weekdays and
8:00 AM and 7:00 PM on Saturdays and Sundays, unless otherwise approved by the
City Manager or his/her designee. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-1-5: USE OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Streets: The use of streets for the temporary storage of materials in
the process of construction or alteration of a building or structure may be
granted by the Director of Community Development or his/her designee where the
same will not unduly interfere with traffic and will not reduce the useable
width of the roadway to less than eighteen feet (18'). No portion of the street
other than that directly abutting on the premises on which work is being
performed shall be used, except with the consent of the owner or occupant of
the premises abutting on such portion.
   B.   Sidewalks: No sidewalk shall be obstructed in the course of building
construction or alteration without approval of the Director of Community
Development or his/her designee, and whenever removal of a sidewalk is
required, the replacement of said sidewalk shall be at the applicant’s expense
and in accordance with the City’s standards and specifications. No construction
or excavation vehicle shall be driven on, over, or upon the sidewalk, except
where there are finished driveways intersecting said sidewalk. (Ord. 2024.24,
10-21-2024)
9-1-6: SAFEGUARDS:
It shall be the duty of the person performing any construction, alteration, or
demolition work in the City to do the same with proper care for the safety of
persons and property. Warnings, barricades, and lights shall be provided and
maintained whenever necessary for the protection of pedestrians or traffic, and
temporary roofs over sidewalks shall be constructed whenever there is danger
from falling articles or materials to pedestrians. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-1-7: MAILBOXES:
   A.   The placement and use of rural-type, freestanding, individual mailboxes
at the curb on the City right of way in front of each residence is permitted
and recommended.
   B.   Wherever curbside mailboxes are required to be used in the City, the
standards for placement of said mailboxes are as follows: the face of the
mailbox (or nearest supporting member) shall be at least six inches (6") behind
the face of the curb and no further than eight inches (8") behind the face of
the curb. Any horizontal member that supports the mailbox shall not project
beyond the front of the mailbox. The bottom of the mailbox shall be at least
forty-one inches (41") but not more than forty-five inches (45") above the top
surface of the curb below. The vertical member(s) of the standard for the
support of the mailbox must be a minimum of ten inches (10") behind the face of
the curb, must be of wood that is resistant to decay or of various metals that
provide adequate support and must be buried to a minimum depth of twenty-four
inches (24") for stability. The standard and properly mounted mailbox must be
installed prior to the final inspection so that verification may be made as to
proper installation.
   C.   Property owners shall be responsible for repairing, replacing and
maintaining said mailboxes in compliance with this Section. The City will not
replace or repair any damaged mailbox except in the case of a properly
maintained mailbox that was damaged by City vehicles.
   D.   The placement of “cluster boxes” for delivery within the City right of
way is not permitted in single-family residential zoned areas. (Ord. 2024.24,
10-21-2024)
9-1-8: DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES:
   A.   Permit Required: A demolition permit in accordance with Section
9-1-1  of this Code shall be required prior to the demolition of any structure.
   B.   Prior to demolition, any and all utilities shall be properly located,
disconnected, and inspected.
   C.   Unless otherwise approved by the Director of Community Development or
the City Engineer, the demolition contractor shall remove all foundation walls,
slabs, sidewalks, driveways, parking areas around structure, and fences within
the property lines and basement. The Contractor shall also remove all fences
and scrub trees within property lines, remove junk vehicles, remove concrete
slabs, foundations, and all debris to ensure a clean site.
   D.   All logs, bushes, saplings, landscaping, shrubs, brush, and stumps of a
diameter less than six inches (6") shall be completely removed.
   E.   All accessory buildings, as defined by the City of Sycamore Unified
Development Ordinance, shall be completely removed from the lot. An accessory
building shall not remain on a lot without an accompanying principal building,
nor shall an accessory building be re-categorized as a principal building.
   F.   No debris shall be used as fill material. The entire parcel shall be
left in a level, neat, safe, and sanitary condition. Openings, holes, and voids
shall be filled up to the surrounding ground level with gravel, crushed road
stone, or other approved material compacted to 95% compaction in accordance
with ASTM D-698 and acceptable to the City Engineer.
   G.   Upon the completion of the demolition and removal operations, the final
grade of the whole properties must consist of a smooth grade consistent with
the grades of the surrounding properties.
   H.   The lot shall be final graded with no less than four inches (4") of
topsoil.
   I.   Upon the completion of grading, the property shall be properly seeded
with a type of grass seed or other ground covering native to the region or
approved by the City Engineer, erosion control shall be installed around the
perimeter of all disturbed areas and the erosion control shall remain in place
until the ground cover is established. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-1-9: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter, or of any code included
herein, shall be subject to penalties as provided in Section
1-4-1  of this Code. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
CHAPTER 2
FEES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Plan Review Fees
9-2-2: Permit Fees
9-2-3: Reinspection Fees
9-2-4: Occupancy Inspection Fees
9-2-5: Permit Refund Policy
9-2-1: PLAN REVIEW FEES:
Plan review fees are as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
9-2-2: BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
Building permit fees are as follows:
   A.   Residential - New Construction: Applicable fees are provided for in the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   B.   Miscellaneous Construction: Applicable fees are provided for in the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   C.   Commercial - New Construction and Additions: Applicable fees are
provided for in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   D.   Electrical Inspection Fees:
      1.   Residential Permit Fees: There shall be charged for the inspection
of residential electrical wiring. Applicable fees are provided for in the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      2.   Commercial and Industrial Permit Fees: There shall be charged for
the inspection of commercial and industrial wiring fees in accordance with the
City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   E.   Fire Protection Fees:
      1.   Fire Suppression System: The base inspection/testing fee shall be as
set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   F.   Plumbing Inspection Fees: Applicable fees are provided for in the City
of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   G.   Water Inspection Fees: Applicable fees are provided for in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   H.   Water Service Tap Fees: Applicable fees are provided for in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   I.   Water Connection Fees: Applicable fees are provided for in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   J.   Sewer and Storm Fees: Applicable fees are provided for in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   K.   Sewer Connection Fees: Applicable fees are provided for in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   L.   Impact Fees - Payment verification required prior to scheduling final
inspection.
      1.   School District: See section
10-3-4, "Contribution of Cash in Lieu of Dedication of School Sites" of this
code.
      2.   Park District: See section
10-3-5, "Contribution of Cash in Lieu of Dedication of Park Sites" of this
code.
      3.   Library: See section
10-3-6, "Library Impact Fee" of this code.
   M.   Engineering Fees: Applicable fees are provided for in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   N.   Annexation Fees All annexation fees payable at time of final plat. See
the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff.
1-1-2020; amd. Ord. 2022.21, 1-17-2023; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023; Ord.
2023.16, 10-2-2023)
9-2-3: REINSPECTION FEES:
If an inspection is scheduled by a permit holder or an agent representing the
permittee and the work for which the inspection has been scheduled is not
completed to the extent that approval may be made, the permit holder or
designated agent shall be required to pay a fee at the office of the City
Clerk, prior to another inspection being scheduled. Applicable fees are
provided for in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2019.20,
9-16-2019, eff. 1-1- 2020; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
9-2-4: OCCUPANCY INSPECTION FEES:
   A.   Temporary Certificate of Occupancy: Any temporary certificate of
occupancy that is issued with an expiration date of one (1) month or more from
the date of inspection shall be assessed a reinspection fee in accordance with
section
9-2-3.
   B.   Illegal Occupancy: In the event a structure is occupied before a
Certificate of Occupancy has been issued or after a Temporary Certificate of
Occupancy has expired, the permit applicant shall be subject to penalties as
provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2019.20, 9-
16-2019, eff. 1-1- 2020; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
9-2-5: PERMIT REFUND POLICY:
If a permit fee exceeds an amount set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule and no work has been commenced with respect to such permit, a permit
holder may submit a written request for a refund of fees to the Director of
Building and Engineering, provided that such request must be made not later
than one (1) year from the date that the permit was issued. In the event that a
refund is granted, a fifteen percent (15%) administrative fee shall be deducted
from the balance due, and the permit shall be void. The city cannot refund any
impact fees paid to school, park, library or any other governmental units, and
requests for refund of impact fees shall be submitted to the appropriate
governing body, if applicable. Public improvement fees are nonrefundable. (Ord.
2019.20, 9-16- 2019, eff. 1-1-2020; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 3
CONTRACTOR REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Electrical Contractor Registration Requirements
9-3-2: Plumbing Contractor Licensing Requirements
9-3-3: Roofing Contractor Licensing Requirements
9-3-4: Private Alarm Contractor Licensing Requirements
9-3-5: Fire Sprinkler Contractor Licensing Requirements
9-3-6: Irrigation Contractor Licensing Requirements
9-3-1: ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
Any person, firm, or corporation that performs any manner of electrical wiring,
repair, alteration, installation, or work that requires a building permit shall
be required to register annually with the Community Development Department and
shall otherwise fulfill required obligations as set forth in Section
3-7-1  of this Code.
   A.   Registration Requirements: Registration year shall begin on January 1
of each year and shall require compliance with the following standards:
      1.   Registration: Registration shall be in a form and content acceptable
to the Director of Community Development or his/her designee and shall include
contact information for the contractor who will be performing the work within
the City of Sycamore. Registration shall require a completed application,
payment of the registration fee as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee, Bond & Penalty Schedule, and the necessary qualifications, training,
experience, and technical knowledge to do electrical work as evidenced by: 1) a
valid electrical license issued by a governmental entity located within the
State of Illinois that administers tests consistent with standards of the
National Electrical Code; 2) proof of successful passage of an electrical
examination consistent with the standards of the National Electrical Code; or
3) an expired City of Sycamore electrical license/registration. The application
shall be reviewed and approved by the Director of Community Development or his/
her designee.
      2.   Annual Renewal: The registration shall be renewed annually.
Contractors registered from the previous fiscal year shall pay the registration
fee as set by the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee, Bond & Penalty Schedule. A
notice of renewal will be sent to all registrants prior to December 31 of each
fiscal year. Failure to renew the registration for two (2) consecutive fiscal
years shall require the contractor to submit a new registration application as
outlined in Section
9-3-1 (A)(1) of this Code.
   B.   Owner-occupants of a single-family residence may perform electrical
wiring/installations without registering with the City, with the exception of
the installation of electrical meter bases or panels, provided they are an
owner-occupant of the building where the work is being completed, the building
is a single-family detached dwelling and all of the appropriate permits have
been obtained. A person shall be considered an “owner-occupant” only if he or
she has taken possession of and is living in the premises as his or her bona
fide sole and exclusive residence; -3-2 or in the case of an owner of a single-
family residence under construction for his or her occupancy, he or she expects
to take possession of and live in the premises as his or her bona fide sole and
exclusive residence, and he or she has a current intention to live in such
premises as his or her bona fide sole and exclusive residence for a period of
not less than six (6) months after the completion of the electrical work
performed pursuant to the authorization of this subsection; or in the case of
an owner of a single-family residence under construction for his or her
occupancy, for a period of not less than six (6) months after the completion of
construction of the residence.
   C.   City Not Liable for Electrical Work. This Chapter shall not be
construed to relieve or lessen the responsibility of any person, firm, or
corporation that performs any manner of electrical wiring, repair, alteration,
installation, or work that requires a building permit for damages to any one
injured by any defect therein by reason of the inspections authorized herein or
the certificate of inspection issued by the Director of Community Development
and his/her designee; nor shall the City be held liable for any damages
resulting from the enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord.
2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-3-2: PLUMBING CONTRACTOR LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The inspection of plumbing and plumbing systems shall be performed only
by the Plumbing Inspector of the City of Sycamore, as defined by the Illinois
Plumbing License Law, or in his/her absence, by a licensed plumber appointed by
the Director of Community Development and/or his designee.
   B.   All Plumbing Contractors shall meet the requirements of the Illinois
State Plumbing Contractor Registration Code (225 ILCS 320/1 et seq.).
Contractors who are registered under this section shall, upon request, provide
the City with a copy of their State-issued registration and contact information
in a form and content acceptable to the Director of Community Development and/
or his designee.
   C.   Permits shall be issued only to a registered plumbing contractor. A
plumbing permit may be issued to the owner-occupant of a single-family
residence only. A person shall be considered an “owner-occupant” only if he or
she has taken possession of and is living in the premises as his or her bona
fide sole and exclusive residence; or in the case of an owner of a single-
family residence under construction for his or her occupancy, he or she expects
to take possession of and live in the premises as his or her bona fide sole and
exclusive residence, and he or she has a current intention to live in such
premises as his or her bona fide sole and exclusive residence for a period of
not less than six (6) months after the completion of the plumbing work
performed pursuant to the authorization of this subsection; or in the case of
an owner of a single-family residence under construction for his or her
occupancy, for a period of not less than six (6) months after the completion of
construction of the residence. Such person is authorized in accordance with the
state plumbing license law to install, alter, or repair the plumbing system of
such single-family residence; provided, that such plumbing shall comply with
all plumbing laws, rules, and regulations of the current Illinois Plumbing Code
and shall be subject to such inspections as may be provided by the City, and
provided further, that any such owner-occupant shall not employ any person
other than an Illinois licensed plumber to assist him/her in such work.
   D.   Neither a tenant nor a landlord may perform plumbing work as defined by
the Illinois State Plumbing Code. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-3-3: ROOFING CONTRACTOR LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
All Roofing Contractors shall meet the requirements of the Roofing Industry
Licensing Act (225 ILCS 335/1 et seq.). Contractors who are State-licensed
under this section shall, upon request, provide the City with a copy of their
State-issued license and contact information in form and content acceptable to
the Director of Community Development and/or his designee. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-
21-2024)
9-3-4: PRIVATE ALARM CONTRACTOR LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
All Fire Alarm Contractors shall meet the requirements of the Private
Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor and Locksmith
Act of 2004 (225 ILCS 447/1 et seq.). Contractors who are State-licensed under
this section shall, upon request, provide the City with a copy of their State-
issued license and contact information in form and content acceptable to the
Director of Community Development and/or his designee. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-
2024)
9-3-5: FIRE SPRINKLER CONTRACTOR LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
All Fire Sprinkler Contractors shall meet the requirements of the Illinois Fire
Sprinkler Contractor’s Licensing Act (225 ILCS 317/1 et seq.). Contractors who
are State-licensed under this section shall, upon request, provide the City
with a copy of their State-issued license and contact information in form and
content acceptable to the Director of Community Development and/or his
designee. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-3-6: IRRIGATION CONTRACTOR LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
All Irrigation Contractors shall meet the requirements of the Illinois Lawn
Irrigation Contractor and Lawn Sprinkler System Registration Code (77 Ill.
Admin. Code 892). Contractors who are State-licensed under this section shall,
upon request, provide the City with a copy of their State-issued license and
contact information in form and content acceptable to the Director of Community
Development and/or his designee. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Building Code
9-4-2: International Building Code
9-4-3: International Residential Code For One- And Two-Family Dwellings
9-4-4: International Fire Code
9-4-5: International Plumbing Code
9-4-6: International Mechanical Code
9-4-7: International Fuel Gas Code
9-4-8: International Swimming Pool And Spa Code
9-4-9: International Existing Building Code
9-4-10: International Property Maintenance Code
9-4-11: National Electrical Code
9-4-12: Illinois Plumbing Code
9-4-13:    Electric Vehicle Charging Act
9-4-1: BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Building Codes Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference as the
Building Code for the City of Sycamore, the International Code Council (ICC)
Building Codes, 2015 Edition and the National Electrical Code, 2021 Edition,
one (1) copy of such rules and regulations in book form has been filed in the
Community Development Department for use and examination by the public at least
thirty (30) days prior to the adoption of this chapter and shall there be kept
available for public use, inspection, and examination. The Building Code for
the City of Sycamore shall regulate and govern the conditions and maintenance
of all property, buildings, and structures; by providing the standards for
supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions
essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation
and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human
occupancy and use and the demolition of such structures as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Building Code on file in the office of the City of Sycamore are hereby referred
to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this legislation,
with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed
within each section of this chapter.
      Adopted Codes
      International Building Code - 2021 Edition
      International Residential Code for One-and Two-Family Dwellings - 2021
Edition
      International Energy Conservation Code - 2021 Edition with State of
Illinois Amendments
      International Fire Code - 2021 Edition
      International Plumbing Code - 2021 Edition
      International Mechanical Code - 2021 Edition
      International Fuel Gas Code - 2021 Edition
      International Swimming Pool and Spa Code - 2021 Edition
      International Existing Building Code - 2021 Edition
      International Property Maintenance Code - 2021 Edition
      National Electrical Code - 2023 Edition
      Illinois Plumbing Code - Current Edition
      NFPA 101 Life Safety Code - Current Edition, as it applies to state
buildings, state licensed facilities, and other occupancies under the purview
of the OSFM.
      Illinois Accessibility Code - Current Edition
      ADA Standards for Accessible Design - 2010 Edition
      Illinois Radon Resistant Construction Act - Current Edition
      Illinois Elevator Safety Act - Current Edition
      Illinois Smoke Detector Act - Current Edition
      Illinois Carbon Monoxide Alarm Detector Act - Current Edition
      Illinois Electric Vehicle Charging Act - Current Edition
      Illinois Urban Manual - Current Edition
   B.   Amendments:
      9-4-2:   International Building Code
      9-4-3:   International Residential Code for One-and Two-Family Dwellings
      9-4-4:   International Fire Code
      9-4-5:   International Plumbing Code
      9-4-6:   International Mechanical Code
      9-4-7:   International Fuel Gas Code
      9-4-8:   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
      9-4-9:   International Existing Building Code
      9-4-10:   International Property Maintenance Code
      9-4-11:   National Electrical Code
      9-4-12:   Illinois Plumbing Code
      9-4-13:   Electric Vehicle Charging Act
      In all Chapters and Sections, where “name of jurisdiction” and/or “chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction” is written, insert “City of
Sycamore.”
   C.   Enforcing Officers: Inspection powers and enforcement duties for all
codes contained herein shall be assigned as follows:
      Plumbing Code: The Plumbing Inspector, or in his absence an Illinois
Licensed Plumber appointed by the Director of Community Development or his/her
designee, shall enforce all codes and regulations governed by the current
edition of the Illinois Plumbing Code.
      Electrical Code: The Director of Community Development or his/her
designee, the Fire Chief or his/her designees and the Electrical Inspector
shall enforce all codes and regulations of the currently adopted editions of
the National Electrical Code.
      Fire Code: The Director of Community Development or his/her designee and
the Fire Chief or his/her designee shall enforce all codes and regulations of
the currently adopted editions of the International Fire Code.
      Property Maintenance Code: The Director of Community Development or his/
her designee, the Code Enforcement Officer the Fire Chief or his/her designee
and the Police Chief or his/her designee and the Public Works Director or his/
her designee shall enforce all codes and regulations of the currently adopted
editions of the International Property Maintenance Code.
      All other Codes: The Director of Community Development or his/her
designee, the Fire Chief or his/her designee and the Police Chief or his/her
designee and the Public Works Director or his/her designee shall enforce all
other adopted codes and regulations, as applicable. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024;
amd. Ord. 2024.34, 11-18-2024)
9-4-2: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
The following sections of the International Building Code, 2021 Edition are
hereby revised as follows:
   In all Chapters and Sections, where “name of jurisdiction” and/or “chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction” is written, insert “City of
Sycamore.”
   101.4.3 Plumbing. Shall be amended to replace 101.4.3 with the following:
   The provisions of the International Plumbing Code shall apply only to
Chapter 11, Storm Drainage and Section 403.3.2, Prohibited toilet room
location. Toilet rooms shall not open directly into a room used for the
preparation of food for service to the public.
   101.4.6 Energy. Shall be amended to replace 101.4.6 with the following:
   The provisions of the Illinois Energy Conservation Code - current edition
shall apply to all matters governing the design and construction of buildings
for energy efficiency.
   102 Applicability. Shall be amended to add the following new sections 102.7
and R102.8:
   102.7 Electrical. All references within this code to “ICC Electrical Code”
shall be deleted in their entirety and, in lieu thereof, the following language
shall be substituted: currently adopted edition of the NFPA 70 National
Electric Code with local amendments.
   R102.8 Plumbing. The provisions of the International Plumbing Code shall
apply only to Chapter 11, Storm Drainage and Section. All references within
this code to the ICC plumbing code shall be deemed changed to read “the current
Illinois Plumbing Code,” as currently adopted, prepared and published by the
Illinois Department of Public Health” with local amendments.
   109.2 Schedule of permit fees. Shall be amended to replace 109.2 with the
following:
   The fees for each plan examination, building permit and inspections, and
administrative costs associated with the issuance and supervision of permits
shall be as prescribed in the current edition of the Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule.
   707.3 Fire resistant rating: Shall be amended to add the following new
section 707.3.11 and the exception:
   707.3.11 Fire barriers in multi-tenant buildings. Each unit having its own
entrance within a multi-tenant commercial building shall be separated by fire
barrier having a minimum of an approved 2-hour rated UL listed assembly which
shall extend vertically from the foundation to the underside of the roof
sheathing.
   Exception: Existing fire barriers that are not required to have a minimum 2-
hour rated UL listed assembly in accordance with Table 707.3.10.
   903.2.8 Group R. Shall be amended to add the following exception:
   Exception: Buildings which do not exceed two stories above grade with a
maximum of six dwelling units per building. Exposed (i.e. look-out) basements,
shall be considered a story above grade where the finished surface of the floor
above the basement floor is more than 6' above the lowest grade elevation
adjoining the building for more than 50% of the total building perimeter.
   1008.3.3 Rooms and spaces. Shall be amended to replace subparagraph 5 with
the following:
   5.   All public restrooms.
   Chapter 11 Accessibility. Shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced with
the Illinois Accessibility Code and ADA Standards for Accessible Design - 2010
Edition.
   Chapter 13 Energy efficiency. Shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced
with the 2021 International Energy Conservation Code with State of Illinois
Amendments.
   1608.2. Ground Snow Loads. Shall be amended to replace 1608.2 with the
following:
   The design snow load for the City of Sycamore shall be 30 psf.
   1612.3 Establishment of flood hazard area. Shall be amended as follows:
   Insert “City of Sycamore” and “current edition” for name of jurisdiction and
date of issuance.
   1807.1.6.2 Concrete foundation walls. Previous amendment shall be deleted.
   1807.1.6.3 Masonry foundation walls. Previous amendment shall be deleted.
   1808 Concrete foundations. Shall be revised to add the following new section
1808.10:
   1808.10 Frost footings. The minimum depth of frost footings shall be 42
inches below grade. Where applicable, the requirements of Sections 1809.4 and
1809.5 shall be satisfied. The minimum width of frost footings shall be 16
inches.
   Chapter 27 Electrical. Shall be deleted in its entirety.
   Chapter 29 Plumbing Systems. Shall be deleted in its entirety.
   3002.4 Elevator to accommodate ambulance stretcher. Shall be amended to
replace 3002.4 with the following:
   Where elevators are provided in buildings two or more stories above, or two
or more stories below grade plane, not fewer than one elevator shall be
provided for fire department access to all floors. The elevator car shall be of
such a size and arrangement to accommodate an ambulance stretcher 24 inches by
84 inches with not less than 5-inch radius corners, in the horizontal, open
position and shall be identified by the international symbol for emergency
medical services (star of life). The symbol shall not be less than 3 inches in
height and shall be placed inside on both sides of the hoist way door frame.
   Exception: Compliance with this code amendment may not be required in
existing buildings based on a review by the AHJ of the proposed use and
occupancy classification, means of egress (exit access, the exit and exit
discharge), stairwell configuration and technical feasibility. Where compliance
with this section is technically infeasible, fire department access shall be
provided to the maximum extent that is technically feasible and shall provide
adequate space to accommodate the safe movement of an ambulance stretcher by
emergency personnel. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-4-3: INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
The following sections of the International Residential Code for One and Two-
Family Dwellings, 2021 Edition are hereby amended as follows:
   In all Chapters and Sections, where “name of jurisdiction” and/or “chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction” is written, insert “City of
Sycamore.”
   R102 Applicability: Shall be amended to add the following new Sections
R102.8 and R102.9:
   R102.8 Electrical. All references within this code to the ICC electrical
code shall be deleted in their entirety and in lieu thereof, the following
language shall be submitted: currently adopted edition of the NFPA 70 National
Electric Code with local amendments.
   R102.9 Plumbing. The provisions of the International Plumbing Code shall
apply only to Chapter 11, Storm Drainage and Section. All references within
this code to the ICC plumbing code shall be deemed changed to read “the current
Illinois Plumbing Code”, prepared and published by the Illinois Department of
Public Health” with local amendments.
   R201 Definitions. The stated definition of Townhouse shall be deleted and
replaced with:
   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of 3, 4, 5
or 6 attached units in which each unit extends from foundation to roof and with
open space on at least two sides. Dwelling units where more than six units are
attached shall be governed by code provisions applicable to multiple-family
dwellings.
   R301.2 Climactic and geographic design criteria. Insert as follows:
TABLE R301.2(1)
CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
 
       Wind Design                                  Subject To Damage From
                                                                                  Ice
Ground        Topograp Special Windbo Seismic Clima          Frost         Winter Barrier  Flood   Air      Mean
Snow   Speedd hic      Wind    rne    Design  te    Weatheri Line   Termit Design Inderlay Hazards Freezing Annual
Load   (mph)  Effectsk Regionl Debris Categor Zone  nga      Depthb ec     Tempe  ment     g       Indexi   Temp
                               Zonem  yf                                          Require
                                                                                  dh
                                                                    Moder                  See     See      See
30 psf 115    No       No      No     A       5A    Severe   42"    ate/   -4°f  Yes      Local   Table    Table
                                                                    heavy
 
a.   Weathering may require a higher strength concrete or grade of masonry than
necessary to satisfy the structural requirements of this Code. The weathering
column shall be filled in with the weathering index, “negligible,” “moderate”
or “severe” for concrete as determined from Figure R301.2(3). The grade of
masonry units shall be determined from ASTM C34, C55, C62, C73, C90, C129,
C145, C216 or C652.
b.   The frost line depth may require deeper footings than indicated in Figure
R403.1(1). The jurisdiction shall fill in the frost line depth column with the
minimum depth of footing below finish grade.
c.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table to indicate the need
for protection depending on whether there has been a history of local
subterranean termite damage.
d.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the wind speed
from the basic wind speed map [Figure R301.2(2)]. Wind exposure category shall
be determined on a site-specific basis in accordance with Section R301.2.1.4.
e.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this section of the table to establish the
design criteria using Table 10A from ACCA Manual J or established criteria
determined by the jurisdiction.
f.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the seismic
design category determined from section R301.2.2.1.
g.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with: the date of
the jurisdiction’s entry into the National Flood Insurance Program (date of
adoption of the first code or ordinance for management of the flood hazard
areas); and the title and date of the currently effective Flood Insurance Study
or other flood hazard study and maps adopted by the authority having
jurisdiction, as amended.
h.   In accordance with Sections R905.1.2, R905.4.3.1, R905.5.3.1, R905.6.3.1,
8905.7.3.1, and R905.8.3.1, where there has been a history of local damage from
the effects of ice damming, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the
table with “YES”. Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the
table with “NO”.
i.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the 100-year
return period air freezing index (BF-days) from Figure R403.3(2) or from the
100-year (99 percent) value on the National Climatic Data Center data table”
“Air Freezing Index-USA Method (Base 32°F).”
j.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the means
annual temperature from the National Climatic Data Center table “Air Freezing
Index-USA Method (Base 32°F).
k.   In accordance with Section R301.2.1.5, where there is local historical
data documenting structural damage to buildings due to topographic wind speed-
up effects, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with “YES”.
Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall indicate “NO” in this part of the table.
l.   In accordance with Figure R301.2(2), where there is local historical data
documenting unusual wind conditions, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part
of the table with “YES” and identify any specific requirements. Otherwise, the
jurisdiction shall indicate “NO” in this part of the table.
m.   In accordance with Section R301.2.1.2, the jurisdiction shall indicate the
wind-borne debris wind zone(s). Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall indicate “NO”
in this part of the table.
n.   The jurisdiction shall fill in these sections of the table to establish
the design criteria using Table 1a or 1b from ACCA Manual J or established
criteria determined by the jurisdiction.
o.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this section of the table using the Ground
Snow Loads in Figures R301.2(3) and R301.2(4).
   R302.2 Townhouses. Shall be amended to replace R302.2 with the following:
   Each townhouse, as defined in this code, shall be constructed as a separate
single-family dwelling unit and shall be separated by a minimum of an approved
2-hour rated UL listed assembly which shall extend vertically from the
foundation to the underside of the roof sheathing and horizontally the full
length of the common wall. The number of single-family dwelling units attached
in this manner shall not exceed six (6). Floor/ceiling assemblies shall extend
to and be tight against the exterior wall, and wall assemblies shall extend
from the foundation to the underside of the roof sheathing and shall extend the
full length of the common wall. The number of single-family dwelling units
attached in this manner shall not exceed six (6).
   Exception: When the complete building is provided with an approved
residential fire sprinkler system, an approved 1-hour rated UL listed assembly
wall can substitute for the 2-hour rated UL listed assembly wall.
   R302.3 Two-family dwellings. Shall be amended to replace R302.3 with the
following:
   Dwelling units in two-family dwellings shall be constructed as a separate
single-family dwelling unit and shall be separated by a minimum of an approved
2-hour rated UL listed assembly wall or similar materials, which shall extend
vertically from the foundation to the underside of the roof sheathing and
horizontally the full length of the common wall. Floor/ceiling assemblies shall
extend to and be tight against the exterior wall, and wall assemblies shall
extend from the foundation to the underside of the roof sheathing and shall
extend the full length of the common wall.
   Exception: When the complete building is provided with an approved
residential fire sprinkler system, an approved 1-hour rated UL listed assembly
wall can substitute for the 2-hour rated UL listed assembly wall.
   R302.6 Dwelling-garage fire separation. Shall be amended to replace R302.6
with the following:
   The garage shall be separated from the residence and any attic area by not
less than 5/8-inch type X gypsum board applied to the garage side and taped
with a minimum one coat of approved joint tape and compound. Where the
separation is a floor-ceiling assembly, the structure supporting the separation
shall be protected by not less than 5/8-inch type X gypsum board with one coat
of approved joint tape and compound or equivalent.
   R302.13 Fire protection of floors. Shall be amended to replace R302.13 with
the following:
   All exposed engineered wood framing and framing less than 2"x 10" nominal
dimension shall be protected (on the bottom/ceiling side) with ½” drywall or 5/
8" plywood.
   Exception 4. Shall be amended to replace Exception 4 with the following:
   Wood floor assemblies using dimension lumber or structural composite lumber
equal to or greater than 2x10-inch nominal dimension, other approved floor
assemblies demonstrating equivalent fire performance or fire-retardant paint in
accordance with ICC-ES AC14, as published by ICC Evaluation Services.
   R309.1 Floor surface. Shall be amended to replace R309.1 with the following
and add the exception:
   Garage and carport floor surfaces shall be of approved noncombustible
material. That area of floor used for parking of automobiles or other vehicles
shall be sloped to facilitate the movement of liquids towards the main vehicle
entry doorway. The common wall of garage and living space, including
stairwells, shall have a four (4) inch concrete curb to protect separation wall
from liquids.
   Exception: Garage floors with a slope of 1.5% grade that continues to slope
from the garage floor down the driveway are not required to have a four (4)
inch gas curb.
   R313.1 Townhouse automatic fire sprinkler systems. Shall be amended to add
Exceptions 1 and 2:
   An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall be installed in
townhouses.
   Exceptions:
   1.   An automatic fire sprinkler shall not be required for buildings which
do not exceed two stories above grade and/or a maximum of six dwelling units
per building. Exposed (i.e. look-out) basements, shall be considered a story
above grade where the finished surface of the floor above the basement floor is
more than 6' above the lowest grade elevation adjoining the building for more
than 50% of the total building perimeter.
   2.   An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required
when additions or alterations are made to existing townhouses that do not have
an automatic residential fire sprinkler system installed.
   R313.2 One- and two-family dwellings automatic fire sprinkler systems. Shall
be deleted in its entirety.
   R317.1.3 Wood columns. Shall be amended to add the following new Section
R317.1.3:
   Posts, poles, and columns supporting structures that are embedded in
concrete, in direct contact with the earth or are embedded in concrete exposed
to the weather are prohibited.
   R402.1 Wood foundations. Sections R402.1, R402.1.1, and R402.1.2 shall be
deleted in their entirety.
   R403.1.1 Minimum size. Shall be amended to replace R403.1.1 with the
following:
   Minimum sizes for concrete and masonry footings shall be as follows:
   1.   Footing width shall be a minimum of 16 inches (16") for wood frame
walls above and 20 inches (20") for wood frame walls with brick veneer above,
or as specified by a licensed design professional.
   2.   Footing depth shall be a minimum of 8 inches (8") for wood frame walls
above and 10 inches (10") for wood frame wall with brick veneer above, or as
specified by a licensed design professional.
   3.   Unless soil conditions warrant a greater width or as specified by a
licensed design professional, footing projections shall be equal to ¼ the width
of the footing and the wall must be centered on the footing.
   4.   Single story structures may be placed on 12-inch wide by 42-inch-deep
trench footing. Footing thickness shall be a minimum of 8-inches or the same
depth as the wall thickness, whichever is greater, or as specified by a
licensed design professional.
   403.1.1.1 Minimum size. Shall be amended to replace 403.1.1.1 with the
following:
   The minimum size of footings supporting piers and columns shall be thirty-
six (36) inches by thirty-six (36) inches square by twelve (12) inches thick,
or as specified by a licensed design professional.
   R403 Footings. Shall be amended to add the following new Section R403.3.5:
   R403.3.5 Detached garages or sheds. The code official may approve a
continuous slab on ground foundations which are located where adequate subsoil
drainage frost protection is provided and the following conditions are met:
   1.   The structure is non-occupiable, unconditioned, detached, of Use Groups
S or U, does not contain any masonry and does not exceed (1) one story or 20
feet in height.
   2.   The area of the structure is 900 square feet or less.
   3.   The slab/foundation must bear on a gravel base consisting of a minimum
of 4" of crushed limestone.
   4.   The slab shall be constructed using a minimum 6 bag mix with a minimum
compressive strength of 3000 pounds at 14 days.
   5.   To control cracking, 6 x 6 x 10-gauge wire mesh shall be placed at mid-
depth below the surface of the slab and the slab shall be tooled or saw-cut to
a depth of one inch (1") into relatively equal areas not to exceed 12' x 12'.
   6.   The perimeter of the slab shall be thickened to a minimum of twelve
inches (12") vertically, six inches (6") horizontally at the bottom, sloped at
a 45-degree angle to the slab base and reinforced with 1 (one) #4 rebar within
the entire perimeter of the slab.
   7.   The center of the slab shall be a minimum of four inches (4") thick.
   R404.1.3.2 Reinforcement for foundation walls. Shall be amended to replace
R404.1.3.2 with the following:
   All foundation walls subject to unbalanced backfill shall be provided with
properly installed continuous reinforcement equivalent to two (2) #4
reinforcing within twelve inches (12") of the top of the foundation.
   R404.1.6 Height above finished grade. Previous amendment shall be deleted.
   R404.3 Wood sill plates. Shall be amended to replace R404.3 with the
following:
   Wood sill plates that rest upon a concrete floor or foundation must be CCA
treated or naturally protected lumber. Sill plate anchorage shall be in
accordance with Sections R403.1.6 and R602.11.
   R405.1 Foundation drainage. Shall be amended to replace R405.1 with the
following:
   Perforated footing tile shall be provided around the interior and exterior
sides of concrete or masonry foundations that retain earth and enclose
habitable or usable spaces located below grade.
   R408 Under floor space. Shall be revised to add the following new Section
R408.9:
   R408.9 Crawl Space Floor. A minimum of a 2-inch-thick slush coat of poured
concrete shall be installed over a minimum of 4-inch-thick stone in the crawl
space, with a minimum of a six (6) mil thick polyethylene film moisture barrier
with all joints lapped a minimum of 6-inches.
   Table R503.2.1.1(1). ALLOWABLE SPANS AND LOADS FOR WOOD STRUCTURAL PANELS
FOR ROOF AND SUBFLOOR SHEATHING AND COMBINATION SUBFLOOR UNDERLAYMENT. Shall be
amended to add the following new Footnote M:
   m.   For existing structures with 3/8-inch plywood sheathing: Where more
than fifty (50) percent has deteriorated and is no longer structurally sound as
determined by the authority having jurisdiction, all roof sheathing shall be
replaced with 7/16-inch grade-stamped sheathing.
   R504 Pressure-preservative treated wood floors (On ground). Shall be deleted
in its entirety.
   R506.1 General. Shall be amended to replace R506.1 with the following:
   Concrete slab-on-ground garage floors shall be minimum 4-inches thick with a
minimum of 6 x 6 10-gauge wire mesh placed at mid-depth below the surface of
the slab. Fiber mesh can be used in lieu of wire mesh. The minimum compressive
strength of concrete shall be 3,000 pounds at 14 days.
   R506.2.2 Base. Shall be amended to replace R506.2.2 with the following:
   The sub-base for poured concrete garage floors shall be undisturbed
inorganic soil. All fill material shall be clean graded sand, crushed stones,
or gravel. The use of any soils, discarded concrete and/or discarded asphalt as
fill material is prohibited.
   506.2.3 Vapor retarder under concrete slab. Shall be amended to replace
506.2.3 with the following:
   A minimum 6-mil (0.010 inch; 0.254 mm) vapor retarder conforming to ASTM
E1745 Class A requirements with joints lapped not less than 6 inches (152 mm)
shall be placed between the concrete floor slab and the base course or the
prepared subgrade where a base course does not exist.
   Exception: The vapor retarder is not required for the following:
   1.   Garages, utility buildings and other unheated accessory structures.
   2.   For unheated storage rooms having an area of less than 70 square feet
(6.5 square meters) and carports.
   3.   Driveways, walks, patios and other flatwork not likely to be enclosed
and heated at a later date.
   4.   Where approved by the building official, based on local site
conditions.
   R908.2.1 Roof sheathing. Shall be revised to add the following new section
R908.2.1:
   R908.2.1. For existing structures with 3/8-inch plywood sheathing: Where
more than fifty (50) percent has deteriorated and is no longer structurally
sound as determined by the authority having jurisdiction, all roof sheathing
shall be replaced with 7/16-inch grade-stamped sheathing.
   Part IV Energy conservation. Shall be amended to replace Part IV with the
following:
   The provisions of the Illinois Energy Conservation Code - current edition
shall apply to all matters governing the design and construction of buildings
for energy efficiency.
   M1401 General. Shall be amended to add the following new Section M1401.6:
   M1401.6 Furnace repair. The use of furnace cement or welding for the repair
of a furnace heat exchanger is prohibited.
   M1504 Exhaust ducts and exhaust openings. Shall be amended to add the
following new Section M1504.4:
   M1504.4 Bath fan venting. Flexible air ducts shall be limited in length to
fourteen (14) feet overall from the termination point and contain no more than
to be the equivalent of one 90 degree turn with no offset greater than 45
degrees.
   M2005.4 Supplemental water-heating devices. Shall be deleted in its
entirety.
   P2501.1 Scope. Shall be amended to replace P2501.1 with the following:
   The provisions of this chapter and the current Illinois Plumbing Code,
including local amendments, shall govern the installation of plumbing. All work
shall be performed by State of Illinois licensed plumbers in accordance with
the Plumbing Licensing Act.
   PART VII PLUMBING. The following chapters shall be deleted in their
entirety:
   Chapter 25: Plumbing Administration, except amendments to P2501.1 Scope.
   Chapter 26: Plumbing Requirements
   Chapter 27: Plumbing Fixtures
   Chapter 28: Water Heaters
   Chapter 29: Water Supply and Distribution
   Chapter 30: Sanitary Drainage
   Chapter 31: Vents
   Chapter 32: Traps
   E3401.1 Applicability. Shall be amended to replace E3401.1 with the
following:
   All electrical systems, equipment and components shall comply with the
currently adopted edition of the NFPA 70 National Electric Code.
   PART VIII ELECTRICAL. The following chapters shall be deleted in their
entirety:
   Chapter 34: General Requirements
   Chapter 35: Electrical Definitions
   Chapter 36: Services
   Chapter 37: Branch Circuit and Feeder Requirements
   Chapter 38: Wiring Methods
   Chapter 39: Power and Lighting
   Chapter 40: Devices and Luminaires
   Chapter 41: Appliance Installation
   Chapter 42: Swimming Pools
   Chapter 43: Class 2 Remote-Control Signaling and Power-Limiting Circuits
   APPENDIX F RADON GAS CONTROLS. Shall be amended to add the following new
Section AF103.4.4:
   AF103.4.4 Sumps. Sumps open to soil or serving as the termination point for
sub slab or exterior drain tile loops shall be covered with a gasketed or
sealed lid. Sumps used as a floor drain shall have a lid equipped with a
trapped inlet. Sumps shall have a minimum 1-1/2" diameter vent connected to the
radon vent pipe.
   AF103.5 Drain tile and sump used for depressurization. Shall be amended to
replace AF103.5 with the following:
   As an alternative to inserting a vent pipe into a “T” fitting, a vent pipe
shall be permitted to be inserted directly into an interior perimeter drain
tile loop where the drain tile or sump is exposed to the gas-permeable layer.
   AF103.12 Power source. Shall be amended to replace AF103.12 with the
following:
   In new construction, a simplex receptacle shall be installed in the attic
within five (5) feet of the vertical riser.
   APPENDIX I PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL. Shall be deleted in its entirety. (Ord.
2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-4-4: INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
The following sections of the International Fire Code, 2021 Edition are hereby
amended as follows:
   In all Chapters and Sections, where “name of jurisdiction” and/or “chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction” is written, insert “City of
Sycamore.”
   [A] 104.1 Enforcement Officer. Shall be amended to replace [A] 104.1 with
the following: It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Fire Chief or
his/her designee and the Director of Community Development or his/her designee,
to enforce the provisions of the Fire Code, as set forth herein. The aforesaid
officials are herein referred to as the “Fire Code Officials.”
   307.1.1 Open burning. Shall be amended to replace 307.1.1 with the
following:
   Open burning shall be prohibited within the City of Sycamore corporate
boundaries.
   Exceptions:
   1.   Recreational fires in accordance with Section 4-1-11 of the Sycamore
Municipal Code.
   2.   As approved by the Fire Code Official.
   308.1.4 Open-flame cooking devices. Shall be amended to replace 308.1.4 with
the following:
   Charcoal burners and other open-flame cooking devices shall not be operated
on combustible balconies or within 10 feet (3048 mm) of combustible
construction.
   Exceptions:
   1.   One- and two-family dwellings.
   2.   Where buildings, balconies and decks are protected by an automatic
sprinkler system.
   308.1.6.3 Sky Lanterns. Shall be amended to replace 308.1.6.3 with the
following:
   A person shall not release or cause to be released sky lanterns or any other
airborne flame producing device.
   506 Key boxes. Shall be amended to replace 506 with the following:
   1.   Key lock box required. Key Lock Box systems shall be installed on all
new commercial and/or manufacturing/industrial property and all existing
commercial and/or manufacturing/industrial buildings which undergo remodel that
would require the issuance of a building permit. In commercial structures that
have multiple occupancies a Knox Box shall be required for each storefront. In
addition, a Knox Box shall be required for multi-family residential structures
that have restricted access through locked doors and have a common corridor for
access to the living units.
   2.   Key box. When properties in the City or Fire Protection District are
required to have a key box, a Knox or other UL approved box, the property owner
shall purchase and install the key box and the Fire Chief or his/her designee,
shall approve:
      a.   The equipment being installed; and,
      b.   The location where the equipment is being installed.
   3.   Contents. The key box shall contain:
      a.   Keys to locked points of ingress whether on the interior or exterior
of such buildings;
      b.   Keys to locked mechanical equipment rooms;
      c.   Keys to locked electrical rooms;
      d.   Keys to elevator controls;
      e.   Keys necessary to operate fire alarm control panels;
      f.   Keys to other areas as directed by the Fire Department.
   804.1.1 Testing in accordance with NFPA 286. Shall be deleted in its
entirety.
   903.2.11.1 Stories without openings. Shall be amended to add the following
new #3:
   3.   An interior stairway that conforms to requirements of Section 1005 with
a fire separation assembly enclosure of not less than 1 hour, which has a door
directly to the exterior and the stairway does not connect more than two (2)
stories.
   The basement or windowless story floor level shall be fifteen (15) feet
(4572 mm) or less vertically from the exterior door threshold level and the
door threshold shall be within ten (10) feet (3048 mm) of grade. Interior stair
doors or openings shall be provided in each fifty (50) linear feet (15240 mm)
or fraction thereof on at least one side of the basement or windowless story.
   906.3 Size and distribution. Shall be amended to replace 906.3 with the
following:
   A portable fire extinguisher shall be installed in the following locations
in accordance with NFPA 10 and in the additional locations specified in 906.1
of the International Fire Code.
FIRE EXTINGUISHER REQUIREMENTS
Use Group                  Minimum Size           Max. Travel Distance to
                                                  Extinguisher
Groups A, B, E, I-1, I-2,  2A40BC                 75 feet and located near
M, R-1, R-2, U                                    every exit
Groups F & S               3A40BC                 75 feet and located near
                                                  every exit
Group H                    4A60BC                 30 feet and located near
                                                  every exit
                                                  75 feet and located in each
Group R-1 and R-2          2A40BC                 common hallway and common
                                                  habitable area
Cooking areas in Groups R- 1A10BC                 In each kitchen area
1, R-2, and R-4
Other                      As deemed necessary by As deemed necessary by Code
                           Code Official          Official
 
   912.6 Backflow protection. Shall be amended to replace 912.6 with the
following:
   A water supply serving a fire suppression system shall be protected against
backflow as required by the Illinois Plumbing Code, Current Edition.
   5601.1.3.1 Indoor pyrotechnic special effects. Shall be amended to add the
following new #3:
   3.   The display of pyrotechnic special effects within indoor areas shall be
prohibited.
   5601.2.2 Sale and retail display. Shall be amended to replace 5601.2.2 with
the following:
   Persons shall not construct a retail display nor offer for sale explosives,
explosive materials, or fireworks (1.3G or 1.4G).
   5608.1 General. Shall be amended to replace 5608.1 with the following:
   Outdoor fireworks displays. The use of pyrotechnics before a proximate
audience and pyrotechnic special effects in motion picture, television,
theatrical, and group entertainment productions shall be reviewed and approved
by the Fire Code Official and shall comply with Section 5608.2 through 5608.10,
NFPA 1123, NFPA 1126 and all governing federal, state, and local laws and
ordinances. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-4-5: INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE:
The following sections of the International Plumbing Code, 2021 Edition are
hereby revised as follows:
   In all Chapters and Sections, where “name of jurisdiction” and/or “chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction” is written, insert “City of
Sycamore.”
   101.2 Scope. Shall be amended to replace 101.2 with the following:
   The provisions of the International Plumbing Code shall apply only to
Chapter 11 Storm Drainage and Section 403.3.2 Prohibited toilet room location -
“Toilet rooms shall not open directly into a room used for the preparation of
food for service to the public.”
   1101.2 Inside storm drainage conductors. Shall be amended to add the
following new Section 1101.2.1:
   1102.2.1 Window well and areawell drains. No window well or areaway drains
shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system. (1988 Code §22.106)
   1104.2 Floor drains. Shall be amended to add the following new Section
1104.2.1:
   1104.2.1 Floor drain connection. All interior floor drains shall be
connected to the sanitary sewer system. (1988 Code §22.104)
   1105 Roof drains. Shall be amended to add the following new Section 1105.3:
   1105.3 Downspouts. All downspouts or roof drains shall discharge onto the
ground or be connected to storm sewer. No downspouts or roof drains shall be
connected to the sanitary sewers. (1988 Code §22.102)
   1112.1 Building subdrains. Shall be amended to add the following new Section
1112.1.1:
   1112.1.1 Footing drains. Footing drains shall be connected to sump pump
receptors and sump pump discharge shall be made into storm sewers by approved
underground piping when storm sewers are available on the property. When storm
sewers are not available on the property, discharge may be upon the ground to a
drain swale or ditch. No footing drain discharge shall be upon a public way or
into the sanitary sewer system. (Ord. 95.67, 1-22-1996)
   1113.1 Pumping system. Shall be amended to add the following new Section
1113.1.5:
   1113.1.5 Sump pumps. Sump shall be used for one function only, either the
discharge of stormwaters or the discharge of sanitary sewage. (1988 Code §
22.105; amd. Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-4-6: INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE:
The following sections of the International Mechanical Code, 2021 Edition are
hereby revised as follows:
   In all Chapters and Sections, where “name of jurisdiction” and/or “chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction” is written, insert “City of
Sycamore.”
   603.6.1.1 Duct length. Shall be amended to replace 603.6.1.1 with the
following:
   Flexible air ducts shall be limited in length to fourteen (14) feet overall
from the termination point and contain no more than to be the equivalent of one
90 degree turn with no offset greater than 45 degrees. All flexible air ducts
shall be of the insulated type. Flexible ducts shall only be used for branches.
   603.6.2.1 Connector length. Shall be amended to replace 603.6.2.1 with the
following:
   Flexible air connectors shall be limited in length to fourteen (14) feet
overall from termination point and contain no more than the equivalent of one
90 degree turn with no offset greater than 45 degrees. All flexible air
connectors shall be of the insulated type. Flexible ducts shall only be used
for branches.
   918 Forced air warm furnaces. Shall be amended to add the following new
Section 918.7:
   918.7 Furnace cement or welding. The use of furnace cement or welding for
the repair of furnace heat exchangers is prohibited. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-4-7: INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE:
The following sections of the International Fuel Gas Code, 2021 Edition are
hereby revised as follows:
   In all Chapters and Sections, where “name of jurisdiction” and/or “chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction” is written, insert “City of
Sycamore.”
   404.2 CSST. Shall be amended to add the following new Section 404.2.1:
   404.2.1 Corrugated stainless steel tubing. Corrugated stainless steel tubing
(CSST) shall not be installed underground and/or outdoors.
   404.3 Prohibited locations. Shall be amended to replace 404.3 with the
following:
   Piping shall not be installed in or through a ducted supply, return or
exhaust, or a clothes chute, chimney or gas vent, dumbwaiter or elevator shaft.
Piping installed downstream of the point of delivery shall not extend through
any townhouse or residential unit other than the unit served by such piping.
   404.9 Above-ground outdoor piping. Shall be amended to add the following new
Section 404.9.1:
   404.9.1. Roof locations. Gas piping installed on roof surfaces shall be
painted yellow. Paint and application method shall be approved by the code
official.
   503.4.1 Plastic piping. Shall be amended to add the following new Section
503.4.1.2:
   503.4.1.2 Vent piping. Vinyl flexible vent piping shall not be used in the
following applications:
   1.   In clothes dryers as a transitional exhaust duct hook-up.
   2.   As part of an exhaust system discharge where any or all of the
following exhaust conditions occur: addition of heat or cooling, moisture,
debris, or where a combination of any of the aforementioned is present in the
exhausting air. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-4-8: INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE:
The following sections of the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2021
Edition are hereby revised as follows:
   In all Chapters and Sections, where “name of jurisdiction” and/or “chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction” is written, insert “City of
Sycamore.”
   202 Definitions. Shall be amended to add the following definition:
   SWIMMING POOL. Any structure intended for swimming or recreational bathing
that contains water over twenty-four (24) inches deep. This includes in-ground,
above-ground and on-ground swimming pools, hot tubs, and spas. (Ord. 2024.24,
10-21-2024)
9-4-9: INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
The following sections of the International Existing Building Code, 2021
Edition are hereby revised as follows:
   In all Chapters and Sections, where “name of jurisdiction” and/or “chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction” is written, insert “City of
Sycamore.” (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-4-10: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code, 2021
Edition are hereby revised as follows:
   In all Chapters and Sections, where “name of jurisdiction” and/or “chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction” is written, insert “City of
Sycamore.” (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-4-11: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
The following sections of the National Electrical Code, 2023 Edition are hereby
revised as follows:
   In all Chapters and Sections, where “name of jurisdiction” and/or “chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction” is written, insert “City of
Sycamore.”
   Listing, Labeling. Previous amendment shall be deleted.
   210.8(A) Shall be amended to add the following Exception No. 5:
   Exception No. 5: Sump Pumps/Ejector Pumps. All sump pumps and ejector pumps
shall be served by a simplex receptacle and no GFCI protection is required.
   210.11(C)(3) Bathroom Branch Circuits. Shall be amended to add the following
clarification:
   The 20 A GFCI circuit required in bathrooms shall serve a single bathroom.
   210.12(B) Dwelling Units. Shall be amended to add the following Exception
No. 3:
   Exception No. 3: Arc fault protection is not required for sump pumps,
ejector pumps, furnaces, main kitchen refrigerators, freezers or any circuit as
approved by the electrical inspector.
   210.19(C) Household Ranges and Cooking Appliances. Shall be amended to add
the following new (1):
      (1)   All microwaves shall be served by a 20A dedicated circuit.
   210.52(C)(2) Island and Peninsular Countertops and Work Surfaces. Shall be
amended to add the following exception:
   Exception: Island receptacles shall be permitted to be mounted not more than
8" below the countertop and not covered by more than 6" of overhang.
   250.53(A)(2) Supplemental Electrode Required. Shall be amended to delete the
Exception. A second ground rod shall be required.
   ADD 300.1 Mixed use and occupancy buildings. Shall be amended to add the
following new (D):
      (D)   The entire mixed use and occupancy building shall be wired by the
most restrictive code.
   314.27(A)(2) Ceiling Outlets. Shall be amended to add the following:
   In all habitable rooms with a ceiling fixture (other than recessed fixtures,
smoke detectors, or carbon monoxide detectors), a box rated for ceiling fan
support shall be installed.
   320 Armored Cable: Type AC. Shall be deleted in its entirety.
   334.10 Uses permitted. Shall be deleted and amended to add the following:
   Type NM and Type NMC cables shall be permitted only in R-2, R-3, and R-
4 structures (as defined by the International Building Code) not exceeding
three floors above grade.
   338 Service-Entrance Cable; Type SE and USE. Shall be deleted and amended to
add the following:
   Type SE cables shall only be permitted to be used in temporary wiring in
accordance with NEC Article 590. (Ord. 2024.24, 10-21-2024)
9-4-12: ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE:
The following sections of the Illinois Plumbing Code, 2014 Edition are hereby
revised as follows:
   In all Chapters and Sections, where “name of jurisdiction” and/or “chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction” is written, insert “City of
Sycamore.”
   Section 890.180 Sewer and Water Pipe Installation. Shall be amended to add
the following subsection h):
      h)   All buried nonmetallic water service pipe shall be installed with a
parallel tracer wire per city specifications to be used for locating the pipe
after burial.
   Section 890.1130 Protection of Potable Water. Shall be amended to add the
following subsection c) 1):
      c)   1)   Any Building intended for use other than as a residential
dwelling shall have a properly sized Reduced Pressure Zone Backflow Prevention
Assembly installed immediately downstream of the water meter. Results of the
initial test of the RPZ assembly must be submitted to the Sycamore Water
Department (or its designated agent), and a copy forwarded to the building
department, prior to final occupancy.
   Section 890.1150 Water Service Pipe Installation. Shall be amended to
replace subsection a) 3) with the following:
      a)   3)   The minimum depth for any water service pipe shall be 66
inches.
   Section 890.1200 Water Service Sizing. Shall be amended as follows:
   Subsection a) - Delete “Water service pipe and fittings shall be at least ¾
inch diameter” and replace with “Water service pipe and fittings shall be at
least 1 inch diameter”.
   890.1210 Design of a Building Water Distribution System. Shall be amended to
add the following subsection j):
      j)   All new family dwellings shall have provisions made for water
softener installation. The piping shall have a three (3) valve bypass arranged
to provide softened water to all fixtures except for outside lawn hydrants,
sill cocks, and cold-water supply to kitchen sink. Connections and provisions
shall be made for a properly sized and vented drain within five (5) feet of
water softener. Bypass connections for future use shall be connected to form a
continuous loop. Exceptions must be requested in writing to the Building and
Engineering department.
   890.1360 Sanitary Wastes below Sewer. Shall be amended as follows:
   Delete a) 1) and replace with:
   In all new buildings with plumbing fixtures or drains located below the
outside grade, and buildings undergoing renovation to the plumbing system below
the outside grade, such fixtures or drains shall discharge into a gas-tight,
covered and vented sump from which the waste shall be lifted and discharged
into a sanitary waste drain by automatic sewage ejection pumping equipment
(overhead sewer). (See Appendix J. Illustration K.) Delete subsection b) and
replace with: Design. Sump and pumping equipment shall be designed and
installed to discharge, during the pumping cycle, all contents (including
future rough-in fixtures) accumulated in the sump except for sump contents that
must remain in the sump for the continued proper operation of the pumping
equipment (e.g., contents needed to submerge or prime the pump) according to
the manufacturer’s recommendations.
   Section 890.1370 Floor Drains. Shall be amended to add the following
subsection a) 6).
      a)   6)   When installed above living and/or occupied areas, water
heaters and/or clothes washing machines shall have impervious flooring and a
floor drain (minimum 2" diameter) installed in the same room as the appliance.
Alternatively, the appliance may be equipped with a safe pan with a minimum 2"
trapped and vented drain.
   Section 890.1910 Inspections. Shall be amended to add the following
subsection a):
      a)   At the time of inspection, all newly installed or modified piping
for potable water distribution shall be pressurized with the static water
pressure supplied by the municipal water system. Alternatively, the water
piping may be tested by filling with 100 psi compressed air.
   Appendix A. Shall be amended to delete agency note 4 for Approved Building
Drainage/Vent Pipe and replace as follows:
   PVC pipe with cellular core is approved only for gravity drainage and
venting and shall be approved for above ground use only.
   Approved Materials for Building Sewer. Shall be amended and replaced with
the following:
   The building sewer, including all pipe and fittings, shall be either
standard strength or extra heavy cast iron soil pipe (ASTM A74-2009) with
approved gaskets or cement lined bituminous coated ductile iron pipe, class 52
or greater, (ASTM A377-2008e1) with slip seal or push-on joints or extra heavy
wall PVC SDR-26 plastic pipe, (ASTM D 3034-2008), with gasket joints (ASTM D
3212-2013 and F477). No solvent cemented joints will be permitted, except when
transitioning from PVC schedule 40 building drain to SDR-26 Building sewer.
(See Section 890.180)
   Approved Materials for Water Service Pipe. Shall be amended and replaced
with the following:
   Water service pipe with a diameter of two inches (2") or less shall be
either: Copper/copper alloy - type K, (ASTM B42-2010 or ASTM B88-2009) or
Polyethylene (ASTM D2239-2012A or ASTM D2737-2012a).
   Water service pipe with a diameter greater than two inches (2") shall be
ductile cast iron pipe, class 52 or greater (ASTM A377-2008e1). (Ord. 2024.24,
10-21-2024)
9-4-13: ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING ACT:
The following sections of the Electric Vehicle Charging Act are amended as
follows:
   765 ILCS 1085/15, Sec. 15. Definitions: Shall be deleted in its entirety and
replaced with the following:
   Detached single-family residence. A free-standing building on a single lot
consisting of (1) dwelling unit with off-street parking. Commonly referred to
as a single-family home.
   Attached two-family residence. A building on a single lot consisting of two
(2) dwelling units with separate entrances on the ground floor and off-street
parking for each residence. Commonly referred to as a duplex.
   Attached single-family residence. A building on a single lot consisting of
three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) dwelling units with separate entrances
on the ground floor and off-street parking for each residence. Commonly
referred to as a townhouse or condominium.
   Multiple-family residential building. A building on a single lot consisting
of three (3) or more dwelling units with varying arrangements of entrances and
party walls, one or more dwelling units that do not occupy the ground floor and
a common off-street parking area. Commonly referred to as multi-family or an
apartment building.
   EV-capable. Parking spaces that have electrical panel capacity, conduit and
outlet box installed upon completion of construction to support future
implementation of electric vehicle charging with 208-volt/240-volt or greater
and 40-ampere or greater circuits.
   765 ILCS 1085/20, Sec. 20. EV-capable parking space requirement: Shall be
deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
   New detached single-family, attached two-family and attached single-family
residences: One (1) EV-capable off-street parking space shall be provided for
each residential unit.
   765 CS 1085/25, Sec. 25. Residential Requirements. Shall be deleted in its
entirety and replaced with the following:
      (a)   New multi-family residential buildings: Ten percent (10%) of the
total required off-street parking spaces shall be EV-capable. The required
percentage shall be split proportionately between open air and covered parking
spaces.
   765 ILCS 1085/30. Sec. 30. Electric vehicle charging system policy for unit
owners: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
   765 ILCS 1085/35, Sec. 35. Electric vehicle charging system policy for
renters. Shall be deleted in its entirety. (Ord. 2024.35, 11-18-2024)
CHAPTER 5
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definition
9-5-2: Permit Required
9-5-3: Requirements
9-5-1: DEFINITION:
Accessory Structure (Use): Shall mean a structure (use) customarily incidental
to and auxiliary to the use of a principal structure (use) on the same premises
with such principal structure (use). When the wall of an accessory structure is
a part of or joined to the wall of the principal structure such accessory
structure shall be construed as a part of the principal structure.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-5-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to construct any accessory structure without first
obtaining a permit from the Building Department indicating compliance with the
standards herein. In cases where hardship or practical difficulty in carrying
out the strict letter of this chapter is shown, the applicant for a permit may
petition the Board of Zoning Appeals 1
for a variance as provided for zoning matters.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 2 of this Code
9-5-3: REQUIREMENTS:
For requirements, please refer to the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO)
Article 6.2.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
CHAPTER 6
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Permit Required
9-6-2: Approval Of Route And Fees
9-6-3: Bond Requirements
9-6-4: Lights And Warnings
9-6-5: Wires
9-6-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall move any building on, through or over any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place in the city without having obtained a permit
therefor from the City Council. Applications for such permits shall be made, in
writing, to the Clerk and shall state thereon the proposed route and the number
of days it is intended that the building shall occupy any portion of any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public place. Before issuance of any special
permit for the above uses, the City Council shall refer the proposed
application to the City Planning and Zoning Commission 1
, which Planning and Zoning Commission shall be given thirty (30) days in which
to make a report regarding the effect of such proposed building or use upon the
character of the neighborhood, traffic conditions, public utility facilities
and other matters pertaining to the public health, public safety and general
welfare. No action shall be taken upon any application for a proposed building
or use above referred to until and unless the report of the City Planning and
Zoning Commission has been filed; provided, however, that if no report is
received from the City Planning and Zoning Commission within sixty (60) days of
the date of the public hearing, it shall be assumed that approval of the
application has been given by the said Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 1 of this Code
9-6-2: APPROVAL OF ROUTE AND FEES:
   A.   Inspection and Moving Fees:
      1.   For inspection of the shoring, raising, underpinning or moving of a
building: applicable fees shall be provided for in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      2.   Where it is necessary to move a building upon or across a public
right of way there shall be a fee provided for in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
   B.   Fee For Occupying Public Place: Upon approval of the intended route by
the City Council, a fee shall be issued for each day or fraction thereof that
it is intended that the building shall occupy any such portion of any such
public place shall be paid to the Clerk and the permit issued. Additional
payments may be charged for each day or fraction thereof over and above the
time stated on the permit during which any building shall occupy any such
public place shall be paid. Applicable fees are provided for in the City of
Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020;
amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
9-6-3: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Every person applying for a permit under this chapter shall submit with his
application a cash bond with a lawful corporate surety to be approved by the
City Council, conditioned on his compliance with all the provisions of this
chapter and agreeing to pay and holding the city harmless from any claim which
may be made against it by reason of the occupation of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place by the building or structure moved.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-6-4: LIGHTS AND WARNINGS:
Whenever a street or alley is blocked by a house or structure which is being
moved, warnings to that effect shall be placed by the Police Department, so as
to warn vehicles and persons from entering that portion of the street so
blocked. The person moving any building through the streets shall keep warning
signs and lanterns or lights on such building so as to guard against any person
or vehicle from colliding with it.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-6-5: WIRES:
   A.   Cutting: Whenever it shall be necessary to interfere with wires or
cables of a public utility in moving a building, the terms of any special or
franchise ordinance governing shall apply and the bond therein specified shall
be given. If no such terms apply, then the Mayor shall estimate the expense of
fixing the wires and the bond shall be given to cover such expense.
   B.   Fire Alarm Wires: When any moving building shall approach any fire
alarm wire or pole which shall be endangered by the removal of such building or
structure, it shall be the duty of the mover to notify the Fire Chief at least
six (6) hours before reaching such wire or pole so that they may be removed or
cared for by the city authorities.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
CHAPTER 7
EROSION SEDIMENT AND CONTROL
SECTION:
9-7-1: Purpose
9-7-2: Definitions
9-7-3: Requirements
9-7-4: Timing Of Implementation
9-7-5: Stabilized Construction Entrance
9-7-6: Perimeter Control
9-7-7: Inlet Protection
9-7-8: Stockpile Protection
9-7-9: Dewatering
9-7-10: Temporary Concrete Washout Facility Required
9-7-11: Street Cleaning Required
9-7-12: Curb Ramps
9-7-13: Maintenance Of Temporary Erosion Control Devices
9-7-14: Establishment Of Temporary Or Permanent Cover
9-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards for erosion
control and sediment control on construction sites, procedures for their
enforcement and to protect the City of Sycamore storm sewer system, properties
abutting construction sites, wetlands within the City of Sycamore, and waters
of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP'S): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices intended to
prevent or reduce the pollution of waters of the United States. BMP's also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
construction site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal or
drainage from raw materials storage. All BMP'S listed herein are excerpted from
the Illinois Urban Manual.
   CURB RAMP: A man-made ramp installed at the point of entrance/exit to a
construction site to facilitate travel from the street to the site.
   DEWATERING: The removal of unwanted or unneeded water from a construction
site.
   EROSION CONTROL: The control method used to prevent the loss of soil
particles from a construction site due to rain, wind or water flow.
   FINAL STABILIZATION: A uniform perennial vegetative cover with a density of
at least seventy percent (70%) of the native background cover for the area that
has been established on all unpaved areas not covered by permanent structures.
   PERMANENT COVER: Final stabilization of a construction site or residential
lot.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL: The practice of preventing sediment from leaving a
construction site in order to prevent water pollution.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF: Water that flows across land as a result of
precipitation, storm water runoff, snow melt and any other surface runoff and
drainage.
   TEMPORARY COVER: Temporary stabilization of a construction site or
residential lot when the soil disturbing activities on a project are suspended
for an extended period of time.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-7-3: REQUIREMENTS:
In accordance with the requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System, all construction sites must comply with the minimum
requirements of this chapter. If any site requires a Storm Water Pollution
Prevention Plan (SWPPP), that site must comply with the requirements of the
SWPPP unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-7-4: TIMING OF IMPLEMENTATION:
Prior to any excavation or grading of the site, all erosion control and
sediment control devices shall be in place where storm water runoff onto
abutting properties, public ways, wetlands, or waters of the State of Illinois
may occur.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-7-5: STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE:
All points of entrance/exit to a construction site shall be constructed of an
aggregate material to reduce the tracking of mud and dirt onto public streets
and shall be maintained as necessary.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-7-6: PERIMETER CONTROL:
All construction sites shall be protected on all downslope perimeters with silt
fence wherever storm water runoff may cause the erosion of soil onto abutting
properties and public ways.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-7-7: INLET PROTECTION:
All storm water inlets near or downstream from disturbed construction sites
shall be protected with a water permeable sediment control device and silt
fence shall be installed wherever sediment may overflow the curb into the
inlet. The inlet protection device shall be approved by the City Engineer and
shall be maintained as necessary. Inlet protection using geotextile fabric only
(i.e. a piece of fabric cut and placed under the lid) shall not be allowed.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-7-8: STOCKPILE PROTECTION:
Temporary stockpiles shall be protected entirely with silt fence or a similar
approved sediment control device to prevent the erosion of soil onto abutting
properties and public ways. Such sediment control shall be placed around the
stockpile within one (1) working day of temporary or permanent cessation of
earth disturbing activities.
Stockpiles that will remain dormant for more than thirty (30) days shall be
reduced to a height of three feet (3') and stabilized with mulch, vegetation or
other means. Such stabilization shall take place within seven (7) days of the
formation of the pile.
All stockpiles shall be located a minimum of fifty feet (50') away from
concentrated flows of storm water, drainage courses and inlets. Additionally,
no stockpile shall be constructed on impervious surfaces or under trees.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-7-9: DEWATERING:
Dewatering of sediment-laden water related to construction activity shall be
discharged into a temporary or permanent sedimentation pond on the project site
when possible. All water that leaves the construction site shall be managed
with the appropriate BMP's and shall not adversely affect downstream
landowners. Sediment-laden discharge water shall not be discharged into any
storm water conveyance system or body of water.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-7-10: TEMPORARY CONCRETE WASHOUT FACILITY REQUIRED:
All concrete spoils, liquid waste and solid waste shall be deposited into a
temporary or pre-fabricated washout facility. All washout facilities shall be
located a minimum of fifty feet (50') from concentrated flows of storm water,
drainage courses and inlets. For smaller sites, washout facilities shall be
located as far from drainage facilities as possible.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-7-11: STREET CLEANING REQUIRED:
All streets shall be cleaned daily of all sediment and spoils to prevent the
pollution of city storm water systems. If muddy conditions exist, periodic
cleaning may be required throughout the working day.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-7-12: CURB RAMPS:
All curb ramps shall be constructed using an aggregate material or device
approved by the City Engineer. Curb ramps constructed of dirt or any other
impermeable material are not permitted.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-7-13: MAINTENANCE OF TEMPORARY EROSION CONTROL DEVICES:
The City of Sycamore will inspect erosion control and sediment control devices
in conjunction with routine building inspections to ensure that the required
devices are installed, properly secured and maintained. The first inspection
will be conducted during the stakeout inspection and it is expected that
construction entrance is stabilized, perimeter control is installed and all
inlets near or downstream from the construction site are protected. All other
Best Management Practices (BMP's) will be verified at various other building
inspections and after significant rain events.
If it is determined that any required erosion control or sediment control
device is not installed, properly secured or not maintained, the corresponding
building inspection will be declared "Not Approved." If it is discovered that
sediment is eroding onto abutting properties, public ways, wetlands or waters
of the State of Illinois, a "Stop Work Order" will be issued in accordance with
section
1-9C-1C of this Code until such time that the sediment is removed, controlled
and the proper devices have been installed.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9-7-14: ESTABLISHMENT OF TEMPORARY OR PERMANENT COVER:
Upon completion of the construction project or if soil disturbing activities on
the construction site are suspended for an extended period of time, ground
cover shall be established in accordance with the following schedule:
   A.   Areas with a slope greater than 3:1 - Within seven (7) days.
   B.   Areas with a slope of 3:1 or less - Within fourteen (14) days.
   C.   Areas with a slope of 10:1 or less - Within twenty-one (21) days.
(Ord. 2019.20, 9-16-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Rules and Definitions
10-1-2: Jurisdiction
10-1-3: Approvals
10-1-4: Interpretation
10-1-1: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
The language set forth in the text of this Title shall be applied in accordance
with the following rules:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural and the plural singular.
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses and the future
the present.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word, "may" is permissive.
(1988 Code §9.104)
The following words and terms, wherever they occur in this Chapter, shall be
construed as herein defined.
   ALLEY: A public right of way located at the side or rear of properties,
which affords a secondary means of access to properties abutting upon a street.
   BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, parks, cemeteries, railroad
rights of way, drainage ditches or other similar natural boundaries.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line running parallel to the street right-of-way
line at a distance equal to or greater than the front yard requirement of the
Sycamore Zoning Ordinance.
   CROSSWALK: A right of way across a block or providing access within a block,
to be used primarily by pedestrians.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one open end and being terminated at the other
end by a vehicular turnaround.
   EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a portion of land by
others for a specific purpose or purposes.
   LOT: A parcel of land legally described as a distinct portion or piece of
land of record.
   PLAT, FINAL: A drawing submitted for the final approval of a subdivision of
land and which will be recorded.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A drawing submitted by the subdivider for discussion,
review and approval but not for recording purposes.
   STREET, COLLECTOR: A street of considerable continuity which carries traffic
from minor streets to secondary or primary streets, including the principal
entrance streets of residential developments and the principal circulating
streets within such a development.
   STREET, MINOR: A street of limited continuity, used primarily for access to
abutting properties and the local needs of the neighborhood.
   STREET, PRIMARY: A street that will provide for heavy traffic of
considerable continuity that is, or that will be, used as a connection between
various districts of the City and adjoining communities.
   STREET, SECONDARY: A street which carries traffic from such facilities as
schools, churches, shopping areas and employment centers to high population
densities and to primary streets.
   SUBDIVISION: A division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two (2) or
more lots, parcels or other divisions of land, or a resubdivision of a lot for
the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or building
development, including all changes in street or lot lines; provided, however,
that a division of land for agricultural purposes in parcels of more than ten
(10) acres, not involving any new street or easement of access shall be
exempted. (1988 Code §9.105)
10-1-2: JURISDICTION:
The subdivision regulations contained in this Title shall apply to any
subdivision of land within the corporate limits of the City or contiguous
within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits of the City. All
procedures for approval and required land improvements shall be in full
compliance with the regulations contained herein. (1988 Code §9.101)
10-1-3: APPROVALS 1 :
Any proposed subdivision, public street dedication or other dedication for a
public purpose shall be referred to the Plan Commission for review and
recommendation before any action is undertaken by the City Council. The final
approvals from the Plan Commission and City Council shall be signed on the
original tracing of the final plat. (1988 Code §9.102)
 
Notes
  1. See Section
1 2-1-5 of this Code for Plan Commission fees and subsection
  2-1-6B for compliance with the Official Map.
10-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
In interpretation and application, the provisions of this Title shall be held
to be the minimum requirements. Where the conditions imposed by any provisions
of this Title are either more restrictive or less restrictive than other
provisions from applicable laws, ordinances or other regulations of the City,
the provisions which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards
shall be applied. (1988 Code §9.103)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-2-1: Plat Approval Procedure
10-2-2: Preliminary Plat and Plan
10-2-3: Final Plat and Plan
10-2-4: Guarantee
10-2-5: Statement of Agreement
10-2-1: PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
In order to subdivide or resubdivide any lot, parcel or tract of land within
the jurisdiction of the City, the owner or subdivider shall follow the
procedures as set forth below. For the sale or exchange of parcels of land
between owners of adjoining and contiguous land in a recorded subdivision not
involving any new streets or easements of access, the owner will not be
required to submit the preliminary plat and plan and final plat and plan as
outlined below, but will be required to file with the City Clerk four (4)
copies of a certified plat of survey prepared by a licensed land surveyor in
Illinois showing the proposed division of lots for approval of the Plan
Commission and City Council and pay all applicable fees. (1988 Code §9.106)
10-2-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT AND PLAN:
   A.   Preliminary Plat and Plan Requirements:
      1.   Identification and Description of Proposed Subdivision:
         a.   Proposed name of subdivision not duplicating the name of any
subdivision heretofore recorded in the City.
         b.   Legal description of property.
         c.   Boundary line survey map clearly showing the proposed subdivision
and the total approximate acreage encompassed.
         d.   Name and address of owner and/or subdivider.
         e.   Name and address of registered land surveyor who is responsible
for survey.
         f.   Scale of plat (scale shall not exceed 1" = 100').
         g.   Designation of USGS datum.
      2.   Delineation of Existing Conditions:
         a.   Location and reference to existing monuments, survey markers and
benchmarks used in preparation of the preliminary survey (USGS datum shall be
used).
         b.   Existing zoning districts in proposed subdivision and adjacent
tracts.
         c.   Location, widths and names of all existing or previously platted
streets or other public ways, railroads, utility rights of way, parks and other
public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, easements, section
lines and corporate limits lines within the tract and to a distance of two
hundred feet (200') beyond the tract.
         d.   Location map showing boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or
subdivided land within two hundred feet (200') of proposed subdivision.
         e.   Location and size of existing sanitary and storm sewers, water
mains and appurtenances within the tract and to a distance of two hundred feet
(200') beyond the tract with the rim and invert elevations of all manholes and
catch basins.
         f.   Topographic data including existing contours at vertical
intervals of not more than two feet (2'), except in unusual topographical
conditions, vertical intervals of one foot (1') may be required, as determined
by the City Engineer.
         g.   Designation of any flood-prone areas with the projected 100- year
storm elevation, if available 1 .
         h.   Soil boring tests may be required at locations and depths as
determined by the plan commission and paid for at owner's or subdivider's
expense.
      3.   Design Features:
         a.   Layout of streets showing right of way and pavement widths and
street names (not duplicating the name of any street heretofore used in the
city and its environs unless such street is an extension of or in line with
another street, in which event that name shall be used) and showing proposed
through streets extended to boundaries or the subdivision. All streets shall
conform to the design standards contained in this title 2 .
         b.   Layout of all lots in subdivision showing lot and block numbers
in consecutive order and the width and depth of all lots.
         c.   Location of minimum building setback lines.
         d.   Location and widths of all utility easements.
         e.   Location and widths of crosswalks, if any.
         f.   Location and size of any parcels of land intended to be dedicated
for public use or set aside for use of the property owners in the subdivision.
         g.   Location, size and type of necessary streetlights.
         h.   Location and size of storm water retention or detention basin.
         i.   Preliminary location of all storm and sanitary sewer, water main
and all appurtenances to properly serve the proposed subdivision.
         j.   Preliminary site grading plan where required by city engineer.
(1988 Code §9.113)
   B.   Filing Of Preliminary Plat And Plan: (Rep. by Ord. 2002.95, 4-21-2003)
   C.   Plan Commission Action: The plan commission shall approve or disapprove
the application for the preliminary plat and plan as required by statute. (1988
Code §9.108)
   D.   City Council Action: If such preliminary plat and plan is approved by
the plan commission, the city council shall accept or reject said plat, as
required by statute. (1988 Code §9.109)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 11, Chapter 1 of this Code for flood control provisions.
2 2. See chapter 3 of this title.
10-2-3: FINAL PLAT AND PLAN:
   A.   Final Plat And Plan Requirements: The final plat shall conform
substantially to the approved preliminary plat and may include all or a portion
of the area contained in the preliminary plat; provided, that such portion
conforms to all of the requirements of this title and provides, as a minimum,
the necessary information, documentation and certifications as outlined below.
      1.   Name of subdivision not duplicating the name of any subdivision in
the city.
      2.   Scale of plat shall not exceed one inch to one hundred feet (1" =
100').
      3.   Legal description of property.
      4.   Certification by registered land surveyor to the accuracy of the
survey and plat.
      5.   Legend for iron pins and concrete monuments.
      6.   Layout of streets showing right of way and pavement widths and
street names (not duplicating the name of any street heretofore used in the
city and its environs unless such street is an extension of or in line with an
already named street in which event that name shall be used) and showing
proposed through streets extended to boundaries of the subdivision. All streets
shall conform to the design standards contained in this chapter. Streets which
are to be dedicated to the city shall be marked "hereby dedicated" on final
plat.
      7.   Layout of all lots in subdivision showing lot and block numbers in
consecutive order and the width and depth of all lots. The distance along lot
lines shall be expressed in feet and hundredths and when an angle occurs in any
lot line between lot corners, the measurement of the angle shall be expressed
in degrees, minutes and seconds. The final plat shall show accurately the
location of all permanent lot markers as installed.
      8.   Location of minimum building setback lines.
      9.   The lines of the subdivision shall be accurately correlated to
section lines or fractional section lines.
      10.   Location and widths of all utility easements.
      11.   Location and widths of crosswalks, if any.
      12.   Location and size of any parcels of land intended to be dedicated
for public use or set aside for use of the property owners in the subdivision.
      13.   There shall also be submitted simultaneously with the subdivision
plat, a study or studies which shall show topographically and by profile the
elevation of the land prior to the commencement of any change in elevations as
a part of any phase of subdividing, and additionally, if it is contemplated
that such elevations, or the flow of surface water from such land, will be
changed as a result of any portion of such subdivision development, then such
study or studies shall also show such proposed changes in the elevations and
the flow of surface water from such land. The topographical and profile studies
required hereunder shall be prepared as a subsidiary study or studies separate
from, but of the same scale and size as the subdivision plat and shall be
prepared in such a manner as will permit the topographical study or studies to
be used as overlays to the subdivision plat. The study or studies shall be
completed in such manner and detail that the requirement for a final grading
plan setting forth building elevations and lot drainage is satisfied.
      14.   The topographical and profile studies to be submitted with the
subdivision plat have on their face the certification of a registered
professional engineer and the owner of the land or his duly authorized attorney
to the effect that to the best of their knowledge and belief the drainage of
surface waters will not be changed by the construction of such subdivision or
any part thereof or, that if such surface water drainage will be changed,
adequate provision has been made for collection and diversion of such surface
waters into public areas or drains which the subdivider has a right to use, and
that such surface waters will not be deposited on the property of adjoining
land owners in such concentrations as may cause damage to the adjoining
property because of the construction of the subdivision. The topographical and
profile studies required herein shall not be recorded, but shall be retained
and filed by city to which submitted for approval of the subdivision plat, as
permanent public documents.
      15.   The final plat shall not be considered complete until the following
certificates have been duly executed upon said plat.
         a.   Surveyor's certificate of location and drainage.
         b.   Ownership certificate, notarized.
         c.   Plan commission certificate.
         d.   County clerk's certificate.
         e.   City council certificate.
         f.   Recorder's certificate.
         g.   Corporate owner's certificate should be accompanied by a
corporate form of acknowledgement. (1988 Code §9.114)
   B.   Submission Of Final Plat And Plan: Application for final approval of a
plat and plan shall be made as required by statute. The owner or subdivider
shall file with the city clerk four (4) copies of the final plat and plan
containing all required signed certifications, other than signed certificates
of approval by the plan commission, city council and recorder. The final plat
shall retain the overall characteristics of the preliminary plat and may
include all or part or the area shown on the preliminary plat. The city
council, at their next regular meeting, shall refer the final plat and plan to
the plan commission for final approval. (1988 Code §9.110)
   C.   Plan Commission Action: The plan commission shall make its
recommendation to the city council as required by statute. (1988 Code §9.111)
   D.   City Council Action: If the final plat and plan is approved by the plan
commission, the city council shall accept or reject said final plat and plan as
required by statute. If the final plat is approved, the owner or subdivider
shall record said plat, with the city receiving one reproducible plat and four
(4) copies each bearing evidence of the recording. The cost or the recording
and reproductions shall be at owner's or subdivider's expense. (1988 Code
§9.112)
10-2-4: GUARANTEE:
When the city council has approved the final plat, the signatures of the mayor
and city clerk shall be contingent upon the receipt by the city of a guarantee
from the owner or subdivider to assure the satisfactory completion of all the
necessary subdivision improvements. The form of guarantee shall be a certified
check or cashier's check, letter of credit or surety bond, as directed by the
city, payable to the city at one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the
necessary subdivision improvements as estimated by the owner and approved by
the city engineer. If the owner posts a surety bond, it shall have good and
sufficient surety therein and shall be approved by the city attorney. (1988
Code §9.115)
10-2-5: STATEMENT OF AGREEMENT:
Upon filing the final plat for approval, the owner or subdivider shall submit a
statement of agreement, that all subdivision improvements required by city
ordinances will be promptly completed by the owner or subdivider in accordance
with plans and specifications approved by the city engineer. (1988 Code §9.116)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Streets
10-3-2: Lots And Blocks
10-3-3: Easements
10-3-4: Contribution Of Cash In Lieu Of Dedication Of School Sites
10-3-5: Contribution Of Cash In Lieu Of Dedication Of Park Sites
10-3-6: Library Impact Fee
10-3-1: STREETS 1 :
The arrangement and location of streets shall conform to the comprehensive plan
and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets to
topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety and in their
appropriate relation to proposed uses of the area to be served. The design and
construction of streets shall be in accordance with the requirements of section
10-4-5 of this title and the design standards listed below:
   A.   Right Of Way Widths: The right of way widths for streets shall conform
to the following minimum dimensions:
 
Primary streets    100 feet
Secondary streets  80  feet
Collector streets  66  feet
Minor streets      66  feet
Cul-de-sac streets 66  feet with 131 feet diameter at turnaround
 
   B.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: A cul-de-sac street shall be avoided where
possible, but when approved, the length shall not exceed five hundred feet
(500') measured along its centerline from the point of origin to the end of its
right of way.
   C.   Street Offsets: Street offsets shall not be less than one hundred fifty
feet (150') centerline to centerline.
   D.   Street Intersections: All streets shall intersect each other at as
nearly right angles as topography and other limiting factors of good design
permit. An intersection of more than two (2) streets shall not be permitted.
Any type of partial cloverleaf intersection (eyebrow) or other similar
configuration will not be permitted.
   E.   Minor Street Alignment: All minor streets shall be so aligned that
their use by through traffic will be discouraged.
   F.   Curb Cuts: The number of curb cuts shall be restricted to provide for
traffic safety with the maximum width of a curb cut being thirty feet (30'),
with a minimum of fourteen feet (14'). (1988 Code §9.117)
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 7-1-16 of this code for street lighting requirements and section
  7-2-1 of this code for sidewalk improvement requirements.
10-3-2: LOTS AND BLOCKS:
   A.   Size Of Lots: The size of lots shall conform to the Sycamore zoning
ordinances for the particular zoning classifications.
   B.   Access To Lots: Each lot within a subdivision must have access to a
public street or private street.
   C.   Corner Lots: All corner lots shall have adequate width and depth to
permit proper building setbacks from both streets.
   D.   Configuration Of Blocks: The shape of blocks shall be determined by
existing and proposed street patterns, existing and projected traffic patterns,
lot depths and topographical features.
   E.   Width: Blocks shall normally have sufficient width to provide for two
(2) tiers of lots of the appropriate depths.
   F.   Length: The maximum length or blocks shall be one thousand eight
hundred feet (1,800'). The use of crosswalks will be specified by the plan
commission. The pedestrian crosswalks shall have a right of way width of ten
feet (10') and a paved sidewalk width of not less than four feet (4'). (1988
Code §9.118)
10-3-3: EASEMENTS:
All easements for utility distribution and drainage purposes shall be
designated on the final subdivision plat. All easements shall provide
continuity from block to block. The width of easements for gas, telephone,
electric and television cable shall be determined by the respective utility
companies but in no case shall said easement be less than five feet (5'). The
width of all easements for water main, sanitary sewer, storm sewer and drainage
shall be as required by the city, but in no case shall said easement be less
than twenty feet (20'). (1988 Code §9.119)
10-3-4: CONTRIBUTION OF CASH IN LIEU OF DEDICATION OF SCHOOL SITES:
As a condition of approval of final plat of subdivision or planned unit
development within the city's boundaries or outside the city's boundaries but
within its planning jurisdiction of one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the
corporate limits and not within any municipality, each subdivider (excluding
resubdivisions) or planned unit developer shall be required to contribute cash
in lieu of actual land for a school site in accordance with the following
criteria:
   A.   Criteria For Cash Contribution In Lieu Of School Site Dedication:
      1.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate number of students to
be generated by a subdivision or planned unit development shall bear directly
upon the amount of land required to determine the cash contribution to be
dedicated for school sites. The land dedication requirement shall be determined
by obtaining the ratio of: a) estimated children to be served in each school
classification (this number is determined by applying the estimated ultimate
population per dwelling unit table, as shown in subsection I of this section,
to the number of respective units in the development) over the b) maximum
recommended number of students to be served in each such school classification
as stated in this section, and then applying such ratio to the c) said minimum
recommended number of acres for a school site of each such classification as
stated in this section. The product thereof shall be the acres of land deemed
needed to have sufficient land for school sites to serve the estimated increase
in the number of children in each such school classification. For purposes of
this computation it is presumed solely as an estimate that each single-family
home will have three (3) bedrooms. For other dwelling units, such as townhouses
or apartments, it is presumed that each have two (2) bedrooms. The final amount
shall be determined by the school district based on the building permit
application for each lot.
Example: Development A will generate 60 elementary students
 
Estimated children per
school classification    Minimum recommendation per
Maximum school         x classification of school size = Acres to be dedicated
classification
recommendation
60                     x 15 acres                      = 1.64 acres
550 (K-5)
 
      2.   School Classification And Size Of School Site: School classification
and size of school sites required shall be determined in accordance with the
following criteria which is consistent with the minimum site recommendations of
the Illinois state board of education:
 
                         Maximum Number Of Students Minimum Number Of Acres Of
Classification By Grades For Each Classification    Land For Each School Site
                                                    Classification
Elementary K-5           550 students               15 acres
Middle school 6-8        750 students               30 acres
High school              1,500 students             80 acres
 
   B.   Contribution Of Cash In Lieu Of School Sites:
      1.   Required: The city shall require a cash contribution in lieu of land
dedication by the subdivider or planned unit developer.
      2.   Collection Of Fees:
         a.   The cash contributions in lieu of school sites shall be held in
trust by the school district which services the property to be developed, i.e.,
Sycamore Community Unit School District No. 427, hereinafter collectively
referred to as the "school district", or their successors. The funds collected
by the school district pursuant to this section shall be used only for: 1) the
purchase of real estate or structures for use as schools or educational
facilities for students in Sycamore, Illinois, and the school district; 2) the
construction of new buildings for use as schools or educational facilities for
students in Sycamore, Illinois, and the school district; or 3) the modification
of existing school buildings or educational facilities for students in
Sycamore, Illinois, and the school district. No other use shall be made of the
funds so collected. The school district shall conduct an annual audit, pursuant
to accepted accounting practices, of the funds collected and spent under this
section and publish the audit in a newspaper of general circulation in the city
of Sycamore, Illinois. Failure to publish shall not invalidate this section or
diminish the right to collect or hold funds.
         b.   The total estimated cash contribution to be required shall be
determined at the time the final plat is approved by vote of the Sycamore city
council and shall constitute a lien on the real property described in the plat
which may be foreclosed in a proper civil proceeding. The developer or
subdivider shall include the following language as a restriction on the final
plat:
The Education Fee Ordinance of the City of Sycamore, City Code Section
10-3-4, requires the payment of cash in lieu of land before issuance of a
building permit. The time and amount of payment shall be determined in
accordance with City Code Section
10-3-4.
Prior to execution of the final plat by the appropriate city officials, the
developer or subdivider, specifically including the beneficiaries of any land
trust, shall, as security for the payment as determined, provide the city with
an installment judgment note in the form as laid out in subsection F of this
section, which shall be due and payable in the event that the payments are not
paid when due. Prior to the issuance of any building permit the developer or
subdivider, or such assigns or successors in interest shall pay the school
district the amount of cash payment attributable to the land relating to the
building permit.
      3.   Fair Market Value: The cash contribution in lieu of land shall be
based on the "fair market value" of the acres of improved land in the area that
otherwise would have been dedicated as school sites. A single determination of
"fair market value" is not possible. The "fair market value" for any particular
parcel shall be determined to be ninety two thousand eight hundred twenty five
dollars ($92,825.00) per acre. This valuation shall be used unless the
subdivider, developer, or any public body files a written objection thereto. In
the event of any such objection, the subdivider, developer, or public body
filing the objection shall submit an appraisal showing the "fair market value"
of such improved land in the area of development or other evidence. Final
determination of said "fair market value" per acre of such improved land shall
be made by the city after a duly noticed hearing based on such information
submitted by the subdivider or developer and from other sources as may be
submitted to the city by affected parties.
   C.   Time Of Payments:
      1.   Territory Outside The City Limits: Where the territory in the
subdivision or planned unit development is located outside the city's corporate
boundaries but within its planning jurisdiction of one and one-half (11/2)
miles beyond the corporate limits and not included in any municipality, the
cash contribution required by this section shall be payable directly to the
school district when the city approves such subdivision or planned unit
development. If the subdivider or planned unit developer has made a
contribution of cash or land for a school site to the school district based on
the property sought to be approved under the ordinances of DeKalb County,
Illinois, the amount so paid shall be recognized as a credit toward this
payment.
      2.   Territory Within The City Limits: Where the territory in the
subdivision or planned unit development is located within the city boundaries,
a subdivider or developer shall make each cash contribution required under this
section directly to the school district. The school district shall issue a
receipt and release of lien as evidence of payment. No building permit shall be
issued for any improvements to be constructed on any lands affected by this
section unless a copy of such receipt is submitted with the application.
Issuance of the building permit without such payment shall be construed as a
waiver.
   D.   Density Formula: The table laid out in subsection H of this section,
being the same as estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit, is generally
indicative of current and short range projected trends in family size for new
construction and shall be used in calculating the amount of required dedication
of cash contributions in lieu of land unless a written objection is filed
thereto by the subdivider or developer. In the event a subdivider or developer
files a written objection to the table of estimated ultimate school population
per dwelling unit shown in subsection H of this section, he shall submit his
own demographic study showing the estimated additional population to be
generated from the subdivision or planned unit development and, in that event,
final determination of the density formula to be used in such calculations
shall be made by the city, based upon such demographic information submitted by
the subdivider or developer and from other sources which may be submitted to
the city by the school district or others. It is recognized that population
density, age distribution and local conditions change over the years, and the
specific formula for the dedication of land, or the payment of fees in lieu
thereof, as stated herein is subject to periodic review and amendment if
necessary.
   E.   Improved Sites: "Improved sites" are defined as all sites in a
condition ready for full service of electrical, water, sewer, and streets
(including enclosed drainage and curb and gutter) as applicable to location of
the site, or acceptable provision made therefor. The sidewalks and trees
normally included within the definition of "improved sites" shall be deleted
due to the delay time between dedication of any such school site and
construction of school facilities thereon.
   F.   Installment Judgment Note:
               INSTALLMENT JUDGMENT NOTE
On                 200   , for value received,                       whose
principal place of business is located at                      City of
                     , County of                     , State of
                     , herein referred to as PROMISOR(s) to pay to the City of
Sycamore, Illinois, a municipal corporation organized under the laws of the
State of Illinois, herein referred to as PAYEE, at 308 West State Street, City
of Sycamore, County of DeKalb, State of Illinois, as follows:
Dollars ($ ) with zero (0%) percent interest, payable in installments
Dollars ($ ) on or before the issuance of a building permit on every lot in the
subdivision or planned unit development commonly known as:                    
in the City of Sycamore, County of DeKalb, State of Illinois, beginning on the
issuance of the first building permit and continuing on the issuance of each
building permit thereafter until paid in full. If there is a default on any
payment when due, the entire amount of principal shall become immediately due
and payable at the option of PAYEE, without notice, and the principal balance
remaining shall thereafter bear interest at the rate of nine (9%) per cent per
annum from the date of default.
The PROMISOR(s), jointly and severally, authorize any attorney to appear in any
court of record of the State of Illinois, or any other state in the United
States, on default in any payment of any installment due on this instrument, to
waive the issuing and service or process, to admit the maturity of this
instrument by acceleration or otherwise, and to confess judgment against the
PROMISOR(s) in favor of PAYEE for the amount remaining to be paid on this
instrument, together with costs of suit and reasonable attorneys' fees, and to
release all errors and waive all right of appeal and stay of execution.
No judgment or judgements against less than all of the PROMISOR(s) shall be a
bar to a subsequent judgment or judgements against anyone or more of the
PROMISOR(s) against whom judgment has not been obtained on this instrument.
If the Maker consists of more than one person or entity, their obligations
under this Note will be joint and several. The Maker agrees to pay all costs of
collection when incurred, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys'
fees.
Presentment, notice of dishonor, and protest are hereby waived by all makers,
sureties, guarantors and endorsers hereof. The terms of this Note shall be
binding on the parties hereto, their heirs, executors, successors and assigns.
This Note will be governed by Illinois law.
In witness whereof, the PROMISOR(s) has (have) caused this note to be executed
on this            day of                 , 200     .
   PROMISOR(s)
                      
                      
   G.   Fees: Applicable fees are provided for in the City of Sycamore
Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      1.   Developer would sign an installment judgment note at the time the
development was given final approval. For purposes of the note, it shall be
presumed that each single detached family dwelling will have three (3) bedrooms
and for other dwelling units, i.e., townhouses or apartments, it shall be
presumed that each have two (2) bedrooms. The actual final amount due shall be
determined by the school district based on the building permit application for
each lot.
      2.   Each building permit would require a receipt from the school
district verifying payment of appropriate fee. Appropriate fee is based on
actual number of bedrooms and type of building.
   H.    Estimated Ultimate School Population Per Dwelling Unit:
   ESTIMATED ULTIMATE SCHOOL POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
                    Elementary Junior   Total    High
          Preschool Grades K - High     Grades K School               Total Per
Unit Type 4 - 5     5          Grades 6 - 8      Grades 9 - Adults    Dwelling
          Years     5 - 10     - 8      5 - 13   12         18+ Years Unit
                    Years      11 - 13  Years    14 - 17
                               Years             Years
                      Elementary Junior   Total    High
            Preschool Grades K - High     Grades K School             Total Per
Unit Type   4 - 5     5          Grades 6 - 8      Grades 9 Adults    Dwelling
            Years     5 - 10     - 8      5 - 13   - 12     18+ Years Unit
                      Years      11 - 13  Years    14 - 17
                                 Years             Years
Detached
house:
 2 bedroom  0.113     0.136      0.048    0.184    0.020    1.700     2.017
 3 bedroom  0.292     0.369      0.173    0.542    0.184    1.881     2.899
 4 bedroom  0.416     0.530      0.298    0.828    0.360    2.158     3.764
 5 bedroom  0.283     0.345      0.248    0.593    0.300    2.594     3.770
Attached
house:
 1 bedroom  0.000     0.000      0.000    0.000    0.000    1.193     1.193
 2 bedroom  0.064     0.088      0.048    0.136    0.038    1.752     1.990
 3 bedroom  0.212     0.234      0.058    0.292    0.059    1.829     2.392
 4 bedroom  0.323     0.322      0.154    0.476    0.173    2.173     3.145
Multi-
dwelling
structures:
 Efficiency 0.000     0.000      0.000    0.000    0.000    1.294     1.294
 1 bedroom  0.000     0.002      0.001    0.003    0.001    1.754     1.758
 2 bedroom  0.047     0.086      0.042    0.128    0.046    1.693     1.914
 3 bedroom  0.052     0.234      0.123    0.357    0.118    2.526     3.053
 
Source: Associated Municipal Consultants, Inc., Naperville, Illinois, 1996.
(Ord. 2003.87, 2-16-2004, eff. 2-16-2004; amd. Ord. 2016.20, 8-15-2016; Ord.
2019.41, 12-16-2019; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
10-3-5: CONTRIBUTION OF CASH IN LIEU OF DEDICATION OF PARK SITES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   COMMUNITY PARK: A large park, generally ten (10) acres or more in size, and
generally used by the residents of the city and park district.
   LOT: Land which is part of a subdivision or a parcel of land whose
boundaries have been established by some legal instrument, and is shown on a
map or plat thereof, which has been legally approved by the city council and
recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds of DeKalb County.
   NEIGHBORHOOD PARK: A small park, usually but not necessarily less than ten
(10) acres in size, and more than one and one-half (1.5) acres in size,
primarily providing recreational facilities by persons residing within one-half
(1/2) mile of such park.
   PERSON: A natural person, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
agency, organization, company, or any other group acting as a unit.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPER: Any person who, having an interest in land, causes
it directly or indirectly to be the subject of a special use permit for the
creation and maintenance of a planned unit development.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: Any parcel or tract of land, initially under
single ownership or control, that contains two (2) or more principal buildings
and is planned and constructed as a unified development where specific
regulations of a given zoning district are modified through the issuance of a
special use permit, except for amendments to an existing special use permit,
which result in less than a ten percent (10%) increase of dwelling units.
   RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: Any planned unit development which can
be used for dwelling purposes under the provisions of the zoning ordinance of
the city of Sycamore.
   RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION: A subdivision of land which can be used for
dwelling purposes under the provisions of the zoning ordinance of the city of
Sycamore.
   SUBDIVIDER: Any person who, having an interest in land, causes it, directly
or indirectly to be divided into a subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION: Any division of land, tract, or parcel into two (2) or more
lots, parcels, plats, or sites, or such other divisions of land for the purpose
of sale, lease, offer, or development, whether immediate or future, except for
divisions which are exempt from the provisions of the Illinois plat act, 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/1 et seq., and/or which result in less than a
ten percent (10%) increase in the number of buildable lots. The term shall
include the division of land whether by deed, metes and bounds description,
lease, map, plat, or other instrument.
   B.   Criteria For Cash Contribution In Lieu Of The Dedication Of Park And
Recreation Land: As a condition of approval of a final plat of a residential
subdivision or approval of a final special use permit for a residential planned
unit development within the city's boundaries or outside the city's boundaries
but within its planning jurisdiction of one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond
the corporate limits and not within any municipality, each subdivision or
planned unit developer shall be required to contribute cash in lieu of actual
land for parks and recreation sites and facilities in accordance with the
criteria set forth hereinafter. The requirements for cash contribution in lieu
of dedication of land shall only apply to: 1) lands situated in or contiguous
with both the city and park district boundaries, or 2) lands within the city's
planning jurisdiction of one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate
limits and not within any municipality (and owners and occupants thereof)
relative to which the park district is willing to allow all benefits of park
district facilities and programs on the same terms as if the lands were within
the boundaries of the park district, pursuant to an annexation agreement
between the residential subdivider or residential planned unit developer and
the park district. Unless the park district states to the contrary at a public
hearing with regard to a proposed subdivision or planned unit development, it
shall be presumed that the park district is willing to allow such benefits
pursuant to such an annexation agreement. The following criteria shall apply:
      1.   Population Ratio: The ultimate population density to be generated by
a residential subdivision or residential planned unit development shall bear
directly upon the amount of land required to be dedicated for park and
recreation sites and to determine the cash contribution required of such
dedication. The land dedication requirement shall be determined by obtaining
the total population of the development determined by application of table 1 of
this section, to the number of units of each type forecast the development, and
multiplying that number times 11.5 acres per one thousand (1,000) population
(10 acres per 1,000 population for community parks, and 1.5 acres per 1,000
population for neighborhood parks). The product thereof shall be the acres of
land deemed needed to have sufficient land for parks and recreation sites to
serve the estimated increase in the population. For purposes of determining a
contribution at the time of final plat or special use permit, it is presumed
that each single-family family home will have three (3) bedrooms. For other
dwelling units, such as townhouses or apartments, it is presumed that each will
have two (2) bedrooms.
      2.   Donation Requirement; Calculation Example: Development A containing
two hundred (200) detached single-family, three (3) bedroom (or more) homes
will generate a total population of six hundred (600) times the required
acreage/population = total acres.
Total 600 x 10 acres divided by 1,000 plus 600 x 1.5 acres divided by 1,000 = 6
acres (community parks) and 0.90 acre (neighborhood parks).
      3.   Credit For Prior Payment Or Dedication: When a subdivider or planned
unit developer would be responsible for a contribution of cash under this
section with respect to any lot and a contribution has, prior to that time,
been required under this section with respect to the land contained in the same
lot, or any part thereof, then the said subdivider or planned unit developer
shall be entitled to a credit against the then due contribution in an amount
equal to the total of all prior contributions with respect to said lot. If any
prior contribution was made with respect to land larger than the lot in
question, then the credit amount shall be calculated by the city, in its sole
discretion, on a pro rata basis approximating as closely as possible the
allocation of population over the larger land area.
      4.   Collection Of Fees:
         a.   The cash contribution in lieu of park and recreation land
dedication shall be held by the park district for the acquisition of park and
recreational land which will be available to serve the immediate and future
needs of the residents of that subdivision or development or for the
improvement of other existing local park and recreation sites and facilities
that already serve such needs. No other use shall be made of the funds so
collected. The park district, as part of its annual audit, shall conduct an
annual audit, pursuant to generally accepted accounting practices, of the funds
collected and spent under this section and publish the audit in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city of Sycamore, Illinois. Failure to publish
shall not invalidate this section or diminish the right to collect or hold
funds.
         b.   The total cash contribution to be required shall be determined at
the time the final plat or special use permit for a planned unit development is
approved by the Sycamore city council.
         c.   Prior to execution of the final plat by the city council, the
planned unit developer or subdivider, specifically including the beneficiaries
of any land trust, shall tender payment of the required contribution in the
form of a certified check or cashier's check payable to the Sycamore park
district.
         d.   In the event that the requirement for payment of the cash
contribution for park district fees is waived by the park district until the
time of the issuance of building permits, the building contractor shall pay
said fee directly to the park district at the district office. The park
district shall then issue two (2) copies of a receipt, one for the builder or
building contractor and one for the city, prior to the issuance of the permit
to build.
      5.   Refund: If any portion of a cash contribution in lieu of park or
recreation sites is not expended for the purposes set forth herein within ten
(10) years from the date of receipt, it shall be refunded to the lot owner or
owners of those lots for which the contribution was made, which owner or owners
are determined at the time the date of refund is established. Any such refund
will be paid only after application for refund by the owner, and proof that
such funds have not been expended, in such form as is acceptable to the city.
(Ord. 2001.87, 4-15-2002, eff. 5-1-2002)
      6.   Fair Market Value: The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be
based on the "fair market value" of the acres of improved land in the area that
otherwise would have been dedicated as park and recreation sites. A single
determination of "fair market value" is not possible, but a determination has
been made that, generally, the "fair market value" for any particular parcel of
improved land suitable for neighborhood park purposes shall be determined to be
ninety two thousand eight hundred twenty five dollars ($92,825.00) per acre,
and the "fair market value" for any particular parcel of improved land suitable
for community park purposes shall be determined to be eighteen thousand four
hundred fifty three dollars ($18,453.00) per acre. This valuation determined
shall be used unless the subdivider or planned unit developer files a written
objection thereto. In the event of any such objection, the subdivider or
developer filing the objection shall submit an appraisal showing the "fair
market value" of such improved land in the area of development or other
evidence. Final determination of said "fair market value" per acre of such
improved land shall be made by the City Council, after review by its Plan
Commission, after a duly noticed hearing based on such information submitted by
the subdivider or developer and from other sources as may be submitted to the
city by affected parties.
      7.   Density Formula: Table 1 of this section, being the same as
estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit, is generally indicative of
current and short range projected trends in family size for new construction,
and shall be used in calculating the amount of required dedication of cash
contributions in lieu of land unless a written objection is filed thereto by
the subdivider or developer.
In the event a subdivider or planned unit developer files a written objection
to the table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit, he shall
submit his own demographic study showing the estimated additional population to
be generated from the residential subdivision or residential planned unit
development, and, in that event, final determination of the density formula to
be used in such calculations shall be made by the city council, after review by
its plan commission, based upon such demographic information submitted by the
subdivider or planned unit developer and from other sources which may be
submitted to the city by the park district or others. It is recognized that
population density and local conditions change over the years, and the specific
formula for payment of fees in lieu of the dedication of land, as stated
herein, is subject to periodic review and amendment, if necessary.
(Ord. 2001.87, 4-15-2002; eff. 5-1-2002; amd. Ord. 2016.21, 8-15-2016; Ord.
2019.42, 12-16-2019; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
10-3-6: LIBRARY IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Cash Contribution: The municipality shall require a cash contribution
to the library board by a residential subdivider or planned unit developer
based on the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule
   B.   Use Of Funds Collected: The funds collected pursuant to this section
shall be used only for: 1) the purchase of real estate or structures for use as
a library or library facility for citizens in the Sycamore library district; 2)
the construction of new buildings for use as a library or library facility for
citizens in the Sycamore library district; or 3) the modification of existing
library buildings or library facilities for citizens in the Sycamore library
district. No other use shall be made of the funds so collected. The library
board shall conduct an annual audit, pursuant to accepted accounting practices,
of the funds collected and spent under this section and publish the audit in a
paper of general circulation in the city. Failure to publish shall not
invalidate this section or diminish the right to collect or hold funds.
   C.   Time Of Payment: The cash contribution required by this section shall
be payable directly to the library board when the city approves such
subdivision or planned unit development. The applicant shall deliver a check
payable to the library board at 103 East State Street, Sycamore, IL 60178,
which shall issue a receipt as evidence of payment. No building permit shall be
issued for any improvements to be constructed on any lands affected by this
section unless a copy of such receipt is submitted with the application.
Issuance of the building permit without such payment shall not be construed as
a waiver. (Ord. 2001.80, 4-1-2002; amd. Ord. 2016.22, 8-15-2016; Ord. 2023.04,
5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Improvements Required
10-4-2: Water Main and Water Services
10-4-3: Sanitary Sewer and Sewer Services
10-4-4: Storm Sewer and Storm Water Detention
10-4-5: Streets
10-4-6: Sidewalk
10-4-7: Street Lighting
10-4-1: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
All new subdivisions within the jurisdiction of the City shall be constructed
with all of the land improvements as specified in this Chapter. (1988 Code
§9.120; 1994 Code)
10-4-2: WATER MAIN AND WATER SERVICES:
The water distribution system and water services shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the requirements of Title 8, Chapters 2 and 3 of
the Municipal Code and the current City's Standard Details for Water Main and
Water Service Construction. (1988 Code §9.120)
10-4-3: SANITARY SEWER AND SEWER SERVICES:
The sanitary sewer system and sanitary sewer services shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the requirements of
Title 8, Chapter 4 of the Municipal Code and the current City's Standard
Details for Sanitary Sewer and Sanitary Sewer Service Construction. (1988 Code
§9.120)
10-4-4: STORM SEWER AND STORM WATER DETENTION:
The storm sewer system and storm water detention or retention system shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with the requirements of
Title 8, Chapter 6 of the Municipal Code and the current City's Standard
Details for Storm Sewer Construction. (1988 Code §9.120)
10-4-5: STREETS:
All public streets shall have curb and gutter on both sides and shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with the requirements of Title 7 of the
Municipal Code and the current City's Standard Details for Street Construction.
(1988 Code §9.120)
10-4-6: SIDEWALK:
All public streets shall have sidewalks on both sides and the sidewalks shall
be designed and constructed in accordance with the requirements of Title 7 of
the Municipal Code and the current City's Standard Details for Sidewalk
Construction. (1988 Code §9.120)
10-4-7: STREET LIGHTING:
All public streets shall be provided with street lights meeting all of the
requirements of Title 7 of the Municipal Code. (1988 Code §9.120)
CHAPTER 5
SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-5-1: Building Permits; Roadways Required
10-5-2: Occupancy Permits
10-5-3: Variations
10-5-4: Payment Of Fees On Annexation, Planned Unit Development, Or Subdivision
10-5-5: Penalties
10-5-1: BUILDING PERMITS; ROADWAYS REQUIRED:
No building permits shall be issued for any buildings or structures on any lot
until roadways providing access to the lot have been constructed or are in the
course of construction and are suitable for vehicular traffic. (1988 Code
§9.121)
10-5-2: OCCUPANCY PERMITS:
No occupancy permits shall be issued for any buildings or structures on any lot
until all required improvements have been properly completed, unless otherwise
agreed upon between the owner and/or builder and the city. (1988 Code §9.122)
10-5-3: VARIATIONS:
The plan commission may recommend a variation from the dimensional standards
and land improvement requirements as set forth in this title in instances where
there is sufficient evidence, in its opinion, of hardship, where topography
indicates or where otherwise provided by law. (1988 Code §9.123)
10-5-4: PAYMENT OF FEES ON ANNEXATION, PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, OR
SUBDIVISION:
   A.   The city shall require all petitioners for annexation, planned unit
development or subdivision of property to pay as an additional fee, the city's
attorney fees for legal work and expenses on submission of annexation, planned
unit development or subdivision petitions. Applicable fees are provided for in
the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. The city shall, in its sole
discretion, require the annexing owner, the developer or the subdivider to pay
the above described legal fee either: 1) prior to recording the annexation
agreement or final plat; 2) as the legal fees are incurred by billing the
annexing owner, developer or subdivider directly on receipt of the statement;
or 3) prior to incurring legal fees and expenses by requiring an escrow deposit
from which such fees and expenses can be withdrawn, with provision to make
additional deposits to maintain the initial escrow amount.
   B.   The city shall require all petitioners for annexation, planned unit
developments, subdivision, resubdivision, alterations to planned unit
developments, platting and replatting of property to pay as an additional fee,
a nonrefundable deposit as set out in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee
Schedule for the review of plans prior to annexation. In the event the proposed
improvements are approved by the city council, this amount shall constitute a
credit in the final accounting of review and inspection fees. In the event that
the proposed land improvements are not approved by the council, the deposit
shall be retained by the city. The engineering fee for the plan review and
inspection of the necessary public and private land improvements, excluding
buildings and other structures, shall be two and one-half percent (2.5%) of the
total estimated costs of all the required public and private land improvements
or shall be calculated on a dollar per hour basis, as determined by the city
engineer, excluding buildings and other structures, as prepared by the design
engineer and approved by the city engineer. The city's inspection of the said
improvements will be periodic.
   The city shall, in its sole discretion, require the annexing owner, the
developer or the subdivider to pay the engineering fee described above either:
1) prior to recording the annexation agreement or final plat; 2) as the
engineering fees are incurred by billing the annexing owner, developer or
subdivider directly; or 3) prior to incurring engineering fees and expenses by
requiring an escrow deposit from which such fees and expenses can be withdrawn,
with provision to make additional deposits to maintain the initial escrow
amount. Applicable fees are provided for in the City of Sycamore Consolidated
Fee Schedule. (Ord. 97.73, 4-27-1998; amd. Ord. 2010.36, 2-7-2011; Ord.
2023.04, 5-1-2023)
10-5-5: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this title shall be subject
to penalty as provided in the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule. (1988
Code § 9.124; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 97.55, 10-10-1997; Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
DEVELOPMENT IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: Base Flood Elevation
11-1-4: Duties Of The Building Commissioner/Zoning Officer
11-1-5: Development Permit
11-1-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
11-1-7: Protecting Buildings
11-1-8: Subdivision Requirements
11-1-9: Public Health And Other Standards
11-1-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
11-1-11: Variances
11-1-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
11-1-13: Penalty
11-1-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
11-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city by
the Illinois municipal code 1  in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   E.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   F.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 2008.59, 12-1-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-31-2.
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
flood. The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
11-1-3 of this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be required
include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations),
schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities, major roads
and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals,
petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not
necessarily limited to:
   A.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
   B.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   C.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   D.   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects;
   E.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
   F.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
   G.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks; and channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
"Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
   FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot (1') of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain, except where a
greater freeboard is required for a specific development in an approved
annexation agreement.
   FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the city of Sycamore, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Sycamore or that may be annexed
into the city of Sycamore that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The
floodplains of the city of Sycamore are generally identified as such on panel
number(s) 0164E, 0168E, 0175E, 0251E, 0252E, 0253E, 0256E, 0260E and 0275E of
the countywide flood insurance rate map of DeKalb County prepared by the
federal emergency management agency and dated January 2, 2009. Floodplain also
includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the community. The
floodplains of those parts of unincorporated DeKalb County that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Sycamore or that may be annexed
into the city of Sycamore are generally identified as such on the flood
insurance rate map prepared for DeKalb County by the federal emergency
management agency and dated January 2, 2009.
   FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency
management agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway for the floodplains of the South Branch of the
Kishwaukee River, East Branch of the South Branch Kishwaukee River and Blue
Heron Creek shall be as delineated on the countywide flood insurance rate map
of DeKalb County prepared by FEMA and dated January 2, 2009. The floodways for
each of the remaining floodplains of the city of Sycamore shall be according to
the best data available from federal, state, or other sources.
   FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the State Inventory of Historic Places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
   IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water
resources.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of section
11-1-7 of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
   NFIP: National flood insurance program.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SFHA: See definition of Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or
other improvement, was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date.
The "actual start" means either the first placement of permanent construction
of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a
substantial improvement, "actual start of construction" means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed.
Volunteer labor and materials must be included in this determination. The term
includes "repetitive loss buildings" (see definition of Repetitive Loss).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter in which the cumulative percentage of improvements:
   A.   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started, or
   B.   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
"Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
The term does not include:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided. (Ord. 2008.59, 12-1-2008)
11-1-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
existing data with better data and submit it to FEMA and IDNR/OWR for approval
prior to any development of the site.
   A.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the South Branch of the
Kishwaukee River, East Branch of the South Branch of the Kishwaukee River and
Blue Heron Creek shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
countywide flood insurance study of DeKalb County prepared by the federal
emergency management agency and dated January 2, 2009.
   B.   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH zone"
or "AO zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the countywide
flood insurance rate map of DeKalb County.
   C.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide flood insurance rate map of DeKalb
County shall be according to the best data available from federal, state, or
other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   D.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated DeKalb County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city of Sycamore, or that may be annexed into the city of Sycamore,
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance
study of DeKalb County prepared by the federal emergency management agency and
dated January 2, 2009. (Ord. 2008.59, 12-1-2008)
11-1-4: DUTIES OF THE BUILDING COMMISSIONER/ZONING OFFICER:
The building commissioner/zoning officer shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the city of Sycamore meet the
requirements of this chapter. Specifically, the building commissioner/zoning
officer shall:
   A.   Process development permits in accordance with section
11-1-5 of this chapter;
   B.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
11-1-6 of this chapter;
   C.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
11-1-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the "as built"
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   D.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
11-1-8 of this chapter;
   E.   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
11-1-9 of this chapter;
   F.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
11-1-11 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   G.   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
11-1-13 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   H.   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   I.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse;
   J.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   K.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   L.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies
of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for development
activities subject to this chapter;
   M.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   N.   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 2008.59, 12-1-2008)
11-1-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the building commissioner/zoning officer. The building
commissioner/zoning officer shall not issue a development permit if the
proposed development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   A.   The application for a development permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
11-1-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the building
commissioner/zoning officer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base
flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey
data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been
filled after the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map is not in
the floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current flood
insurance rate map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
The building commissioner/zoning officer shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance
rate map identification.
The building commissioner/zoning officer shall be responsible for obtaining
from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits,
approvals or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of
activity. The building commissioner/zoning officer shall not issue a permit
unless all other federal, state, and local permits have been obtained. (Ord.
2008.59, 12-1-2008)
11-1-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development, will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat
to public health and safety. The following specific development activities
shall be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the Illinois department of natural resources, office of
water resources statewide permit number 2:
         a.   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of 1.0 foot, and
         b.   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half foot (0.5') at a point one thousand
feet (1,000') upstream of the proposed structure.
         c.   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile.
         d.   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging, or relocating the existing channel.
         e.   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer
in the state of Illinois and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/
OWR permit.
         f.   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 3:
         a.   The permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier cells, or other
similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. army corps of
engineers.
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 4:
         a.   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge.
         b.   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge.
         c.   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream.
         d.   Supporting towers including foundation and poles shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris.
         e.   All disturbed areas shall be returned to preconstruction grades
and revegetated.
         f.   All Illinois commerce commission, national electrical safety
code, and federal requirements must be met.
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 5:
         a.   The boat dock must not extend more than fifty feet (50') into a
waterway and no more than one-fourth (1/4) of the width of the waterway and
shall not extend beyond the navigational limit established by the IDNR and
corps of engineers.
         b.   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet (10').
         c.   For L-shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
landowner's shoreline frontage nor fifty feet (50').
         d.   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet (10') of the projected
property line.
         e.   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices.
         f.   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water.
         g.   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with flotation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides, or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible.
         h.   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill.
         i.   Nonfloating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which will
minimize obstruction to flow.
         j.   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or corps of engineers.
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting the following conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6:
         a.   The following activities (not involving fill or positive change
in grade) are covered by this permit:
            (1)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells, or
septic tanks not crossing a lake or stream.
            (2)   The construction of light poles, signposts, and similar
structures.
            (3)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios, and similar structures.
            (4)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open
structures such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports.
            (5)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, nor ten (10) square feet in any dimension.
Only one such building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit.
            (6)   The raising of existing buildings, provided no changes are
made to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7:
         a.   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection.
         b.   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour velocity
of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the use of
riprap or other design measures.
         c.   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation.
         d.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8:
         a.   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of the
river, lake or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet (3') of cover shall be provided.
The river, lake or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition.
         b.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         c.   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the environmental protection act 1 , shall be provided
with shutoff valves on each side of the body of water to be crossed.
         d.   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten (10) days prior
to the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9:
         a.   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. "Urban
areas" are defined as: Areas of the state where residential, commercial, or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten (10) years. (The department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban.)
         b.   In addition to the materials listed in subsection A8a of this
section, other materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural areas
provided all other conditions of this permit are met.
         c.   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protection act 2 .
         d.   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank, or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, one thousand
feet (1,000').
         e.   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action.
         f.   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project.
         g.   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of the
bank.
         h.   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full width
and cross sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site.
For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the bank, toe of
the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the cross sectional
area of the natural channel be reduced by more than ten percent (10%) nor the
volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot of the
stream bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and
to lessen the quantity of material required.
         i.   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area.
         j.   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         k.   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            (1)   It is constructed in alignment with an existing seawall(s) or
gabion structure(s), and
            (2)   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot.
         l.   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state, and
federal laws and rules, and shall not be placed in a floodway.
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10:
         a.   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with the
requirements of the local floodplain ordinance.
         b.   The principal structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988).
         c.   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed five hundred
(500) square feet in size and must not deflect floodwaters onto another
property, and
         d.   Must not involve the placement of any fill material.
         e.   No construction shall be undertaken in, or within fifty feet
(50') of the bank of the stream channel.
         f.   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions.
         g.   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing structure
shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for review.
         h.   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11:
         a.   The affected length of the stream shall not either singularly or
cumulatively exceed one thousand feet (1,000').
         b.   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel, and
         c.   The cross sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
         d.   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            (1)   Removed from the floodway;
            (2)   Used to stabilize an existing bank provided no materials
would be placed higher than the existing top of bank and provided the cross
sectional area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than ten
percent (10%), nor the volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per
linear foot of stream bank;
            (3)   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain
area such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            (4)   Used to stabilize an existing levee, provided the height of
the levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            (5)   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            (6)   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         e.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12:
         a.   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            (1)   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the
backwater induced by the existing structure, and
            (2)   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         b.   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects, the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge.
         c.   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR.)
         d.   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the department's statewide permit number 9 (minor shoreline, channel and
stream bank protection activities) or statewide permit number 11 (minor
maintenance dredging activities).
         e.   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 13:
         a.   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state and local
authorizations.
         b.   The term "temporary" shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR.
         c.   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks.
         d.   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee, or dike across any
channel or floodway.
         e.   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or stream
channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents that
the temporary structure will meet the requirements of special condition number
3 of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum,
confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the backwater
induced by the temporary structure.
         f.   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition.
         g.   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction.
         h.   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution as
defined by the environmental protection act 3 .
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   B.   Other development activities not listed in subsection A of this section
may be permitted only if:
      1.   A permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required), or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 2008.59, 12-1-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5.
2 2. 415 ILCS 5.
3 1. 415 ILCS 5.
11-1-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of section
11-1-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alterations
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the
flood protection standards of this section.
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section.
      4.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      5.   “Repetitive loss” to an existing building as defined in section
11-1-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in accordance
with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         b.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure;
         d.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse materials; and
         e.   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary, stormwater management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawl space or other foundation that is permanently open to floodwaters;
         b.   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         c.   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2) openings.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base
flood elevation; and
         d.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored, designed
and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such as
current, waves, ice and floating debris.
            (1)   All structural components below the flood protection
elevation shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
            (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation, provided they are waterproofed;
            (3)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space; or
            (4)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      3.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         b.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade;
         c.   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade;
         d.   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the interior
grade of the crawl space to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four
feet (4') at any point;
         e.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event;
         f.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         g.   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   C.   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
      1.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      3.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
   D.   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection B of this section.
   E.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
subsection D of this section unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck;
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      5.   The vehicle’s largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet;
      6.   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement on the floodplain;
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation;
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model; and
      10.   Must either:
         a.   Entirely be supported by jacks, or
         b.   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by a block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   F.   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) in market value or replacement cost, whichever is greater, or less
than five hundred (500) square feet.
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 2008.59, 12-1-2008; amd.
Ord. 2021.29, 1-18-2022)
11-1-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The city of Sycamore shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they
are known, in all official actions related to land management, use and
development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of sections
11-1-6 and
 11-1-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain. Where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and laid
out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and channels.
Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or other
public grounds. (Ord. 2008.59, 12-1-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
11-1-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   A.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
11-1-6 and
11-1-7 of this chapter, the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
11-1-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   B.   All other activities defined as "development" shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 2008.59,
12-1-2008)
11-1-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained.
In addition, the city of Sycamore shall notify adjacent communities, in
writing, thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration
or relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 2008.59, 12-1-2008)
11-1-11: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the board of appeals for a
variance. The board of appeals shall review the applicant's request for a
variance and shall submit its recommendation to the city council. The city
council may attach such conditions to the granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   A.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that all
of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   B.   The board of appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of section
11-1-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge, in writing, the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   C.   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
11-1-7 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or "historic structure" as defined
herein may be granted using criteria more permissive than the requirements of
sections
11-1-6 and
11-1-7 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 2008.59, 12-1-2008)
11-1-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city of Sycamore or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully hereunder. (Ord. 2008.59, 12-1-2008)
11-1-13: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the building commissioner/
zoning officer may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this
chapter exists. The building commissioner/zoning officer shall notify the owner
in writing of such violation.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The city of Sycamore shall make application to the circuit court for
an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order
as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter;
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined in accordance with the City of Sycamore Consolidated Fee Schedule;
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      4.   The city of Sycamore shall record a notice of violation on the title
of the property.
   B.   The building commissioner/zoning officer shall inform the owner that
any such violation is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and
therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
The building commissioner/zoning officer is authorized to issue an order
requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop work order shall
be in writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work
order. The stop work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked until a
hearing is held by the board of appeals. Written notice of such hearing shall
be served on the permittee and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or revocation,
and
      2.   The time and place of the hearing.
At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present evidence
on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the board of appeals shall
determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent the city of Sycamore from taking such
other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 2008.59, 12-
1-2008; amd. Ord. 2023.04, 5-1-2023)
11-1-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the city council
to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance program including
ordinance 2000.30 passed on September 5, 2000. However, this chapter does not
repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in
the program. Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other
ordinance easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 2008.59,
12-1-2008)
 
