TAZEWELL COUNTY, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. LU-21-12, passed 9-29-2021; and
Res. LU-25-11, passed 9-24-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for Tazewell County shall be designated as “The
Code of Tazewell County” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   COUNTY. Tazewell County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Tazewell County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE FORCE. Shall be construed to include such persons in the employ of
the county as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter
be appointed and sworn as police officers.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of Tazewell
County.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state, or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized
public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The county code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners, principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Electronic Commerce
Security Act, 5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq., except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed:
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular;
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders;
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future; and
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the County
Board may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the county shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the County Board.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the county; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the County
Board or a certain county officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the county. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The county shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140 /1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
county for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNTY OFFICIALS
      
31.   COUNTY POLICIES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   COUNTY BOARD
      
34.   CODE HEARING UNIT
CHAPTER 30: COUNTY OFFICIALS
Section
County Administrator
   
30.01   Establishment
   
30.02   Intent
   
30.03   Appointment
   
30.04   Ad Hoc Search and Screening Committee
   
30.05   Vacancies
   
30.06   Removal
   
30.07   Qualifications
   
30.08   Compensation
   
30.09   Authority
   
30.10   Powers and duties
COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 30.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the position which shall be known as “County
Administrator” to advise, assist, act as agent for, and be responsible to the
County Board, hereinafter referred to as the “Board”, for the proper and
efficient administration of such affairs of the county as are assigned to the
position by the Board.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 3-1) (Ord. passed 11-18-1998; Res. 34, passed 11-29-2006;
Ord. E-14-76, passed 6-25-2014; Ord. E-16-73, passed 8-31-2016)
§ 30.02 INTENT.
   It is the intent of the Board to grant to the County Administrator only
those powers and duties which are administrative or ministerial in nature and
which are necessary to the property execution of policy as established by the
Board. No provision of this subchapter is intended to vest the County
Administrator any duty, or grant to the position any authority which is vested
by general law or this code with any other county officer. No provision of this
subchapter shall be construed to delegate or commit the county in any manner,
except as provided herein or by the express grant of authority by the Board. It
is the intention of the Board in adopting this subchapter only to create a
position to which may be delegated certain administrative duties to be
performed in and under its direction.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 3-2) (Ord. passed 11-18-1998; Res. 34, passed 11-29-2006;
Ord. E-14-76, passed 6-25-2014; Ord. E-16-73, passed 8-31-2016)
§ 30.03 APPOINTMENT.
   Upon the adoption of this subchapter, and subsequently upon the creation of
a vacancy in office of County Administrator, the County Board Chairperson shall
appoint an Ad Hoc Screening Committee (herein referred to as the “Committee”).
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 3-3) (Ord. passed 11-18-1998; Res. 34, passed 11-29-2006;
Ord. E-14-76, passed 6-25-2014; Ord. E-16-73, passed 8-31-2016)
§ 30.04 AD HOC SEARCH AND SCREENING COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Committee structure. The Committee shall consist of the County Board
Chairperson and six County Board members, in proportion to the two major
political parties or as approved by the consensus of the full County Board and
up to four elected county control officers and/or department heads. The elected
control officers/department heads shall be non-voting members of the Committee.
   (B)   Candidate recruitment. Following recommendations for the method of
process for soliciting, advertising, searching, and screening for the County
Administrator position from the County Board Executive Committee and subsequent
approval by the County Board, the Committee shall proceed with the search
process for the County Administrator position. The Committee shall not be
restricted in the method of soliciting applicants for the position for County
Administrator, including, but not limited to, professional employment
recruiters or non-government organizations. The Committee shall solicit
applications for the position of County Administrator, shall consider any
applications received, and shall recommend to the County Executive Committee no
more than three applications for consideration. All candidates shall meet the
minimum requirements as set forth in §
30.07. A deadline for submitting applications is to be set.
   (C)   Budget. The Committee shall be authorized for expenditures not to
exceed one-third of the County Administrator budgeted annual salary in the
County Administrator search process, including, but not limited to: contracting
with professional private or non-government executive recruitment agencies or
organizations; advertisement of the position vacancy; travel, lodging, and meal
expenses of candidates; a verification of final candidates’ references,
employment, and education background; a discreet criminal and credit history
background check, Committee member per diems, and mileage.
   (D)   Selection process. Once the deadline for submitting applications has
passed and all applications have been received, the selection process shall
begin. Principal steps for the Committee include: reviewing applications;
interviewing candidates and references; employment, education, criminal
background, and credit history checks for determining finalists; and conducting
such post-interview activities as second interviews and recommendations of
finalists.
   (E)   Reviewing applications. All resumes shall be acknowledged as soon as
they are received and the acknowledgment shall incorporate a broad timetable
that provides the Committee with adequate review time before finalists are
selected. Upon completion of the resume review process, the Committee shall
have narrowed the field of candidates to a smaller group for an initial in-
person interview.
   (F)   Assessment process. After first in-person interviews and taking in
consideration all the relevant information, work-related employment, reference
and employment history background checks, and including recommendations from
all members of the Committee, the field of candidates shall be narrowed to up
to five finalists.
   (G)   Candidate finalist process.
      (1)   The Committee shall confirm with each candidate that he or she has
been selected as a finalist. The continuing interest of the candidate is to be
confirmed. Each finalist will be advised the following: the nature of the
second and/or final interview process, including date and time; how many other
candidates are finalists; whether any are in-house candidates; and when a final
decision is expected. All information will be confirmed to the finalist in a
follow-up letter. The Committee shall mail a more complete package of
information to the finalist in advance of the second/final interview. The
information shall include the following current documents:
         (a)   Budget and latest county financial statement (Auditor’s report);
         (b)   Treasurer’s report;
         (c)   Revenue and expenditures report;
         (d)   Organization chart;
         (e)   County Zoning Code;
         (f)   Copies of County Board minutes for the previous three months;
         (g)   Any/recent bond prospectus;
         (h)   Personnel rules and regulations; and
         (i)   Chamber of Commerce information on area.
      (2)   The Committee shall instruct the finalists that they should handle
and coordinate all reservations and transportation within the time frame
scheduled for final interviews. The finalists will be offered reimbursement of
transportation, lodging, meals, and related expenses incurred in conjunction
with the interview.
   (H)   Second/final interview process. The second/final interview process
shall be well organized and the setting comfortable. This process shall not
only provide the Committee with an opportunity to improve its knowledge of the
finalist, but also influence the candidate’s interest in the position. The
finalist shall be questioned about a variety of matters, including, but not
limited to: overall work experience; specific accomplishments; career
objectives; alternative approaches to practical problems facing the county;
working relationship with the County Board, elected control officers, and
department heads; and clarifying all roles and responsibilities.
   (I)   Evaluation. The Committee shall rank the candidates based on an
employment evaluation point system and make a recommendation to the Executive
Committee of up to three top finalists for the County Administrator position.
The Executive Committee shall make a recommendation of the top three finalists
to the County Board. Voting by the Executive Committee shall be by roll call.
   (J)   Finalist background check. Before consideration by the County
Executive Committee, a more extensive background check shall be conducted by
the appropriate county authority or the contracted executive search firm and
with the advance knowledge and written authorization of the finalists. This
final background check shall include a verification of employment and
education, a discreet criminal background and credit history check, and if
possible, a site visit by Committee members to the finalist’s place of current
employment. If a site visit is not possible, reference checks should be
conducted of all references provided by the finalist and interviews with
individuals in the finalist’s current community.
   (K)   Selection process. The County Board will meet, following
recommendations of the Executive Committee, and shall choose a County
Administrator.
      (1)   The County Board shall consider the top-ranked candidate first.
Voting by the County Board shall be by roll call and votes from a two-thirds
majority of the members present and voting is necessary for selection of a
County Administrator finalist candidate.
      (2)   If the first top-ranked candidate fails to receive a two-thirds
majority of the votes of the members present and voting, the County Board shall
consider the next top-ranked candidate and continue until a candidate receives
a two-thirds majority of the members present and voting.
      (3)   If no candidate receives the two-thirds majority of the members
present and voting, the County Board shall consider the candidate(s) receiving
the most votes first omitting the candidate with the least number of votes.
Further ballots will be taken with the candidate receiving the least number of
votes omitted from the following ballot until a candidate receives a two-thirds
majority of the votes of members present and voting.
      (4)   Upon completion of the balloting, the County Board shall review the
County Administrator contract and make recommendations to the County Board
Chairperson. The County Board shall then authorize the Chairperson of the
County Board and the Screening Committee to enter into contract negotiations
with the County Administrator candidate finalist.
   (L)   Contract negotiations. Upon recommendations and authorization by the
County Board, the County Board Chairperson, State’s Attorney or designate, and
the voting members of the Search and Screening Committee shall enter into
contract negotiations with the County Administrator finalist candidate. After
successful completion of contract negotiations and after recommendations from
the Committee and State’s Attorney, the County Board shall consider and
authorize the County Administrator contract.
   (M)   Confidentiality. With advice and consent from the State’s Attorney,
the Committee shall determine, at the outset, the extent to which the
recruitment, interview, selection, and contract negotiation process will be
confidential. The Committee shall maintain appropriate confidentiality
throughout the process. The Committee shall take steps to be considerate of the
candidate’s current job security and long-term career opportunities. Applicants
should be informed that the county will want to contact their present employers
to conduct employment history checks and access the job they have done in their
current position. An employment history background and reference check,
criminal background and credit history check with written authorization from
the candidate will also be conducted by the county. These background checks
will be discreet and will not be conducted until it is clear that the candidate
(s) are going to be considered a finalist for the position. The disclosure of
the finalists names will be with consent of the finalists and will be
coordinated between the finalists and the Committee.
   (N)   Status reports. The Chairperson of the Committee shall report to the
full County Board at the regular monthly full County Board meeting the status
of the County Administrator search and screening process. The status report
shall include total number of applicants received, number of applicants
selected, number of finalists, and a current timeline for interviews and the
selection process. The Committee shall refrain from disclosing the names of the
candidates until the appropriate time as described in division (I) above.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 3-4) (Ord. passed 11-18-1998; Res. 34, passed 11-29-2006;
Ord. E-14-76, passed 6-25-2014; Ord. E-16-73, passed 8-31-2016)
§ 30.05 VACANCIES.
   The position of County Administrator shall be deemed vacant if the County
Administrator is, by death, illness, or other casualty, unable to continue in
office, or resigns or is removed from office. A vacancy in the office shall be
filled in the same manner as the original appointment. The Board may appoint an
Acting County Administrator in case of a vacancy or temporary absence or
disability until a successor has been appointed and qualified or the County
Administrator returns to office.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 3-5) (Ord. passed 11-18-1998; Res. 34, passed 11-29-2006;
Ord. E-14-76, passed 6-25-2014; Ord. E-16-73, passed 8-31-2016)
§ 30.06 REMOVAL.
   (A)   The County Administrator shall serve at the pleasure of the Board and
may be removed at any time by an affirmative vote of a two-thirds majority of
the members of the Board. The County Administrator may request in writing a
reconsideration of his or her removal. Any such request must be made in writing
and directed to the Chairperson of the County Board and must be received no
later than ten days after the removal vote. Within 31 days after the request
has been received, the full Board will meet to hear the appeal. The removal may
be rescinded by a two-thirds majority vote.
   (B)   During any lapse of this contract, the County Administrator may be
removed by a majority vote of the Board with no right of appeal.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 3-6) (Ord. passed 11-18-1998; Res. 34, passed 11-29-2006;
Ord. E-14-76, passed 6-25-2014; Ord. E-16-73, passed 8-31-2016)
§ 30.07 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The County Administrator shall be a person having demonstrated
professional, administrative and executive ability as shown by at least ten
years of experience in:
      (1)   Municipal or county government or non-governmental (NGO) sector
employment in responsible position(s) requiring the planning and execution of
administrative operations, budgeting and control of revenue and expenditures,
and coordination and leadership of diverse departments and functions, the
service to elected and/or appointed boards, commissions, councils or their
equivalent;
      (2)   Providing staff support to municipal or county government, its
standing committees, municipal or county chairperson/president or equivalent,
and elected control officers, board of directors, or their equivalent;
      (3)   Planning and executing an annual operating, capital projects, and
personnel budget;
      (4)   Administration of or overseeing employee insurance programs, pay
plans, and evaluation and assessment systems;
      (5)   Participation in or acting as a board/commission/council (or
equivalent) representative in the collective bargaining process with FOP,
AFSCME, or Teamsters Unions or equivalent; and
      (6)   Demonstrating excellent oral and written communications skills,
human relations and consensus building strengths, and labor relations skills
and abilities.
   (B)   The County Administrator preferably will possess a Master’s Degree in
Public Administration or will have an equivalent combination of education and
experience, and should have an excellent working knowledge of Microsoft
Operating Systems, Microsoft Excel, and other software programs and computer
networking systems.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 3-7) (Ord. passed 11-18-1998; Res. 34, passed 11-29-2006;
Ord. E-14-76, passed 6-25-2014; Ord. E-16-73, passed 8-31-2016)
§ 30.08 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The compensation of the County Administrator shall be fixed by the
Board.
   (B)   An annual performance review shall be made by the Committee and the
Board Chairperson.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 3-8) (Ord. passed 11-18-1998; Res. 34, passed 11-29-2006;
Ord. E-14-76, passed 6-25-2014; Ord. E-16-73, passed 8-31-2016)
§ 30.09 AUTHORITY.
   The County Administrator shall act as the liaison to all departments and
functions under the jurisdiction of the Board, and to all departments exempt
from the direct authority of the County Board.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 3-9) (Ord. passed 11-18-1998; Res. 34, passed 11-29-2006;
Ord. E-14-76, passed 6-25-2014; Ord. E-16-73, passed 8-31-2016)
§ 30.10 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Within the limits of the authority prescribed in §
30.09, unless otherwise stated below, the County Administrator shall have the
following powers and duties.
   (A)   Budget.   The County Administrator shall establish the schedule and
procedures to be followed by all county departments, offices, and agencies in
connection with the preparation, review, adoption, implementation, and
amendment of the annual budget. The County Administrator shall supervise and
administer all phases of the budgetary process. The County Administrator shall
review departmental and agency budget requests.
   (B)   Personnel. The County Administrator and County Board Chairperson shall
jointly select, employ, supervise, suspend, discharge, or remove all personnel,
positions, or employment under the jurisdiction of the Board (including the
Zoning Administrator and staff, County Board office, Animal Control Director
and staff, Building and Grounds Supervisor and staff), except persons appointed
by the Board as required by the laws of the state. The County Administrator
shall, with input of all department heads and, subject to approval of all
elected officials regarding their employees, maintain a plan for classifying,
compensating, and evaluating all positions in county service and recommend its
approval by the appropriate County Board committee. The County Administrator
shall be responsible for all other aspects of personnel management of County
Board employees, labor relations training, and development.
   (C)   Contracts and agreements. The County Administrator will work with the
County Auditor and shall ensure that all terms and conditions of leases,
contracts, and other agreements are performed and shall notify the Board of any
violations thereof.
   (D)   Property. The County Administrator will work with the County Auditor,
along with the Building and Grounds Superintendent, shall be responsible for
the care and custody of all county property pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/5-1015,
except the Courthouse and Jail, which shall be in the care and custody of the
Sheriff pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-6017.
   (E)   Communications and information systems. The County Administrator shall
evaluate systems of communication and information processing including, but not
limited to, data processing, telephone, micrographics and reproduction, word
processing, and mail services to develop uniformity between all county
officials.
   (F)   Support of the Board. The County Administrator shall distribute the
agenda and the minutes of all meetings of the full Board. The County
Administrator shall review, and may comment on, any documents or reports which
are submitted to the full Board. The County Administrator shall attend all
meetings of the full Board and committee meetings as necessary. He or she may
participate in the discussion of any matter before the full Board. The County
Administrator shall provide the full Board, or individual members thereof, upon
request, with data or information concerning the county and provide advice and
recommendations on county government operations to the full Board.
   (G)   Administration. The County Administrator shall administer and carry
out the directives and policies of the Board, and enforce all orders,
resolutions, ordinances, and regulations of the Board to assure that they are
faithfully executed. The County Administrator shall report to the Board on
action taken pursuant to any directive or policy within the time set by the
Board. The County Administrator shall advise the Board on matters of policy and
may make recommendations to the Board on any matter before the Board.
   (H)   Procedures. The County Administrator shall recommend improved or
standardized forms and procedures. The County Administrator shall provide other
central administrative services as may be directed by the Board.
   (I)   Intergovernmental relations. The County Administrator, instead of or
along with the Chairperson, shall represent the Board in its relations with
other governments, as directed by the Board or Chairperson. The County
Administrator may comment upon or make recommendations to the Board concerning
proposed or accomplished actions of other governments, including legislation
and regulations of the state and federal governments.
   (J)   Records. The County Administrator shall maintain records appropriate
to or required by the powers and duties of the position.
   (K)   Reports. The County Administrator shall, from time to time, be
required to prepare reports on the state of the county and its government
operations and work accomplished, and make any recommendations as to actions or
programs the County Administrator deems necessary for the efficient operation
of the county and the welfare of its residents. The County Administrator shall
review the yearly audits of all fee funds and report to the County Board.
   (L)   Staff. With the agreement of the full County Board, the County
Administrator may employ staff to assist in the performance of these powers and
duties. Authorization of the Board is also required for funding.
   (M)   Other. The County Administrator shall perform such other duties as may
be required by the Board.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 3-10) (Ord. passed 11-18-1998; Res. 34, passed 11-29-2006;
Ord. E-14-76, passed 6-25-2014; Ord. E-16-73, passed 8-31-2016)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
Purchasing Policy
   
31.01   Purchase of goods and services
   
31.02   Competitive bidding
   
31.03   Inter-agency joint purchasing
   
31.04   Purchase of professional services under qualifications-based selection
   
31.05   Purchases exempt from competitive bidding and qualifications-based
selection
   
31.06   Small purchase procurement
Employee Personnel Policies Handbook
   
31.20   Adopted by reference
Collective Bargaining Agreements
   
31.35   Adopted by reference
PURCHASING POLICY
§ 31.01 PURCHASE OF GOODS AND SERVICES.
   No purchase of goods or service shall be made unless sufficient funds have
been appropriated by the County Board.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 2-1)
§ 31.02 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   Condition for use. All purchases for goods and services, in an amount
of $30,000 or an amount set by state statute, except as otherwise provided
herein, must utilize competitive bidding as required by 55 ILCS 5/5-1022.
   (B)   Invitation for bids. An invitation for bids shall be issued and shall
include specifications, bid evaluation requirements, and all applicable
contractual terms and conditions in a form as reviewed and approved by the
State’s Attorney’s Office and the County Auditor. Bid specifications shall be
recommended to the parent committee by the requesting department head and shall
describe clearly the goods and services to be contracted, but shall not be
drawn so narrowly as to preclude or diminish competition. A copy of invitations
shall be sent to the Auditor.
   (C)   Public notice. Public notice of the invitation for bids shall be made.
Such notice shall include publication in a newspaper of general circulation
within the county not less than ten calendar days prior to the date set forth
therein for the opening of bids.
   (D)   Bid opening. Sealed bids must be written and shall be opened publicly
in the presence of at least three of the following county officials: requesting
department head; assistant department head; County Administrator; Assistant
State’s Attorney; Auditor; and chairperson or member of parent committee, when
applicable. Sealed bids shall be opened and read at the time and place
designated in the invitation for bids. At a minimum, the amount of each bid,
and the extent to which each bid conforms to the evaluation criteria, together
with the name of each bidder shall be recorded in the form of a bid summary.
The summary and each bid shall be open to the public inspection.
   (E)   Late bids. No bids received after the specified time in the bid
information will be considered. It is the bidder’s responsibility to see that
the bid is delivered at the time and place specified.
   (F)   Bid evaluation. Bids shall be evaluated based on the requirements set
forth in the invitation for bids, which may include criteria to determine bid
acceptability such as prior related work experience, workmanship, suitability
of the item bid for the purpose intended, discounts, transportation costs, and
the total or life cycle costs. No criteria may be used in bid evaluation that
are set forth in the invitation for bids.
   (G)   Correction or withdrawal of bids. Correction or withdrawal of
inadvertently erroneous bids before or after bid opening may be permitted where
appropriate. Mistakes discovered before bid opening may be modified or
withdrawn by written or electronically transmitted notice received in the
office designated in the invitation for bids prior to the time set for bid
opening. After bid opening, corrections in bids shall be permitted only to the
extent that the bidder can show by clear and convincing evidence that a mistake
was made, the nature of the mistake, and the bid price actually intended. After
bid opening, no changes in bid prices or other provisions of bids prejudicial
to the interest of the county or fair competition shall be permitted. In lieu
of bid correction, a low bidder alleging a material mistake of fact may be
permitted to withdraw its bid if:
      (1)   The mistake is clearly evident on the face of the bid document but
the intended correct bid is not similarly evident; or
      (2)   The bidder submits evidence which clearly demonstrates that a
mistake was made.
   (H)   Bid award. The bid evaluation summary will be submitted to the
requesting department’s parent committee, who will review the analysis and
forward its recommendation for award to the full County Board for
consideration. The County Board and/or the Internal Control Officer who
initiated the bidding process reserves the right to accept or reject any and
all bids, or waive any informalities in bidding. After receipt of bids and
completion of the review process, the county and/or the Internal Control
Officer who initiated the bidding process may award a contract to the lowest
responsive and responsible bidder that in its judgment will provide a
combination of the best services and the lowest cost for the privileges and
rights to be granted pursuant to the terms of the contract to be entered into
between the county and/or the Internal Control Officer who initiated the
bidding process and the successful bidder.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 2-2)
§ 31.03 INTER-AGENCY JOINT PURCHASING.
   Subject to applicable state statutes, the county may either participate in,
sponsor, conduct, or administer a cooperative purchasing agreement for the
purchase of goods, services, or construction with one or more public entities
in accordance with an agreement entered into between or among the parties. Such
cooperative purchasing may include joint or multi-party contracts between
public units and open-ended state purchasing contracts, which are made
available to other public units.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 2-3)
§ 31.04 PURCHASE OF PROFESSIONAL SERVICES UNDER QUALIFICATIONS-BASED SELECTION.
   (A)   Conditions for use. Whenever professional services are required and
the county does not have an existing satisfactory relationship for services of
the requisite type, or except in the case of an emergency, purchases of
professional services of $25,000 or more shall be made in accordance with
qualifications-based selection requirements as found the state’s Local
Government Professional Services Selection Act, being 50 ILCS 510/0.01 et seq.
Types of professional services subject to these requirements include:
engineers; architects; and land surveyors.
   (B)   Invitation to submit qualifications. A statement of interest and a
request for qualifications shall be issued and shall include a description of
the scope of services to be rendered as approved by the requesting department
head, evaluation requirements, and all applicable contractual terms and
conditions in a form as reviewed and approved by the State’s Attorney’s Office
and the County Auditor.
   (C)   Notice. Whenever professional services are required and the county
does not have an existing satisfactory relationship for services of the
requisite type, an advertisement shall be placed in a secular daily newspaper
of general circulation in the county. The advertisement shall request a
statement of interest in the specific project and statements of qualifications
from any firms that have not yet filed statements of qualifications with the
county government. The advertisement shall state a specific day, hour, and
place the statements are due. A copy of the notice shall be sent to the
Auditor.
   (D)   RFQ review. Statements of qualifications must be in writing and shall
be reviewed by at least three of the following county officials: requesting
department head; assistant department head; County Administrator; Auditor;
Assistant State’s Attorney; and chairperson or member parent committee, when
applicable. At a minimum, the submitter’s qualifications and the extent to
which each statement of qualifications conforms to the evaluation criteria,
together with the name of each submitter, shall be recorded in summary form.
The summary and each statement of qualifications shall be open to public
inspection.
   (E)   Evaluation of qualifications. Evaluations shall be based on the
requirements set forth in the RFQ, which may include criteria to determine
acceptability, such as their perceived competence and expertise relative to the
project, the cost of their services, their ability to complete work within a
required time frame, their past record in performing similar work, and their
ability to work with county staff and elected officials.
   (F)   Consultant selection. The evaluation summary will be submitted to the
requesting department’s parent committee, who will review the analysis and
select one or more submitters for interview. Following the interview(s) the
parent committee shall forward its recommendation of selection to the full
County Board for consideration. The County Board and/or the Internal Control
Officer who initiated the bidding process may then direct contract negotiations
take place with its first choice consultant. Should these negotiations fail.
The Board, if applicable, may then direct contract negotiations take place with
its next choice consultant.
   (G)   Contract award. Once contract negotiations have been successful, the
parent committee shall submit for ratification of the contract to the County
Board, and/or the Internal Control Officer who initiated the bidding process
may ratify the contract.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 2-4)
§ 31.05 PURCHASES EXEMPT FROM COMPETITIVE BIDDING AND QUALIFICATIONS-BASED
SELECTION.
   The procedures below shall be adhered to for the following purchases.
   (A)   Purchases of the following types may be made only upon approval by the
County Board, or the applicable Internal Control Officer, and direction to the
Auditor to issue a purchase order, provided that sufficient monies have been
appropriated by the County Board:
      (1)   Purchases of more than $30,000 involving data processing equipment,
software or services, and telecommunications and inter-connect equipment,
software, or services; and
      (2)   Purchases of professional services of more than $30,000 and not
covered by qualifications- based selection requirements.
   (B)   Purchases of the following types of more than $30,000 may be made only
upon County Board approval and direction to the Auditor to issue a purchase
order, provided that sufficient monies have been appropriated by the County
Board. Internal Control Officers may approve these types of purchases if
sufficient monies have been appropriated:
      (1)   Contracts with the federal government;
      (2)   Purchases of used equipment;
      (3)   Purchases at auction; and
      (4)   Transactions which by their nature are not suitable to competitive
bids.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 2-5)
§ 31.06 SMALL PURCHASE PROCUREMENT.
   The following procedures shall be adhered to for all purchases or contracts
less than $30,000.
   (A)   All purchases or contracts in an amount of $20,000 or more, but less
than $30,000, shall require the department head to put forth reasonable effort
to obtain three written quotations. The Auditor may issue a purchase order upon
request of the department head, provided that sufficient monies have been
appropriated by the Board. Internal Control Officers will put forth reasonable
effort to obtain three informal written quotations and provide them directly to
the Auditor to have a purchase order issued, provided that sufficient monies
have been appropriated by the County Board.
   (B)   All purchases or contracts in an amount of $10,000 or more, but less
than $20,000, shall require the department head to put forth reasonable effort
to obtain two informal quotations documented by the department head. The
Auditor may issue a purchase order upon request of the department head,
provided that sufficient monies have been appropriated by the County Board.
Internal Control Officers shall put forth reasonable effort to obtain two
informal quotations and submit documentation directly to the Auditor to have a
purchase order issued.
   (C)   All purchases or contracts in the amount of $10,000 or less shall be
made in a way that is in the best interest of the county on the authorization
of the department head or designee provided that sufficient monies have been
appropriated and a purchase order has been issued by the Auditor, or in the
case of the Highway Department, by the County Engineer or designee.
   (D)   Exceptions to comparative quotations are granted when at least one of
the following conditions exist:
      (1)   There is only one source for the required supply, service, or
construction item;
      (2)   The required item is a dealer item, which may be purchased from
multiple dealers, but at a fixed cost from dealer to dealer;
      (3)   It is a purchase of used equipment; or
      (4)   It is an emergency purchase.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 2-6) (Res. E-23-112, passed 7-26-2023)
EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL POLICIES HANDBOOK
§ 31.20 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Employees Personnel Policies Handbook, adopted March 26, 2014, as
amended, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated as fully as if set out
at length in this code of ordinances.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
§ 31.35 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All collective bargaining agreements, as amended, are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this code of
ordinances.
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
   
32.001   Establishment
   
32.002   Coordinator
   
32.003   Rules
Persons with Developmental Disabilities Board
   
32.015   Establishment
   
32.016   Appointment of members
   
32.017   Meetings, representatives, and rules
Ethics Commission
   
32.030   Adoption of state Gift Ban Act
   
32.031   Ethics Officer
   
32.032   Local Ethics Commission; complaints
   
32.033   Future amendments to State Gift Ban Act
   
32.034   Severability
Emergency Telephone System Board
   
32.045   Definition
   
32.046   Membership
   
32.047   Powers and duties
   
32.048   Compensation
   
32.049   Funding
   
32.050   Effective date
Board of Health
   
32.065   Rules established
   
32.066   Authority
   
32.067   Members
   
32.068   Officers
   
32.069   Meetings
   
32.070   Voting
   
32.071   Conflict of interest
   
32.072   Duties
   
32.073   Fiscal year
   
32.074   Budgets and disbursements
   
32.075   Accounts
   
32.076   Annual report
   
32.077   Committees
   
32.078   Reimbursement for expenses
   
32.079   Property
   
32.080   Amendments
Sheriff’s Merit Commission
   
32.095   Membership
   
32.096   Duties
   
32.097   Compensation
   
32.098   Promulgation of rules
   
32.099   Rules established
   
32.100   Creation of Commission
   
32.101   Equal opportunity employer
   
32.102   Administrative matters
   
32.103   Classification of ranks
   
32.104   Appointment to Department
   
32.105   Promotion
   
32.106   Discipline
   
32.107   Leave of absence
Veterans Assistance Commission
   
32.120   Rules established
   
32.121   Title
   
32.122   State laws
   
32.123   Delegates
   
32.124   Superintendent
   
32.125   Annual meeting
   
32.126   Chairperson
   
32.127   Monthly meeting
   
32.128   Administration
   
32.129   Superintendent responsibilities
   
32.130   Special meeting
   
32.131   Review of rules
Heritage Lake Special Service Area Commission
   
32.150   Creation of Commission
   
32.151   Membership; appointment
   
32.152   Terms
   
32.153   Meetings of Commission
   
32.154   Chairperson; duties and powers
   
32.155   Record to be kept
   
32.156   Rules and regulations
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
§ 32.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the County Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
pursuant to 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq., the State Emergency Management Agency Act
(formerly Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 127, § 1101 et seq., the State Emergency
Services and Disaster Agency Act of 1975).
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 1-1)
§ 32.002 COORDINATOR.
   As stated in 20 ILCS 3305/10(I), the County Emergency Services and Disaster
Agency Coordinator shall be appointed by the County Board Chairperson with the
consent of the County Board, and the Coordinator shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration, training, and operation of
the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, subject to the direction and
control of the County Board Chairperson.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 1-2)
§ 32.003 RULES.
   The County Emergency Services and Disaster Agency is governed by 20 ILCS
3305/1 et seq. and any rules and regulations promulgated by the Governor under
authority of that statute.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 1-3)
PERSONS WITH DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES BOARD
§ 32.015 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the County Persons with Developmental Disabilities
Board pursuant to 55 ILCS 105/0.01 et seq., the County Care for Persons with
Developmental Disabilities Act (formerly Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 911/2, par. 201 et
seq.).
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 5-1)
§ 32.016 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   As stated in 55 ILCS 105/3, the County Persons with Developmental
Disabilities Board shall be appointed by the County Board Chairperson with the
consent of the County Board.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 5-2)
§ 32.017 MEETINGS, REPRESENTATIVES, AND RULES.
   Pursuant to 55 ILCS 105/4, the Persons with Developmental Disabilities Board
shall meet in July, annually, and elect one of its number as president and one
as secretary, and shall elect such other officers as it deems necessary. It
shall adopt such rules for the administration of this Act as may be proper and
expedient. (As of October 29, 2002, rules of procedure for conducting the
Persons with Developmental Disabilities Board meetings had not been formally
adopted.)
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 5-3)
ETHICS COMMISSION
§ 32.030 ADOPTION OF STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   (A)   The State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq.) is hereby adopted as
required by § 83 of the Act (5 ILCS 430/70-5).
   (B)   The solicitation or the acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the Act is prohibited by any elected or appointed official or
any employee of the county.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 6-1)
§ 32.031 ETHICS OFFICER.
   To the extent authorized by law and to the extent required by § 35 of the
Act (5 ILCS 430/70-20), the Board Chairperson is authorized to appoint an
Ethics Officer of the county. The Ethics Officer’s duties shall be as provided
in § 35.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 6-2)
§ 32.032 LOCAL ETHICS COMMISSION; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   To the extent authorized by law and to the extent required by the Act,
the County Board Chairperson shall appoint five persons to the Local Ethics
Commission with the advice and consent of the County Board.
   (B)   The Local Ethics Commission shall have the power and duties set forth
in 5 ILCS 430.
   (C)   To the extent that any of its provisions may be applicable, § 45 of
the Act shall be applicable to the Local Ethics Commission.
   (D)   The complaint procedure and the enforcement and penalty provisions of
the Act and this subchapter shall be as are provided in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 et seq.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 6-3)
§ 32.033 FUTURE AMENDMENTS TO STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   (A)   Any amendment to the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq.)
that becomes effective after the passage of this subchapter shall be
incorporated into this subchapter by reference and shall be applicable to the
solicitation and acceptance of gifts.
   (B)   However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption
by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this subchapter by reference
without formal action by the County Board.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 6-4)
§ 32.034 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If the state’s Supreme Court declares the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS
430/10-10 et seq.) unconstitutional in its entirety, then this subchapter shall
be repealed as of the date that the Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and
not subject to any further appeals or rehearings. The subchapter shall be
deemed repealed without further action by the County Board if the Act is found
unconstitutional by the state’s Supreme Court.
   (B)   If the state’s Supreme Court declares part of the State Gift Ban Act
(5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq.) unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality
of the remainder of the Act or does not address the remainder of the Act, then
the remainder of the Act as adopted by this subchapter shall remain in full
force and effect; however, that part of this subchapter relating to the part of
the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without further action
by the County Board.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 6-5)
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD
§ 32.045 DEFINITION.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Other
terms in this subchapter shall have the meanings as provided in the Emergency
Telephone System Act, 50 ILCS 750, as amended.
   9-1-1 BOARD. Emergency Telephone System Board authorized by the Emergency
Telephone System Act, 50 ILCS 750, as amended.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 7-1) (Res. E-19-48, passed 2-27-2019)
§ 32.046 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Appointment. The County Board Chairperson shall appoint members of the
9-1-1 Board with the advice and consent of the County Board. The County Board
Chairperson shall receive from the Sheriff the name of a candidate for
appointment, as the Sheriffs designee under division (B)(1), if the Sheriff
chooses a designee to serve in the Sheriffs place as a member. The County Board
Chairperson shall receive names of candidates from the governing authority of
any municipality for the appointment of members representing a municipality as
provided under divisions (B)(9) through (B)(12).
   (B)   Composition of members.
      (1)   Sheriff of Tazewell County or Sheriff’s designee;
      (2)   County Board member or designee;
      (3)   One person representing public safety dispatch;
      (4)   One person representing fire services;
      (5)   One person representing emergency medical services;
      (6)   One person representing emergency management;
      (7)   Two persons who represent the public at large;
      (8)   One person representing police services;
      (9)   One person representing the City of Washington, Illinois;
      (10)   One person representing the City of East Peoria, Illinois;
      (11)   One person representing the City of Pekin, Illinois; and
      (12)   One person representing the Village of Morton, Illinois.
   (C)   Qualifications of members.
      (1)   All members must be appointed on the basis of their ability or
experience.
      (2)   A designee of the Sheriff shall serve in the place of the Sheriff
only upon notification by official correspondence from the Sheriff to the
Secretary of the 9-1-1 Board.
      (3)   The fire representative must be, at the time of appointment by the
County Board and at all times during term as a member, a member working in
service to and in good standing of a fire service provider serving part of the
county.
      (4)   The emergency medical services representative must be, at the time
of appointment by the County Board and at all times during term as a member, a
member working in service to and in good standing of an EMS emergency service
provider serving part of the county.
      (5)   The emergency management representative must be, at the time of
appointment by the County Board and at all times during term as a member, a
member working in service to and in good standing of an emergency management
organization operating within the county.
      (6)   The public safety dispatch representative must be, at the time of
appointment by the County Board and at all times during term as a member, a
member working in service to and in good standing of an organization operating
a public safety dispatch organization and PSAP in the county.
      (7)   The police representative must be, at the time of appointment by
the County Board and at all times during term as a member, a member working in
service to and in good standing of a police agency serving part of the county.
The police representative must be from an agency and political subdivision not
otherwise granted a membership position on the 9-1-1 Board under division (B).
      (8)   At least one public representative must be a resident of the
Tazewell County 9-1-1 service area.
      (9)   Representatives of East Peoria, Pekin, Morton, and Washington must
be nominated by official action of the respective corporate governing body. In
the event that the Chairman of the County Board refuses a nominee or the County
Board refuses to approve a nominee, the Chairman of the County Board shall
cause immediate notification of such refusal to the affected municipality and
shall request the municipality submit a new nominee.
      (10)   If, at any point during a term as a member, any member appointed
under division (C)(3), (4), (5), (5) or (7) discontinues service in the
capacity named in the item which was the basis for the member’s appointment,
the member shall be deemed unqualified and his or her term deemed vacant.
   (D)   Number of members. There shall be a maximum of 13 members appointed to
the 9-1-1 Board.
   (E)   Term of office for members.
      (1)   The police representative shall serve until November 30, 2019, and
thereafter subsequent four-year terms commencing on December 1 and ending on
November 30.
      (2)   The County Board representative shall serve until November 30,
2020, and thereafter subsequent four-year terms commencing on December 1 and
ending on November 30.
      (3)   The public safety dispatch representative shall serve until
November 30, 2021, and thereafter subsequent four-year terms commencing on
December 1 and ending on November 30.
      (4)   The fire representative shall serve until November 30, 2022, and
thereafter subsequent four-year terms commencing on December 1 and ending on
November 30.
      (5)   The EMS representative shall serve until November 30, 2022, and
thereafter subsequent four-year terms commencing on December 1 and ending on
November 30.
      (6)   The first public representative shall serve until November 30,
2021, and thereafter subsequent four-year terms commencing on December 1 and
ending on November 30.
      (7)   The second public representative shall serve until November 30,
2020, and thereafter subsequent four-year terms commencing on December 1 and
ending on November 30.
      (8)   The East Peoria representative shall serve until November 30, 2022,
and thereafter subsequent four-year terms commencing on December 1 and ending
on November 30.
      (9)   The Pekin representative shall serve until November 30, 2019, and
thereafter subsequent four-year terms commencing on December 1 and ending on
November 30.
      (10)   The Washington representative shall serve until November 30, 2021,
and thereafter subsequent four-year terms commencing on December 1 and ending
on November 30.
      (11)   The Morton representative shall serve until November 30, 2019, and
thereafter subsequent four-year terms commencing on December 1 and ending on
November 30.
      (12)   The emergency management representative shall serve until November
30, 2020, and thereafter subsequent four-year terms commencing on December 1
and ending on November 30.
   (F)   Appointment and replacement of members.
      (1)   Each County Board resolution naming an ETSB member must state the
representative position outlined in division (B) to which the member is being
appointed.
      (2)   The County Board may, by a vote of the majority of the members
present at an official meeting of the County Board, remove a 9-1-1 Board member
for misconduct, official misconduct, or neglect of office.
      (3)   If a member serving in a representative position for a municipality
is removed, the County Board Chairperson shall immediately notify the
appropriate governing body of the municipality of a vacancy and thereafter
request from that municipality the name of a new candidate to fill the
remainder of the removed member's term.
      (4)   If the Sheriff is removed, the Sheriff may not serve on the 9-1-
1 Board until the expiration of the four-year term the Sheriff was serving at
the time the Sheriff was removed. If a Sheriff’s designee is removed, the
Sheriff may not designate the person removed to again serve on the 9-1-1 Board
until the expiration of the four year term to which the Sheriff was serving at
the time the Sheriff’s designee was removed.
      (5)   Whenever a vacancy occurs on the 9-1-1 Board, the County Board
Chairperson shall, within 90 days of the vacancy, submit a name to the County
Board for consideration and appointment to fill the vacancy.
      (6)   A term that becomes vacant or remains vacant after its initiation
shall be filled such that the new appointment shall be for the remainder of the
term for that constituency as of the date of ratification by the County Board.
      (7)   Concurrent with the adoption of this section, a County Board
resolution shall name each existing 9-1-1 Board member to one of the member
positions outlined in division (B) that best matches the member's position
prior to the adoption of this section.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 7-2) (Res. E-19-48, passed 2-27-2019; Res. E-19-71, passed
4-24-2019; Res. E-22-18, passed 2-23-2022)
§ 32.047 POWERS AND DUTIES.
    The members of the 9-1-1 Board shall exercise those powers and perform
those duties as provided in the Emergency Telephone System Act, 50 ILCS 750, as
amended.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 7-3) (Res. E-19-48, passed 2-27-2019)
§ 32.048 COMPENSATION.
    The members of the 9-1-1 Board shall serve without compensation but shall
be compensated for their actual and necessary expenses consistent with
applicable federal and state laws and applicable county ordinances and
personnel policies.
(50 ILCS 750/15.4) (Prior Code, 2 TCC 7-4) (Res. E-19-48, passed 2-27-2019)
§ 32.049 FUNDING.
    Funding shall be provided from the surcharge authorized by 50 ILCS 750/15.3
and any other authorized monies received by the Emergency Telephone System
Board.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 7-5) (Res. E-19-48, passed 2-27-2019)
§ 32.050 EFFECTIVE DATE.
    This subchapter was originally effective November 16, 1988, and the
modifications made herein shall take effect immediately upon ratification by
the County Board.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 7-6) (Res. E-19-48, passed 2-27-2019)
BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 32.065 RULES ESTABLISHED.
   The following are the rules of the County Board of Health promulgated by the
County Board of Health as authorized by law. These rules were drafted without
the direct involvement of the County Board and can be changed by the County
Board of Health without further County Board action, but are included in this
code for ease of reference.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.066 AUTHORITY.
   This Board of Health was appointed and operates under the provisions of
Division 5-25, County and Multi-County Health Department, of the County Code,
55 ILCS 5/5-25001 through 5/25025.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.067 MEMBERS.
   Appointments to the Board of Health are made by the County Board Chairperson
with consent of County Board members. The Board of Health may make
recommendations to the County Board Chairperson for the appointments.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.068 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The officers of the Board of Health shall be a president, vice
president, a secretary, and a treasurer, and shall be elected annually by the
Board of Health. The Treasurer shall be elected annually either from members of
the Board of Health or otherwise (i.e., County Treasurer).
   (B)   The duties of the officers of the Board of Health shall be those that
are customary for such officers. (See Robert’s Rules of Order, newly revised),
and any other duties as shall be set forth in this subchapter.
   (C)   Officers shall be elected for a one-year term for the ensuing year at
a Board of Health meeting that shall be held prior to the end of the fiscal
year (November 30).
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.069 MEETINGS.
   The Board of Health:
   (A)   Shall hold meetings monthly; and
   (B)   May hold special meetings upon written request signed by two members
of the Board of Health and filed with the Secretary, or on request of the
Medical Health Officer or the Public Health Administrator.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.070 VOTING.
   All questions before the Board of Health shall be decided by a majority vote
of all members present, however, no meeting shall be accounted as official
unless a quorum of members are present. A quorum shall be a majority of the
members.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.071 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Board of Health members have an obligation to conduct business within
guidelines that prohibit actual or potential conflicts of interest. This policy
establishes only the framework within which Board of Health for Tazewell County
Health Department (TCHD) wishes the business to operate. The purpose of these
guidelines is to provide general direction so that Board of Health members can
seek further clarification on issues related to the subject of acceptable
standards of operation. Contact the Board of Health President for more
information or questions about conflict of interest.
   (B)   An actual or potential conflict of interest occurs when the Board of
Health member is in a position to influence a decision that may result in a
personal gain for that member or for a relative as a result of TCHD’s business
dealings. For the purposes of this policy, a relative is any person who is
related by blood or marriage, or whose relationship with the Board of Health is
similar to that of persons who are related by blood or marriage.
   (C)   No “presumption of guilt” is created by the mere existence of a
relationship with outside firms. However, if a Board of Health member has any
influence on transactions involving purchases, contracts, or leases, it is
imperative that he or she disclose to an officer of the Board of Health or to
the full Board as soon as possible the existence of any actual or potential
conflict of interest so that safeguards can be established to protect all
parties.
   (D)   Personal gain may result not only in cases where a Board of Health
member or relative has a significant ownership in a firm with which TCHD does
business, but also when an employee or relative receives any kickback, bribe,
substantial gift, or special consideration as a result of any transaction or
business dealing(s) involving TCHD.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.072 DUTIES.
   The Board of Health:
   (A)   Shall develop and record in the bylaws, or in an amendment to the
existing bylaws, policies establishing the scope of the Health Department
programs;
   (B)   May request the County Board to pass an ordinance permitting the
charging and collection of such fees as may be necessary to finance selected
services;
   (C)   Shall provide for, or request, adequate financing for the Health
Department programs, and shall adopt fiscal policies which shall be kept in
writing;
   (D)   May enter into contracts with official or non-official agencies, or
individuals, for the purchase, sale, or exchange of health services;
   (E)   Shall, whether offering one or more services, employ a staff
adequately qualified to carry out the Department program and shall adopt
personnel policies which shall be kept in writing and made available to
employees;
   (F)   Shall, if the Health Department provides services sufficiently
extensive, appoint a medical health officer as executive officer of the
Department, or shall appoint a public health administrator as the executive
officer for the Department; provided, that the Board of Health shall make
available medical supervision that is considered adequate by the Director of
the state’s Department of Public Health. The executive officer shall possess
qualifications prescribed by the state’s Department of Public Health in the
Local Health Department Certification Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 600);
   (G)   Shall, according to the requirements of the County Code and within the
professional and technical competence of its staff and the number of staff
employed, and, with the staff of the Health Department acting as its agent,
enforce all state laws pertaining to the preservation of health, and all county
and municipal ordinances except as otherwise provided in the County Code; also,
shall enforce all rules and regulations promulgated by the state’s Department
of Public Health, by the County Board, or by the governing bodies of cities and
villages in the county, except as otherwise provided in the County Code; and
   (H)   Shall, according to the requirements of the County Code, recommend,
when deemed necessary, to the County Board the enactment of such ordinances and
rules and regulations as may be necessary or desirable for the protection of
health and control of disease in the jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.073 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the Board of Health shall be December 1 through November
30.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.074 BUDGETS AND DISBURSEMENTS.
   The Board of Health:
   (A)   Shall, at the appropriate time prior to the end of the fiscal year,
meet and establish, and submit the budget to the County Board, preferably after
preliminary conference with the Public Health and Finance Committees of the
County Board;
   (B)   Shall review at each meeting the fiscal status of the Health
Department and shall act on the payroll and all other bills paid since the last
meeting. The vote on these bills, if not unanimous, shall be by roll call and
recorded as such; and
   (C)   Shall review salary ranges and increments for staff members as
outlined in the personnel policies.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.075 ACCOUNTS.
   The Board of Health:
   (A)   Shall keep a record in the Health Department headquarters of all
receipts and disbursements. This record shall be compared at least annually
with the records of the County Treasurer; and
   (B)   Shall cause an annual audit to be made of the Health Department
accounts. The County Treasurer’s annual audit of all accounts, which includes
the Health Department, may be accepted as the Board of Health’s official audit,
or an additional audit by a competent auditor may be obtained.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.076 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Board of Health shall publish, within 90 days after the end of the
fiscal year, an annual report explaining the Health Department activities and
expenditures for the past year. This report shall be in pamphlet form and shall
be for free distribution, which shall include distribution to members of the
Board.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.077 COMMITTEES.
   The President of the Board of Health:
   (A)   Shall, from Board of Health members, appoint such committees as seem
appropriate for the conduct of Board of Health business; and
   (B)   May appoint advisory committees from professional or community groups.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.078 REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES.
   The Board of Health:
   (A)   Shall serve without compensation; and
   (B)   May be reimbursed for actual, necessary expense incurred in the
performance of its duties, such as attendance at meeting of the Board of
Health, or at meetings of the state’s Association of Boards of Health and the
state’s Public Health Association.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.079 PROPERTY.
   The Board of Health:
   (A)   Shall request the executive officer of the Health Department, or the
designated administrator, to keep an accurate inventory of all property of the
Health Department; and
   (B)   Shall cause property of the Health Department to be adequately
protected by insurance.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
§ 32.080 AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Health may amend these bylaws by a vote of two-thirds of its
members, provided that a written notice of the proposed changes be sent to each
member at least two weeks before the meeting at which the bylaws are to be
amended.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 2-1)
SHERIFF’S MERIT COMMISSION
§ 32.095 MEMBERSHIP.
   The County Sheriff’s Merit Commission shall consist of five members
appointed by the Sheriff and approved by the County Board. Of the initial
appointments, one shall serve for a term of two years, one for a term of four
years, and one for a term of six years. Of the two additional members, one
shall be initially appointed for a term of three years and the other for a term
of five years. All successive members shall be appointed for six years. No more
than three members may be affiliated with the same political party.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 3-1)
§ 32.096 DUTIES.
   The Merit Commission shall promulgate rules, regulations, and procedures for
the operation of the merit system and administer the merit system. These rules,
regulations, and procedures shall provide for the appointment, promotion,
disciplining, and discharging of deputies and correctional officers in the
office of Sheriff pursuant to recognized merit principles of public employment.
Such deputies and correctional officers shall be compensated according to a
standard pay plan approved by the County Board.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 3-2)
§ 32.097 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Merit Commission shall be compensated on a per diem basis
at the same rate as the members of the County Board and may be reimbursed for
reasonable and necessary expenses.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 3-3)
§ 32.098 PROMULGATION OF RULES.
   The Sheriff’s Merit Commission shall provide current copies of all
promulgated rules and any amendments to the County Clerk for inclusion in the
County Code.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 3-4)
§ 32.099 RULES ESTABLISHED.
   The following are the rules of the Sheriff’s Merit Commission promulgated by
the Sheriff’s Merit Commission as authorized by law. These rules were drafted
without the direct involvement of the County Board and can be changed by the
Sheriff’s Merit Commission without further County Board action, but are
included in this code for ease of reference.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 3-5)
§ 32.100 CREATION OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Merit Commission was created in 1969, pursuant to state law, by
resolution of the County Board.
   (B)   Pursuant to its responsibility for the administration and operation of
a merit system for all Deputy Sheriffs and correctional officers of the County
Sheriff’s Office, the Merit Commission adopts the following rules, regulations,
and procedures.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 3-5)
§ 32.101 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.
   The Sheriff’s Office Merit Commission of the county represents that it
conforms to the following.
   (A)   It will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for
employment because of race, creed, color, political affiliation or beliefs,
sex, or national origin. It will take whatever action is necessary to ensure
that applicants are employed and that employees are treated during employment
without regard to their race, creed, color, national origin, sex, political
affiliation, or beliefs. Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the
following: recruitment or recruitment advertising; demotion; layoff or
termination; rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and selection for
training. It agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and
applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions of this
nondiscrimination clause.
   (B)   It will, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed
by or on behalf of the applicant or the employing agencies, state that all
qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard
to race, creed, color, national origin, sex, political affiliation, or beliefs.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 3-5)
§ 32.102 ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS.
   The Commission shall maintain an office in Pekin, Illinois, where its staff
assistants and clerks shall function and its files and records shall be
maintained, said office space to be provided by the county.
   (A)   Regular meetings.
      (1)   A regular meeting of the Commission shall be held in Pekin,
Illinois in each of the following months: January, April, July, and October, on
the third Thursday of each said month at 1:00 p.m. Any changes or cancellation
of regular meetings must be given ten-day notice to the Commission and the
public. Commission meetings shall be conducted under Robert’s Rules of Order.
      (2)   Public notice of all regular meetings shall be given pursuant to
the applicable requirements of the Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 110/1 et
seq.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Special meetings may be called when needed by the Chairperson or
upon the call three members of the Commission. The Chairperson must notify each
of the Commission members specifying the time and place of such meetings at
least five days prior to the meeting.
      (2)   Public notice of special meetings shall be given pursuant to the
applicable requirements of the Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 110/1 et seq.
   (C)   Voting. On all matters, the concurrence of a majority of the
Commission members in attendance shall be necessary to render a decision, and
the action of such a majority shall be the action of the Commission.
   (D)   Quorum. At all meetings, three members of the Commission shall
normally constitute a quorum and shall conduct the business of the Commission.
However, when changes in the rules, regulations, and procedures of the
Commission are to be considered, all five must be notified and in attendance or
have an opportunity to let his or her views be known in writing.
   (E)   Minutes and records. The Commission shall:
      (1)   Maintain such personnel records and files as are necessary to
execute its responsibilities. These records and files shall be confidential;
      (2)   Keep and maintain the minutes of all meetings and report the
decision rendered to appropriate parties. Such minutes shall be maintained in
accordance with the applicable sections of the Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS
110/1 et seq.;
      (3)   Carefully compile and maintain a transcript of all disciplinary
proceedings; and
      (4)   Keep and maintain all other records and files necessary for the
proper administration and operation of the Commission’s business, including any
information required for compliance with the requests of the County Board for
reports of activity.
   (F)   Officers of the Commission.
      (1)   The officers of the Commission shall be:
         (a)   Chairperson;
         (b)   Vice Chairperson; and
         (c)   Confidential Secretary.
      (2)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings and shall perform all
duties required of him or her by these rules, regulations, and procedures.
      (3)   The Vice Chairperson shall preside at meetings in the absence or
disability of the Chairperson.
      (4)   The Secretary shall keep the minutes and records of the Commission.
This office shall be filled by the person of the County Sheriff’s Chief Clerk.
      (5)   All officers shall be elected by a simple majority vote of the
Merit Commission. The term of office of said officers shall be two years or
until the term of office as a member of the Commission shall expire, whichever
period is shorter. Elections shall be held at the first meeting of the fiscal
year.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 3-5)
§ 32.103 CLASSIFICATION OF RANKS.
   (A)   Ranks.
      (1)   For the purpose of the administration and operation of the merit
system of the County Sheriff’s Office, the ranks shall be:
         (a)   Law enforcement.
            1.   Chief Deputy;
            2.   Captain;
            3.   Sergeant; and
            4.   Deputy.
         (b)   Corrections.
            1.   Jail Superintendent;
            2.   Corrections Sergeant; and
            3.   Correctional officer.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Sheriff, from time to
time as he or she deems necessary, from changing the rank structure of the
Sheriff’s Office.
   (B)   Position and assignments. The ranks of Captain, Sergeant, Corrections
Sergeant, Deputy Sheriff, and corrections officer are considered positions
rather than assignments. Persons meeting the requirements of the qualifications
and appointment procedures stated elsewhere in these rules, regulations, and
procedures can attain tenure in these positions.
   (C)   Sheriff. The Sheriff, if not appointed or elected from the ranks of
the Sheriff’s Office personnel, upon leaving the Office of Sheriff for any
reason, except his or her removal for cause, may be appointed to any rank by
the successor Sheriff.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 3-5)
§ 32.104 APPOINTMENT TO DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Entry into merit system. The ranks of corrections officer and Deputy
Sheriff are the sole entry points into the Sheriff’s Office merit system.
   (B)   Appointment to the Department. All applicants for appointment as
Deputy and corrections officer to the Sheriff’s Office, in addition to meeting
the standards prescribed by the Sheriff’s Merit System Law as found in 55 ILCS
5/3-8001 et seq., must:
      (1)   (a)   Deputy Sheriff. Be no younger than 21 years of age at the
time the application is received by the Commission; and
         (b)   Corrections officer. Be no younger than 19 years of age at the
time the application is received by the Commission.
      (2)   Be a high school graduate, or have certificate of equivalency
comparable to the state’s GED;
      (3)   Be a resident of the state for one year from date of hire to
establish residency in the county, and shall maintain such residency as a
condition of request to partake in the testing procedures and receive
dispensation from the Commission until the date of his or her discharge from
the military;
      (4)   Possess a valid Illinois driver’s license prior to appointment and
be qualified to obtain a FOID;
      (5)   Meet such other mental, medical, physical, psychological, or other
standards as prescribed by the Commission (medical examination to be paid for
by the Commission);
      (6)   A Deputy Sheriff/correctional officer must be able to successfully
complete a written exam as required by the Commission;
      (7)   Be acceptable to the Commission following an investigation of
background, reputation, and character. Said examination to be conducted by the
Sheriff’s Office;
      (8)   Be acceptable to the Commission following an oral interview;
      (9)   Be adjudged as qualified by the commission and placed on a list of
qualified applicants. A separate list shall be established for corrections
officer and Deputy Sheriff;
      (10)   Be appointed from the qualified list by the Sheriff when a vacancy
or vacancies exist; and
      (11)   Serve successfully a one-year probationary period during which
time he or she is subjected to removal at the will of the Sheriff.
   (C)   Certification. Candidates who are found to be qualified by the
Commission shall be placed on a certification list. This list shall remain in
force until the next written examination is authorized and given by the
Commission, or a period of two years has lapsed from the certification date,
whichever is shorter.
   (D)   Probation. All persons appointed as certified employees shall serve an
initial 12-month probation period, at which time the Deputy Sheriff/
correctional officer will be granted tenure. An extension of the probationary
period of not more than six months may be granted upon application of the
probationary employee to the Sheriff and upon the Sheriff’s affirmative
recommendation to the Merit Commission prior to expiration of the original
probationary period.
   (E)   Appointment procedures. The responsibilities of the Merit Commission
include:
      (1)   Preparing and posting in the lobby of the first floor of the
Sheriff’s Office a list of all qualified candidates at the completion of the
entry screening process in accordance with the foregoing; and
      (2)   Withdraw from the qualified list the name of any applicant who
declines to accept an appointment.
   (F)   Interim appointments. When necessary, the Sheriff may make interim
appointments to any merited position. Such appointments shall be temporary in
nature and shall terminate upon the posting of a new list of qualified
candidates, or may be terminated earlier at the discretion of the Sheriff. All
personnel who receive temporary appointments must meet the immediately
applicable qualifications prescribed in division (B) above. Under no
circumstances shall this appointment last more than six months.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 3-5)
§ 32.105 PROMOTION.
   (A)   Certification.
      (1)   All merited employees seeking promotion must have served at least
one year in their current rank to be eligible to take a written examination for
the next higher rank.
      (2)   At the time of notification of holding of examination for
promotion, applicants must not be on leave of absence, except for military
service.
      (3)   After meeting the above requirement, but prior to promotion, the
Deputy/corrections officer must:
         (a)   File a formal application with the Commission;
         (b)   Take and pass any written or oral promotional examination
offered by the Commission;
         (c)   Submit Sheriff’s performance evaluations for the previous year,
if applicable;
         (d)   Be adjudged to be qualified and placed upon a list of qualified
applicants by the Commission; and
         (e)   Be selected from the qualified list and appointed to the
appropriate position and rank by the Sheriff when a vacancy or vacancies occur.
   (B)   Certification of tenure. After successfully completing the above
promotional procedure, applicants shall be certified as tenured at the
appropriate position and rank by the Commission.
   (C)   Lists of qualified. List of qualified promotional candidates shall be
prepared and prominently posted at the completion of each promotional screening
by the Commission. The list may group the qualified persons alphabetically.
Such lists shall remain in force for two years or until exhausted, whichever is
shorter.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 3-5)
§ 32.106 DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   Disciplinary measures. The Commission, after a hearing upon charges,
shall make a finding of guilty or not guilty.
      (1)   If a finding of guilty is made, it may order any of the following
disciplinary measures which, in the opinion of the Commission, the offense
merits:
         (a)   Suspension without salary for a period not to exceed a total of
180 days in any 12- month period;
         (b)   Reduction in rank;
         (c)   A combination of divisions (A)(1)(a) and (A)(1)(b) above; or
         (d)   Discharge and removal from the Sheriff’s Office.
      (2)   If the Commission makes a finding of not guilty, it shall require
the Sheriff to:
         (a)   Restore the accused to duty forthwith at the rank and position
from which he or she was suspended;
         (b)   Make provision to continue the accused seniority as if it had
never been interrupted; and
         (c)   See that the officer is properly reimbursed for any loss of
salary. The difference between any monies earned at other employment while
under suspension and salary shall provide the basis for such reimbursement.
   (B)   Disciplinary procedures.
      (1)   Complaints. In all cases when the Sheriff seeks to file a written
complaint for violations of the Sheriff’s regulations, policies, procedures, or
general orders with the Commission, it shall be submitted to the Secretary of
the Commission, and shall set forth a plain and concise statement of the facts
upon which the complaint.
      (2)   Notification of hearing. Upon receipt of a complaint from the
Sheriff, the Commission will send a letter to the accused subordinate enclosing
a copy of the complaint. The letter shall advise of the filing of the complaint
and set forth the time and place of hearing on the charges contained in the
complaint. Notice of such hearing shall be served on the accused not less than
14 days prior to hearing date. The letter shall be sent by registered or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, at the residence address of the
subordinate shown on the face of the complaint. Delivery of the letter to his
or her residence, as shown by the return receipt shall constitute service of
the complaint on the accused. A copy of the letter shall be mailed to the
Sheriff and shall constitute notice to him or her of time and place of hearing
on the complaint.
      (3)   Hearing on charges. All hearings shall follow these procedures.
         (a)   All hearings shall be public.
         (b)   At the time and place of hearing, the Sheriff and the accused
may be represented by counsel if they desire.
         (c)   All proceedings before the Commission during the hearing shall
be recorded by a court reporter to be employed by the Commission.
         (d)   The record of hearings will not be transcribed by the court
reporter unless requested by the Commission or by any party interested in the
hearing. The cost of the transcript shall be borne by the person requesting it.
         (e)   All witnesses shall be sworn by the Chairperson or another
member of the Commission prior to testifying.
         (f)   The Commission will hear the Sheriff’s witnesses first.
Thereafter, the accused may present witnesses whom he or she desires the
Commission to hear. All parties shall have the right to examine and to recall
witnesses.
         (g)   If the accused is found guilty of the charges, there shall be an
opportunity for both sides to present evidence in mitigation or aggravation.
      (4)   Decisions of charges. After the Commission has made its finding and
determined its order, it shall mail to the accused member by registered or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice of the finding an order of
the Commission. A copy of the notice shall be mailed to the Sheriff.
      (5)   Subpoena. The Sheriff and the accused subordinate or their
respective counsel may, at any time before the hearing, apply to the Commission
for subpoena directed to specific persons requiring their appearance at the
hearing, and if necessary, requiring them to produce at the hearing books,
papers, records and such other things as may be relevant to the hearing. The
application shall specify the names and addresses of the persons to be
subpoenaed and the document and things which they are to be required to
produce. Any request for continuance by reason of inability to serve subpoena
shall be filed in the office of the Commission at least five days before the
date set for the hearing.
      (6)   Filing of papers. All papers may be filed with the Commission by
mailing them to the Merit Commission in c/o Sheriff, Office of the Sheriff, 11
S. Fourth St., Pekin, Illinois. All papers may also be filed by delivering the
same to the Commission’s office personally or by messenger. For the purpose of
these rules, regulations, and procedures, the filing date of any paper shall be
the date it was received in the Commission’s office, in the event the paper is
forwarded by mail, then the filing date shall be the date which is postmarked
on the envelope containing such paper.
      (7)   Form of papers.
         (a)   All papers filed in any proceeding shall be typewritten or
printed and shall be on one side of the paper only.
         (b)   If typewritten, the lines shall be double spaced, except that
long quotations may be single spaced and indented.
         (c)   All papers shall be eight and one-half inches by 11 inches long
and shall have inside margins of not less that one inch.
         (d)   The original of all papers filed shall be signed in ink by the
party filing the paper or by his or her counsel.
         (e)   If the papers are filed by an attorney, his or her name and
address shall appear thereon.
      (8)   Continuance of hearing. No hearing shall be continued at the
request of the parties thereto or their counsel, unless request is made in
writing at lease five days before the date for which the hearing is scheduled.
      (9)   Appeals of suspensions. Any/all suspensions without pay imposed by
the Sheriff shall be applicable to the Commission so long as the appeal is
filed with the Commission within five days of the appellant having been
notified in writing of the suspension. If a hearing is held, the procedures
dealing with initial charges shall be followed by the Commission in hearing and
said appeal, except that the burden is upon the appellant to prove by a
preponderance of the evidence that the suspension imposed was quantitatively or
qualitatively unjustified.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 3-5)
§ 32.107 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   Leave of absence without pay. A leave of absence without pay may be
granted to any member of the Sheriff’s Office covered by the merit system
irrespective of rank. The leave shall be from the position and rank that he or
she holds at the time the leave is granted. Such leave may be granted whether
the officer has or has not completed his or her probationary period.
   (B)   Rules governing leaves of absence.
      (1)   All leaves of absence, except for military service, shall be for
one year or less. Leaves of absence may be granted only by the Sheriff. An
officer on leave of absence who accepts a position other than that for which
the leave is granted, without approval of the Sheriff, shall be deemed to have
resigned. An officer who fails to return to his or her position following the
granted leave, or fails to request and be granted a new leave of absence on or
before the expiration date of his or her first leave, shall also be deemed to
have resigned.
      (2)   The Sheriff shall be the sole judge of the appropriateness of the
reasons and purposes for which the leave is requested. All officers taking
leave of absence must surrender their credentials, insignia, and arms provided
by the Sheriff’s Office.
   (C)   Resignation.
      (1)   Any member covered by the merit system may resign from the
Sheriff’s Office for any reason. All officers resigning must surrender their
credentials, insignia, and arms provided by the Sheriff’s Office.
      (2)   Should a former member desire to again affiliate himself or herself
under the merit system with the Sheriff’s Office for any reason, he or she must
once again meet the basic requirements for appointment to the Sheriff’s Office
as a corrections officer and Deputy Sheriff candidate and successfully complete
the screening process in competition with all other applicants.
      (3)   All resignations are to be submitted to the Sheriff.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 3-5)
VETERANS ASSISTANCE COMMISSION
§ 32.120 RULES ESTABLISHED.
   The following are the rules of the Veterans Assistance Commission
promulgated by the Veterans Assistance Commission as authorized by law. These
rules were drafted without the direct involvement of the County Board and can
be changed by the Veterans Assistance Commission without further County Board
action, but are included in this code for ease of reference.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 4-1)
§ 32.121 TITLE.
   The official name of this central assistance and service committee shall be
the Veterans Assistance Commission of the county, by which name this Commission
shall be called and known.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 4-1)
§ 32.122 STATE LAWS.
   (A)   This Commission shall be clothed with all the powers and charged with
all the duties imposed by the laws of this state under which this Commission is
organized.
   (B)   Any changes or amendments of the existing state law or any ruling by
the Attorney General that supercedes existing veterans assistance legislation
shall be deemed an amendment to these laws.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 4-1)
§ 32.123 DELEGATES.
   (A)   This Commission shall be composed of one delegate and one alternate
from each post, detachment, camp, unit, chapter, or ship, of the following
organizations: American Legion, American Veterans of World War II, Disabled
American War Veterans, Marine Corps League, and Veterans of Foreign Wars.
   (B)   Such delegates and alternates are to be selected annually as may be
determined by each of the organizations named above and shall serve for the
term of one year to run concurrent with the fiscal year of the county and until
their successor is selected.
   (C)   If a delegate or alternate vacancy occurs, prior to completion of the
prescribed term of office, representative organizations may reappoint delegates
or alternates to fill the unexpired term.
   (D)   The Superintendent must be an honorably discharged veteran and shall
be elected by the Commission and shall, under the direction of the Commission,
have to carry on the work of the Commission.
   (E)   Neither the Superintendent nor any other employee of the Commission
shall be allowed to hold any political office during their employment by the
Commission.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 4-1)
§ 32.124 SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The executive powers of this Commission shall be vested in a
Superintendent to be designated as the Superintendent of Veterans Assistance
Commission of the county.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall be elected by the Commission shall, under the
direction of the Commission, have charge of and maintain an office in a
location in the county to be used to carry on the work of the Commission.
   (C)   There shall be a Secretary of the Commission who will be appointed by
the Superintendent.
   (D)   The Superintendent may be removed from office prior to completion of
his or her appointed term, for cause.
   (E)   Removal procedures may be instituted by written appeal to the
Commission by three member organizations.
   (F)   Upon written appeal, an investigative committee, consisting of five
delegates or alternates, shall be elected to investigate allegations of
malfeasance or any demeanor that hinders the ethical or professional standards
of the position of Superintendent.
   (G)   A report of committees findings will be made to the Commission and the
Commission shall vote upon the appeal. An affirmative vote for removal by two-
thirds the delegates or alternates attending a regular or special meeting where
there is a quorum of seven delegates present, shall terminate the
Superintendent appointment.
   (H)   All member organizations and delegates shall be notified of the
pending appeal at least ten days prior to the date that such appeal is to be
voted upon. All member organizations and delegates will be notified by first
class mail at their last known address.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 4-1)
§ 32.125 ANNUAL MEETING.
   The annual meeting of the Commission shall be held at the office of the
Commission in the county at 8:00 p.m. on the third Monday in November 1980, and
annually each year thereafter at the same hour on the third Monday of each
November. Notice of said annual meeting shall be given ten days before the time
of the said meeting in writing by the Superintendent of the Commission, sent by
first class mail to each of the members of the Commission at their address as
shown by the records of the Commission.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 4-1)
§ 32.126 CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   At the annual meeting the Commission shall elect, by secret written
ballot, from their members, a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson who are to
serve for the period of one year.
   (B)   The said Chairperson shall preside over all meetings of the
Commission, annual, regular, and special, in the event the Chairperson vacates
his or her term of office or is absent, the Vice Chairperson shall preside in
his or her stead. The Superintendent of the Commission, or the delegated
representative appointed by the Chairperson shall take minutes of all meetings
and record the name in the records of the Commission.
   (C)   There shall be elected at an annual meeting the Superintendent of the
Veterans Assistance Commission of the county who shall serve for the period of
four years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. The
Superintendent shall be chosen by secret written ballot from the list of
nominees presented by member of the Commission from the floor at the October
meeting, the nominations will be closed at this meeting.
   (D)   The nominee for Superintendent receiving the majority number of votes
cast shall be declared the elected Superintendent of the Commission.
   (E)   Each delegate shall be entitled to one vote, and if the delegate is
not present at the annual meeting, then the alternate of said delegate shall be
entitled to one vote.
   (F)   The fiscal year of the Commission shall run concurrent with the fiscal
year of the county. All delegates and alternates and elected personnel will
take office the December of the current year.
   (G)   These bylaws may be amended at any regular meeting of this Commission
if there is a quorum of at least seven delegates present, providing that the
proposed amendment has been submitted in writing and read at the last
proceeding meeting and provided further that a copy of the written amendment
has been mailed to all members of the Commission (delegates, alternates, and
officers) at least ten days in advance of the date when such amendment is to be
voted upon. All members and member organizations will be notified by first
class mail at their last known address.
   (H)   Any number of delegates at a meeting may approve the reading of the
bills and, at the direction of the Chairperson, may approve emergency bills due
to hazardous weather conditions.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 4-1)
§ 32.127 MONTHLY MEETING.
   (A)   The Commission, in addition to the annual meeting, shall meet once a
month on the third Monday of each month at the hour of 8:00 p.m., at the office
of the Commission for the purpose of transacting the business of the Commission
and examining the reports of the Superintendent, the records of distribution of
the funds of the Commission, or other funds available for distribution and such
other matters pertaining to the business of the Commission as shall be brought
before the said meeting. The annual meeting and the regular monthly meeting in
November shall be held at the same time and place. The business of the regular
will be cared for first and then to follow the business of the annual meeting.
   (B)   Proceedings at all business meeting shall governed by Robert’s Rules
of Order, revised, except as herein otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 4-1)
§ 32.128 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall formulate such rules and regulations as may be
necessary to carry out the spirit and intent of the law under which it is
organized and provided for the relief to indigent and suffering veterans and
their families and the families of deceased veterans.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Commission to seek to obtain from the
County Board an appropriation of county funds in an amount sufficient to defray
the expense and salaries of the Superintendent and Secretary and the expense of
maintaining the office of the Commission, as well as obtaining from various
towns in the county appropriations of sufficient funds to care for and carry
out the assistance referred to above and also to obtain from the county
sufficient funds for emergency assistance for veterans and their families and
the families of deceased veterans.
   (C)   At an appropriate meeting the Commission shall prepare a budget within
the limits of the funds available for the purposes of defraying all of the
expenses of the Commission and the Superintendent and Secretary.
   (D)   The Commission and the Superintendent shall make such reports as are
required by law.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 4-1)
§ 32.129 SUPERINTENDENT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Superintendent, upon election and qualification, shall obtain and
install himself or herself in the office selected and shall carry on the
service and assistance work of the Commission in the county, the Superintendent
shall hear and investigate all claims for assistance arising under the law, and
shall enter into arrangements with the Supervisors of the respective towns in
the county and with the County Board for the assistance of veterans and for the
honoring of orders by the Superintendent for that purpose. The Superintendent
shall keep full and complete records of all cases handled throughout his or her
office together with books of account which shall show all expenses and
disbursements of his or her office and the distribution of such supplies as may
be placed in his or her hands to distribute to indigent veterans and their
dependants. The Superintendent shall make reports and accounting of all
disbursements to the Commission and to the County Board as required by law and
in keeping with the regulations of the Commission and shall be subject in all
respects to the supervision of the Commission, except that the decisions of the
Superintendent upon claims for assistance shall be final in all cases.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 4-1)
§ 32.130 SPECIAL MEETING.
   The Chairperson of the Commission, upon his or her own initiative or upon
the request of five delegates in writing for a special meeting thereof, may
call a special meeting at such time as may be required for the transaction of
the business of the Commission. Notice of the special meeting shall cause a
notice written to and sent to all delegates and alternates ten days in advance
by first class mail.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 4-1)
§ 32.131 REVIEW OF RULES.
   These bylaws shall by reviewed by a committee appointed by the Chairperson
of the Commission every four years.
(Prior Code, 2 TCC 4-1)
HERITAGE LAKE SPECIAL SERVICE AREA COMMISSION
§ 32.150 CREATION OF COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created the Heritage Lake Special Service Area Commission,
which Commission of the County Board shall be subject to and operate according
to the following provisions.
(Ord. E-17-106, passed 9-27-2017)
§ 32.151 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of six Commissioners including a
Chairperson. The Commissioners shall be appointed as follows:
      (1)   County Commissioners. Three Commissioners shall consist of the
County Administrator, County Engineer, and Chairman of the County
Transportation Committee; and
      (2)   Heritage Lake Association Commissioners. Three Commissioners shall
be appointed by the Heritage Lake Association. The three Commissioners
appointed by the Heritage Lake Association shall reside within the Heritage
Lake Special Service Area and shall be members in good standing of the Heritage
Lake Association.
   (B)   Prohibited relationships.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision, no Commissioner may be an
executive officer, owner, or member of the Board of Directors of the service
provider agency selected for a services contract for that special service area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision, no business owned by a
Commissioner may, for valuable consideration, provide goods or services as a
subcontractor of a service provider agency pursuant to a services contract for
the special service area that is the subject of the Heritage Lake Special
Service Area.
      (3)   No business owned by an employee or elected official of the county
or a Commissioner, may for valuable consideration, provide goods or services as
a subcontractor of a service provider agency pursuant to a services contract
for Heritage Lake Special Service Area.
(Ord. E-17-106, passed 9-27-2017)
§ 32.152 TERMS.
   All Commissioners of the Heritage Lake Special Service Area Commission shall
serve for the following terms:
   (A)   County Commissioners. All County Commissioners shall serve for as long
as they shall occupy the position described above in § 35.151(A)(1) and until
their successors shall be duly elected or appointed and qualified; and
   (B)   Heritage Lake Association Commissioners. Each Heritage Lake
Association Commissioner shall serve for a term of three years or until his or
her successor has been appointed and qualified. The Heritage Lake Commissioners
appointed in 2017 shall be divided into three classes, each class consisting of
one representative. The Commissioner in Class I shall hold office for a term of
one year, the Commissioner in Class II shall hold office for a term of two
years, and the Commissioner in Class III shall hold office for a term of three
years, and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified.
Thereafter, as their terms of office expire, their successors shall be
appointed and shall hold office for a term of three years and until their
successors are appointed and qualified.
(Ord. E-17-106, passed 9-27-2017)
§ 32.153 MEETINGS OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Commission may be
established by the Commission.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Commission may be called by
the Chairperson or the County Board Chairman.
   (C)   Quorum. A quorum of all acting Commissioners shall consist of and be
equal to a majority of active Commissioners. Any positions that may be or
remain unfilled on said Commission shall not be counted as active Commissioners
when determining the active number of Commissioners for purposes of a quorum.
If a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of the majority of the
Commissioners present at the meeting shall be the act of the Commission. At any
adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present, any business may be
transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting. Withdrawal
of Commissioners from any meeting shall not cause a failure of a duly
constituted quorum at that meeting.
   (D)   Deadlock.
      (1)   Definition. For purposes of this provision, the term DEADLOCK shall
mean an even division in the number of Commissioners in the transaction or
management of the Commission's affairs, which the Commissioners are unable to
break, and which thereby the business of the Commission can no longer be
conducted.
      (2)   Appointment of provisional Commissioner. In the event of a deadlock
of the Commissioners, the County Treasurer shall be and become a provisional
Commissioner of the Commission. The County Treasurer shall serve only to break
the even division of the Commissioners in the transaction or management of the
Commission's affairs. Immediately after the even division among the
Commissioners has been broken, the County Treasurer shall cease to serve as a
Commissioner, until such time as there is again an even division in the number
of Commissioners in the management of the Commission's affairs, which the
Commissioners are unable to break.
   (E)   Participation by remote communications. A Commissioner or a member of
a committee appointed by the Commission may participate in a meeting by
conference telephone, electronic video screen communication, other electronic
transmission, or similar communications equipment by means of which all people
participating in the meeting can hear one another, each participant can
communicate with all of the other participants concurrently, and each
participant is provided with the means of participating in all matters before
the meeting, including the capacity to propose or to interpose an objection to
a specific action to be taken at the meeting. Participation in this manner
constitutes presence in person at the meeting.
   (F)   Open Meetings Act. All meetings of the Commission will be subject to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
(Ord. E-17-106, passed 9-27-2017)
§ 32.154 CHAIRPERSON; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   Chairperson. The Chairperson of the Heritage Lake Special Service Area
Commission shall be the County Administrator.
   (B)   Powers and duties of Chairperson. The Chairperson of the Commission
shall have the following duties and powers:
      (1)   To preside over meetings of the Commission;
      (2)   To delegate duties to Commissioners, to such other officers as the
Commission may create, and to such committees and subcommittees of the
Commission as may be created;
      (3)   To obtain performance by each of the committees of the Commission,
or subcommittees, of its functions and to otherwise cause the functions and
duties of the Commission to be performed;
      (4)   To provide general leadership and direction to the Commission;
      (5)   To work cooperatively with the Chairman of the County Board and to
keep the Chairman of the County Board informed as to the activities and plans
of the Commission and as to its recommendations and needs;
      (6)   To be an ex officio member of all committees and subcommittees of
the Commission; and
      (7)   To perform such other duties as will advance the purposes of the
Commission.
   (C)   Powers and duties of Commission. The Commission shall have the
following duties and responsibilities:
      (1)   It shall generally provide oversight and management to and for the
Service Area;
      (2)   It shall annually prepare and submit to the County Board a budget
for the Service Area on or before August 15 of each year;
      (3)   It shall annually prepare and submit to the County Board an
appropriation ordinance for the Service Area;
      (4)   It shall annually prepare and submit to the County Board a tax levy
ordinance for the Service Area;
      (5)   It shall prepare and recommend to the County Board from time to
time such changes in this subchapter creating the Service Area and the
boundaries of the Service Area or any part thereof as may be deemed necessary
by the Commission;
      (6)   It shall prepare and recommend to the County Board from time to
time plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of the
Service Area.
      (7)   It shall annually receive from the Heritage Lake Association a list
of property owners each of whom is to be assessed, and the specific properties
to be assessed, in the next succeeding tax year;
      (8)   It shall review and approve the list of property owners received
from the Heritage Lake Association, and shall certify such list to the County
Clerk; and
      (9)   It shall exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted
and as may be conferred by the County Board.
(Ord. E-17-106, passed 9-27-2017)
§ 32.155 RECORD TO BE KEPT.
   The Commission shall keep a public record of its resolutions, findings, and
determinations. It shall also file an annual report with the Chairman of the
County Board and the County Board setting forth its transactions and
recommendations. The Commission shall comply with the Illinois Freedom of
Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
(Ord. E-17-106, passed 9-27-2017)
§ 32.156 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Commission shall establish such rules and regulations as are necessary
or are desirable for its administrative operation.
(Ord. E-17-106, passed 9-27-2017)
CHAPTER 33: COUNTY BOARD
Section
   
33.01   Preamble
   
33.02   Organization and officers
   
33.03   Board staff
   
33.04   County Board meetings
   
33.05   Order of business
   
33.06   Procedure at Board meetings
   
33.07   Committees’ number, designation, and membership
   
33.08   Committees’ general functions and responsibilities
   
33.09   Committee rules
   
33.10   Functions and responsibilities of specific committees
   
33.11   Amendment of rules
   
33.12   Expenditures
   
33.13   Miscellaneous provisions
§ 33.01 PREAMBLE.
   (A)    The members of the County Board express their expectations and intent
that all Board members follow a high standard of ethical behavior in exercising
their duties, responsibilities, and judgment as Board members.
   (B)   All members of the County Board shall:
      (1)   Handle county affairs with a deep sense of responsibility,
upholding the spirit as well as the letter of the law and constitution;
      (2)   Faithfully perform all duties as Board members by studying Board
issues and by attending all sessions of the Board and assigned committees,
unless prevented from so doing by a compelling reason;
      (3)   Avoid participation in any action which would result in a conflict
of personal interest with county responsibility;
      (4)   Refrain from obtaining improper personal benefit with regard to
public funds, equipment, property, or the services of employees;
      (5)   Respect the confidentiality of privileged information; and
      (6)   Refrain from accepting gifts, favors, or promises of future benefit
which could tend to impair independence of judgment or action as a Board
member.
   (C)   The above preamble and the following rules shall govern the County
Board.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 4-1) (Ord. E-18-22, passed 2-25-2018)
§ 33.02 ORGANIZATION AND OFFICERS.
   (A)   Initial meeting. In years of County Board elections the initial
meeting of the County Board shall be the first Monday in December. The Board
Chairman shall call the meeting to order and preside.
   (B)   General powers of Chairman. The Chairman shall:
      (1)   Be responsible for administering the Board Office, including the
supervision of staff and assignment of work;
      (2)   Preside at all meetings of the Board and the Executive Committee;
      (3)   Conduct the business of the Board meetings in the order prescribed
in these rules with all necessary general powers including, but not limited to:
recognize members entitled to the floor; to state and to put to a vote all
questions which are regularly moved and seconded or which necessarily arise in
the course of the proceedings; to announce the results thereof; to protect the
Board from all frivolous or dilatory actions; to decide all questions of order,
subject to an appeal to the Board, in case of disturbances, breech of decorum,
or disorderly conduct; to take action pursuant to §
33.06(M); and to assist in expediting the business of the Board;
      (4)   Have all the powers necessary to perform all other duties
prescribed by law or by action of the Board; and
      (5)   Vote only when the vote of the Board results in a tie.
   (C)   Appointment and duties of Vice Chairman of the Board and standing
committees.
      (1)   Vice Chairman. The Vice Chairman of the Board shall be nominated by
the Chairman and subject to the approval of the full Board. The Vice Chairman
must be a member of the Board and shall be a member of the Executive Committee
and may also serve as Chairman of any committee or subcommittee.
      (2)   In case of the temporary absence of the Chairman or at the request
of the Chairman, the Vice Chairman shall assume the duties and responsibilities
of the Chairman on an interim basis, during which time the Vice Chairman shall
have all of the powers and duties of the Chairman, including the authority to
execute and sign on behalf of the county all ordinances, resolutions,
intergovernmental agreements, contracts, and any other legal instruments
approved by the County Board, unless otherwise provided by law. In case of the
absence of the Chairman and the Vice Chairman at any meeting of the Board, the
next available Board Member on the "Order of Next" shall have those powers
listed above. The "Order of Next", a document to be created by the County Board
Chair, is a list of those Board Members who shall succeed in the absence of the
Chair and Vice Chair of the full Board and each County Board Committee.
      (3)   Standing committee. The Chairman of the Board shall appoint the
Chairman, Vice Chairman, and members of all standing committees not later than
the initial December Board meeting in each year in which Board elections are
held.
      (4)   Vacancies. In case of a vacancy on the Board, the person named to
fill the vacancy may also fill any vacancies on standing or special committees
except that such person shall not be designated as Chairman or Vice Chairman
thereof. When a vacancy has been created on a committee of the Board, the
Chairman of the Board shall have the authority to fill that vacancy. The Vice
Chairman of the Committee shall serve as interim Chairman until such
appointment is made.
   (D)   Clerk of the Board. The County Clerk or a deputy selected by the
County Clerk shall be the Clerk of the Board. The Clerk shall be the keeper of
the records and the minutes of the Board and shall be in attendance at all
meetings of the Board.
   (E)   Minutes of closed meetings. Minutes of any closed meeting held
pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1.01 et seq. shall be made
available to the members of the body which conducted such meetings at the next
meeting of that body for approval. Upon approval of closed session County Board
minutes, all distributed copies shall be returned to the County Clerk. Upon
approval of closed session committee minutes, all distributed copies shall be
returned to the Secretary of the Committee. The minutes shall be kept in a
secure location and a copy shall be submitted to the State's Attorney. The
State's Attorney shall preserve the copy in a secure location. Such minutes
shall be reviewed at least semi-annually by the Board for continued need for
confidentiality in accordance with the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
   (F)   Parliamentarian. The Board Chairman shall designate a member as
Parliamentarian subject to the approval of the full Board. Upon request of the
Chairman or a member of the Board, the Parliamentarian shall render advice or
an opinion on questions of parliamentary law and procedure applicable to the
members arising before the Board. The rules or parliamentary procedures as set
forth in the latest published edition of Roberts Rules of Order, Revised shall
govern the procedure of the Board in all cases applicable and to the extent not
inconsistent with these rules.
   (G)   Appointments of officers and or members to various boards, councils,
commissions, special authorities, special districts, and other agencies shall
be made by nomination by the Chairman and approval of the Board unless
otherwise provided by law.
   (H)   Procedure for filling vacancies in elective county offices. When a
vacancy in any county elective office occurs, the procedure for filling such
vacancy shall be as follows, to the extent consistent with any laws (10 ILCS 5/
25-11) (Note: Circuit Clerk vacancy is filled by Circuit Judges, 10 ILCS 5/25-
10).
      (1)   When such vacancy occurs, the Chairman shall give notice of the
vacancy to the County Central Committee of each political party within the
county within three days of the occurrence.
      (2)   The Chairman shall provide notice of the appointment of a successor
to the members of the Board seven days prior to an Executive Committee meeting.
      (3)   The appointee must meet all the qualifications for holding the
public office and must provide evidence of membership in the same political
party as the person who the appointee proposes to succeed.
      (4)   At a regular Board meeting within 60 days of the vacancy occurring,
the appointment shall appear on the agenda and is subject to the approval of
the Board.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 4-2) (Ord. E-18-22, passed 2-25-2018; Res. E-23-90, passed
5-31-2023; Res. E-23-131, passed 10-25-2023)
§ 33.03 BOARD STAFF.
   (A)    he County Board may be served by Board staff as authorized by the
County Board.
   (B)   All work shall be assigned to the staff by the Board Chairman or the
County Administrator. Any Board member requiring services from the Board staff
shall make such request through the Board Chairman or the County Administrator.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 4-3) (Ord. E-18-22, passed 2-25-2018)
§ 33.04 COUNTY BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the full Board shall be held in
the county board room on the last Wednesday of each month convening at 6:00
p.m., except when other meeting dates/times are designated. A monthly schedule
of meetings shall be made available to all members and other interested
persons. All meetings of the Board and its committees shall be open to the
public, except for limited purposes as specified by law.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Board shall be held when
requested by the Chairman or at least one-third of the members of the Board.
The requests shall be in writing, addressed to the Clerk, and specify the time,
place, and the nature of matters to be considered. Except in the event of a
meeting being held for a bona fide emergency as provided in the Open Meetings
Act, the requests shall be submitted by 4:30 p.m. at least five days before the
meeting date. The Clerk shall immediately notify, in writing, each member and
the County Administrator of the time and place of such meeting and shall also
cause notice of such meeting to be published in a newspaper published in the
county.
   (C)   Agenda preparation. The Chairman shall prepare, or cause to be
prepared, an agenda for each regular meeting, listing the order of business in
as much detail as is practical, and shall file the agenda with the County
Clerk. The agenda shall include a "consent agenda" which shall include all
matters that are to come before the Board that in the opinion of the Chairman
will be of a routine nature.
   (D)   Reports and communications. Any committee Chairman or any elected or
appointed county official who desires to present any report or communication to
the Board shall deliver a copy of same to the Chairman by the sixth calendar
day prior to the Board meeting. Failure to comply with this rule will not
prohibit a report or communication from being considered by the Board. A
Committee Chairman would not be precluded from scheduling an in-place meeting
during a County Board meeting when approved by the County Board Chairman and
proper notice will be provided as required by the Open Meetings Act.
   (E)   Agenda notification.
      (1)   At least three business days before each regular meeting, the
County Administrator, or designee, shall send to each member, by email or other
electronic method, the following documents:
         (a)   Agenda for the next meeting;
         (b)   Minutes of the previous meeting;
         (c)   Resolutions, ordinances, and written reports to come before the
Board at next meeting, which has been filed with the Board office; and
         (d)   All other material that in the opinion of the Chairman will be
of interest to Members.
      (2)   The County Administrator, or the County Administrator's designee,
shall provide for public notice, including as required by the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.).
   (F)   Resolution of congratulations or bereavement. Any Board member who
desires to have the Board adopt a resolution of congratulations or bereavement,
recognition to an individual, group achievement, and/or community special event
shall forward the resolution (or the information to be included in the
resolution) to the Chairman's office six business days prior to the Board
meeting (or as soon as possible for a bereavement). In lieu of a formal
resolution of congratulations, a Board member may move that the Board Chairman
prepare a letter of congratulations in recognition of an individual, group
achievement, and/or community special event. The Chairman shall include all
such letters on the consent agenda of the next regularly scheduled Board
meeting.
   (G)   Items for final action by the Board. Ordinances, resolutions (except
those covered by division (F) above), and other agenda items requiring final
action by the Board must be reported out of a standing committee to the Board
to be placed in the agenda for a final vote. A copy of the motion to be
presented to the Board shall be given to the Chairman and the State's Attorney
(unless prepared by the State's Attorney) at least six calendar days prior to
the Board meeting at which it is to be considered. Any motion made that does
not comply with this provision may only be considered by suspension of the
rules. Matters which are frequently adopted by the Board in the same form
except as to certain detail, such as highway resolutions, need not be so timely
with the Chairman, or furnished to the State's Attorney.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 4-4) (Ord. E-18-22, passed 2-25-2018; Res. E-23-90, passed
5-31-2023; Res. E-23-131, passed 10-25-2023)
§ 33.05 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
    The order of business before the Board and each County Board committee
shall be as follows, unless otherwise determined by action of the Board:
   (A)   Roll call;
   (B)   Invocation and pledge of allegiance;
   (C)   Approval of minutes;
   (D)   Communications from members of the public and county employees;
   (E)   Communications from elected and appointed county officials;
   (F)   Consent agenda;
   (G)   Appointments;
   (H)   Unfinished business;
   (I)   New business;
   (J)   Review of bills;
   (K)   Approval of calendar of meetings for succeeding month; and
   (L)   Recess.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 4-5) (Ord. E-18-22, passed 2-25-2018)
§ 33.06 PROCEDURE AT BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   Quorum. A majority of the members of the Board, exclusive of the
Chairman, shall constitute a quorum.
   (B)   General voting. Unless otherwise expressly provided, any actions taken
by the Board or any committee shall only require the affirmative vote of the
majority of the members present and voting.
   (C)   Roll call vote.
      (1)   A roll call vote of the Board shall be taken by a "yes" or "no",
"abstain" (with reason), or "present" vote on the following matters:
         (a)   All contracts relating to the sale or leasing of county
property;
         (b)   Appropriation and tax levy ordinances;
         (c)   All expenditures of county funds;
         (d)   Any other matter required by law; and
         (e)   Upon any other matters, when announced by the Chairman or
requested by two members, providing such request is made before another item of
business has been taken by the Board.
      (2)   On a roll call vote the Clerk shall call the names of the members
of the Board in alphabetical order, with the first names called for each roll
call being the second name called in the previous roll call. The Chairman shall
only vote when the vote of the Board results in a tie.
      (3)   A member who has voted on a roll call vote shall not be allowed to
change that vote on the matter under consideration after the tally is
announced. A member not voting when called upon by the Clerk will be presumed
absent and will not be allowed to cast a vote on the matter under
consideration.
   (D)   Recognition.
      (1)   Every member previous to speaking or making a motion shall first be
recognized by the Chairman.
      (2)   When two or more members request recognition at the same time, the
Chairman shall recognize the member who is to speak first.
      (3)   No person shall speak more than twice nor more than five minutes on
the same matter without permission from the Chairman.
   (E)   Motion to adjourn or recess. A motion to adjourn or recess shall
always be in order and shall be decided without debate.
   (F)   Reconsideration. An action may be reconsidered at any time during the
meeting or at the next meeting held thereafter. A motion to reconsider shall be
made and seconded by members of the Board who voted on the prevailing side of
the question to be reconsidered.
   (G)   Second required. No motion shall be debated or put to a vote unless it
is seconded. It shall then be stated by the Chairman before debate or vote and
every motion shall be reduced to writing when requested by the Chairman or any
member.
   (H)   Appearance by non-members.
      (1)   Any member may request that a county officer or employee, or other
persons, be permitted to appear before the Board on matters of county business,
and such request shall be granted by the Chairman unless there is objection by
any member, in which event Board action will be required to overrule the
Chairman.
      (2)   Members of the public who wish to address the Board must provide
the Chairman with written notice of their intent to speak prior to the meeting
being called to order. The pre-printed written notice shall request the name
and address of the speaker, as well as a short statement indicating the
speaker’s topic. Members of the public are not, however, required to provide
their address as a precondition to addressing the Board. Such appearance with
regard to any particular topic shall be limited to a time not to exceed five
minutes for each individual, unless revised by the Chairman, and 30 minutes
total. The Chairman may reduce the time allotted per individual when it is
expected that the aggregate time would exceed 30 minutes. The Chairman may act
to prevent repetition or digression, to maintain decorum and to exclude
discussion of matters which have had a previous public hearing conducted
according to law, discussion of matters where public comment would interfere
with the due process of law or discussion of matters which would be in direct
conflict with restrictions placed upon the Board by other applicable law.
   (I)   Request for legal opinions. Formal requests to the State's Attorney on
questions of law shall be submitted in writing by a standing committee, the
County Administrator, department heads, or by the Chairman of the Board. The
Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board and members of the Executive Committee
shall receive copies of formal written requests for legal opinions. Said copies
shall also be included in materials distributed to members of the Board as
provided in §
33.04(E) prior to the next meeting of the Board unless such request originated
after said materials have been distributed, in which case such copies shall be
distributed at the beginning of the meeting. Any member of the Board desiring
an advisory opinion on a matter within the jurisdiction of a standing committee
shall submit such request to the appropriate standing committee. If
unsuccessful before a standing committee, a member may then take such request
in the form of a motion at any meeting of the Board which shall be granted upon
approval be a majority of the members of the Board.
   (J)   Suspension of rules. Any of these rules may be temporarily suspended
by action of a two-thirds majority of members present and voting on the Board.
Immediately upon the termination of the business arising out of the event for
which the rules were suspended, these rules shall again be in effect without
vote of the Board.
   (K)   Consent agenda. All matters on the consent agenda that are not removed
will be voted on by voice vote. An item shall be removed from the consent
agenda upon the oral request of any member of the Board made prior to the vote.
Any matter taken off of the consent agenda shall be considered at the time of
the standing committee report to which it pertains.
   (L)   Closed meeting or session. Any closed meeting or closed session held
by the Board shall be held in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois
Open Meetings Act. Neither the news media nor the general public shall be
allowed to record the proceedings of any said closed meeting or closed session.
   (M)   Decorum. During the proceedings of the County Board decorum shall be
maintained at all times by members, interested parties, the public, and the
media. The Chairman shall be authorized to take appropriate action to maintain
said decorum.
   (N)   Contracts. No contract shall be approved by the Board unless all Board
members have been given the opportunity to obtain a copy of the contract not
less than 24 hours before the Board meeting unless the Board finds the contract
at issue to be of the essence.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 4-6) (Ord. E-18-22, passed 2-25-2018; Res. E-23-131, passed
10-25-2023)
§ 33.07 COMMITTEES’ NUMBER, DESIGNATION, AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The standing committees.
      (1)   Standing committees are:
         (a)   The Executive Committee, which consists of the Board Chairman,
Vice Chairman of the Board, and the Chairman of the other standing committees,
as well as any other Board member designated by the Chairman. The Chairman of
the Board shall have the same voting rights as designated in §
33.02(B); and
         (b)   The Finance Committee, Human Resources Committee, Transportation
Committee, Health Services Committee, Property Committee, Land Use and
Development Committee, the Executive Committee, and Risk Management Policy
Committee. All standing committees may have up to 11 members exclusive of the
Board Chairman unless otherwise required by these rules.
      (2)   Each Board member shall serve on two or more standing committees.
      (3)   The Chairman of the Board shall be an ex officio member of all
standing committees and subcommittees. The Board Chairman shall have the same
voting rights as provided in §
33.02(B).
      (4)   The Committee Chairman shall have the same voting rights as any
member of the Committee.
   (B)   Quorum. A majority of the members of a committee, subcommittee, or ad
hoc committee shall constitute a quorum. The Board Chairman's attendance at a
committee meeting (but not a subcommittee meeting) shall be counted when
determining if a quorum is present; however, such attendance shall not increase
the number of members constituting a quorum.
   (C)   Recording of votes. Roll call votes shall be required in committees as
in §
33.06(C). Whenever a roll call vote is not taken, any member may have their own
vote recorded in the minutes by so requesting at the time the vote is taken.
   (D)   Alternate members and attendance of members at committee meetings
other than those to which they are assigned.
      (1)   An alternate member may be appointed to each standing committee by
the Chairman of the Board and such alternative shall attend meetings of such
committee if required to constitute a quorum and shall have all the privileges
and duties of a regular member while so serving.
      (2)   Board members may attend and have access to minutes resulting from
any open or closed meetings or sessions of committees of which they are not
members. At the discretion of the Committee Chairman, during the meeting, the
Board member may participate in the meeting but without voting privilege or
payment of per diem, mileage, or expenses.
      (3)   Any closed meeting or closed session held by any committee of the
County Board shall be held in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois
Open Meeting Act. Neither the news media nor the general public shall be
allowed to record the closed session.
      (4)   Decorum during the proceedings of all committee meetings shall be
maintained at all times by members, interested parties, the public, and the
media. The Committee Chairman shall be authorized to take appropriate action to
maintain said decorum.
   (E)   Subcommittees of standing committees.
      (1)   Subcommittees of the Executive Committee. The standing
subcommittees of the Executive Committee are: Rules Subcommittee, Collective
Bargaining Subcommittee, Legal Services Subcommittee, Legislative Subcommittee,
and Ethics Commission Subcommittee appointed by the Chairman. In addition, the
Chairman may create and appoint up to six members to such subcommittees and
advisory groups deemed necessary from time to time to more efficiently
accomplish the business of the committee. Membership of any subcommittee of the
Executive Committee shall consist of Board members but shall not be restricted
to members of the Executive Committee. Membership of any advisory group shall
not be restricted to Board Members. Except as otherwise provided by statute or
ordinance, such subcommittee shall report to the Executive Committee.
      (2)   Subcommittees of other standing committees. The Chairman of any
standing committee may create such subcommittee of his committee as may be
necessary from time to time to more efficiently accomplish the business of such
standing committee. The Board Chairman shall be an ex officio member of any
such subcommittee with the same voting rights as provided in §
33.02(B). Appointment to such subcommittee shall be made by the committee
Chairman and shall be restricted to members of the standing committee. Except
as otherwise provided, such subcommittees shall report to their standing
committee.
   (F)   Frequent absences. Any member who shall have frequent absences without
reasonable cause may, at the discretion of the Board Chairman and Committee
Chairman, be removed from the Committee.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 4-7) (Ord. E-18-22, passed 2-25-2018; Res. E-23-131, passed
10-25-2023; Res. E-24-45, passed 4-24-2024)
§ 33.08 COMMITTEES’ GENERAL FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The general function and responsibilities of each committee are:
   (A)   With the aid of the Board Chairman, County Administrator, State's
Attorney, Auditor, Treasurer and Executive Committee, to keep informed
concerning appropriations and the budget for activities under the purview of
the committee and to help keep expenditures within the budget;
   (B)   To have the Secretary of the Committee keep written minutes and to
report regularly to the Board the substance of all meetings, with the Secretary
of the Committee assigned as follows:
      (1)   For Land Use Committee, along with any subcommittees and ad-hoc
committees of the Land Use Committee, the secretary shall be one member of the
Community Development Department staff;
      (2)   For Transportation Committee, along with any subcommittees and ad-
hoc committees of the Transportation Committee, the secretary shall be one
member of the Highway Department staff;
      (3)   For Health Services Committee, along with any subcommittees and ad-
hoc committees of the Health Committee, the secretary shall be one member of
the Health Department; and
      (4)   For all other standing committees, subcommittees and ad-hoc
committees, the secretary shall be the County Board Office Secretary.
      (5)   All committee secretaries will be sworn in and deputized by the
Tazewell County Clerk to take minutes with his/her authority. Only deputized
individuals will be authorized to take committee, subcommittee, and ad-hoc
committee minutes. If the individual assigned above is not available to take
the assigned minutes, the other deputized employees or any employee of the
County Clerk’s office is authorized to take minutes in their place.
   (C)   To have the secretary of the committee maintain all records and
minutes of the committee. The secretary shall send by email, or other
electronic means, drafted minutes of open meetings to the members of the Board
and to the County Administrator. Once minutes of open meetings are approved by
the committee, the secretary shall provide the County Clerk with a copy of the
approved minutes and a copy of the documents included with the agenda within 15
business days of the approval of the minutes. The County Clerk shall keep those
minutes and agenda documents in a searchable database accessible through the
internet, with the files being viewable within 30 days upon receipt. In the
event that the most recent meeting date of a subcommittee or an ad-hoc
committee exceeds one year, the standing committee shall approve the minutes;
   (D)   To submit to the County Board for consideration all policies and
procedures as recommended by the committee;
   (E)   To act on all matters referred to by the committee by the Chairman of
the Board or by the Board itself, in addition to duties otherwise prescribed;
and
   (F)   To keep informed with regard to activities of any department which is
under its general supervision or for which it serves as liaison with the Board
in instances where such activities are concerned with another committee.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 4-8) (Ord. E-18-22, passed 2-25-2018; Res. E-23-90, passed
5-31-2023; Res. E-23-131, passed 10-25-2023)
§ 33.09 COMMITTEE RULES.
   (A)    Committees shall take final action only on those matters authorized
herein or by ordinance, resolution, or policy adopted by the Board.
   (B)   A committee shall allow non-members to appear before it when such
appearance is appropriate and does not violate due process of law. A request
for such appearance shall be directed to the Committee Chairman in writing with
the subject matter stated at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting unless
otherwise allowed by the Committee Chairman. The committee shall have the right
to set reasonable time limits, prevent unruly conduct, and require groups to be
represented by one spokesman.
   (C)   The regular committee meeting dates, location, and times shall be set
by the Committee Chairman after consultation with the committee members.
   (D)   Each Committee Chairman shall require the Secretary of the Committee
to prepare and send, by email or other electronic method, an agenda to all
committee members in advance of a regularly scheduled meeting. The secretary of
the committee shall provide for public notice, including as required by the
Illinois Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.).
   (E)   Committees shall use the public address system when meeting in the
county board room, except during closed meetings.
   (F)   Items for the agenda shall be provided to the secretary of the
committee at least seven days prior to the meeting date. Items received within
seven days may be allowed at the discretion of the Committee Chairman when Open
Meetings Act requirements can still be met.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 4-9) (Ord. E-18-22, passed 2-25-2018; Res. E-23-90, passed
5-31-2023; Res. E-23-131, passed 10-25-2023)
§ 33.10 FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF SPECIFIC COMMITTEES.
    In addition to the general duties otherwise prescribed, the individual
committees shall have the functions, responsibilities, and areas of
jurisdiction and otherwise as set forth in this section.
   (A)   Executive Committee.
      (1)   To provide general direction for all Board programs, business,
planning and policy making functions, and to review the reports of Board
committees;
      (2)   To exercise general supervision of the administration of all Board
affairs, including coordination of all committees;
      (3)   To act in an advisory capacity to the Chairman of the Board;
      (4)   To review and make recommendations for changes in committee
organizations and scope and in rules as may be deemed necessary;
      (5)   To be responsible for the general overview of, and coordination
with, all ad hoc committees, task force, and other like organizations as their
activities relate to county business, unless specifically under the
jurisdiction of another standing committee;
      (6)   To be responsible for all matters concerning the employment and
activities of all consultants, both paid and unpaid, unless specifically under
the jurisdiction of another standing committee;
      (7)   To be responsible for all relationships with other units of
government and for intergovernmental agreements unless specifically under the
jurisdiction of another standing committee;
      (8)   To exercise general supervision over all matters relating to the
codification of county ordinances and resolutions;
      (9)   To exercise general supervision over any federal or state
entitlement programs for which the Board has responsibility;
      (10)   To serve as liaison in the Board's relationship with external
boards and commissions with which the Board may have a working relationship;
      (11)   To serve as the oversight committee for all local, state, and
federal economic development programs, including, but not limited to, the
county's intergovernmental agreement with the Economic Development Council of
Peoria, Inc., and to exercise general supervision over all economic development
grants;
      (12)   To review matters related to supervision over all licensing
activities including raffles and charitable games;
      (13)   To exercise general supervision over all licensing activities
including raffles and charitable games; and
      (14)   To evaluate the performance of the County Administrator and to
recommend salary and other terms of the Administrator's employment agreement.
   (B)   Rules Committee.
      (1)   To periodically review the rules of the Board and recommend
revisions deemed necessary and appropriate; and
      (2)   To receive and consider proposals for changes in the rules of the
Board and make appropriate recommendations.
   (C)   Collective Bargaining Committee. To exercise general supervision over
all collective bargaining agreements, employee benefit, and entitlement, and
make recommendations to the Board.
   (D)   Legislative Liaison Committee. To serve as oversight committee for
legislative research and review.
   (E)   Finance Committee.
      (1)   To exercise continuous review of the overall tax cycle from the
initial assessment of property through tax collection;
      (2)   To exercise continuous review of revenues and expenditures, and to
identify new or alternative revenue sources of the county;
      (3)   To review and make recommendations to the Board with respect to
purchasing and contracting policies and procedures;
      (4)   To exercise continuous review of financial management, accounting,
and fiscal operations;
      (5)   To serve as the oversight committee for the office of the
Supervisor of Assessments;
      (6)   To serve as the liaison committee for all officials;
      (7)   To be responsible for fiscal instruments;
      (8)   To recommend to the Board a public accounting firm to conduct an
annual audit of all funds and accounts of the county;
      (9)   To make recommendation on all emergency appropriations, transfer
ordinances, and any transfers from the Contingent Account in all funds;
      (10)   To receive the proposed annual operating and annual capital
improvements budgets for each of the departments of county government as
recommended by the respective oversight committees; and to study, review, and
adjust such departmental budget requests in order to accommodate budgetary
priorities and fiscal constraints. To review the proposed budget and
appropriation ordinance and proposed tax levy ordinance, which shall be
submitted to the Board with the Executive Committee's recommendation, in
accordance with state statutes; and
      (11)   To review the outside auditor's management letter, request
departmental responses to same, and make recommendations to the Board and the
various oversight committees.
   (F)   Human Resources Committee.
      (1)   To prepare and make recommendation to the Board with respect to the
personnel policies and procedures which are not subject to collective
bargaining;
      (2)   To consider all requests for compensation changes or
reclassification and make a recommendation to the Board;
      (3)   To consider all requests for staffing changes which require
additional staff and make a recommendation to the Board;
      (4)   To exercise general supervision over the administration of the
position classification schedules and the salary schedules;
      (5)   To act as the oversight committee for the County Health Care
Program, Workers Compensation, and all non-liability insurance matters,
including property claims and property insurance matters; and
      (6)   To review and make recommendations to the Board on salaries and
compensation of elected and appointed officials.
   (G)   Transportation Committee.
      (1)   To serve as the oversight committee for the County Highway
Department;
      (2)   To exercise general supervision over all bridge, road, and right-
of-way matters under the jurisdiction of the county; over the acquisition and
disposition of County Highway equipment and materials;
      (3)   To recommend to the Board approval of contracts for all highway
work and transportation programs for which the county is responsible;
      (4)   To exercise general supervision over the letting of bids and right-
of-way acquisitions relating to County Highways or the County Highway
Department;
      (5)   To provide the Board with long range plans for the highways in the
county, including those to be undertaken by the county and those planned
jointly with other political units; and
      (6)   To exercise general supervision over matters which are assigned to
this committee with regard to the buildings and grounds at the County Highway
Complex and any departmental expenditures.
   (H)   Health Services Committee.
      (1)   To serve as liaison in the Board's relationship with the Board of
Health and the Persons with Developmental Disabilities (PDD) Board, and any
other county physical and mental service;
      (2)   To act as the oversight committee for the Animal Control Program;
      (3)   To exercise general supervision over matters which are assigned by
the Property Committee to this committee with regard to county buildings and
grounds;
      (4)   To act as the oversight committee for the County Solid Waste
Management Plan. However, the siting of new or expansion of existing landfills,
incinerator facilities, and transfer stations shall be as required in the site
approval ordinance (see
Chapter 156); and
      (5)   To review all matters related to environmental concerns.
   (I)   Property Committee.
      (1)   To serve as the oversight committee for, and exercise general
supervision over, all county real property and to prepare plans and policies
for county participation in recreational facilities and programs, and make
appropriate recommendations to the Board;
      (2)   To coordinate with appropriate standing committees in planning for
any remodeling and expansion of any real property, and the acquisition of any
equipment or services;
      (3)   To exercise general supervision over matters which are assigned to
other committees regarding county buildings and grounds; and
      (4)   To direct the County Administrator or his designee to prepare,
recommend, and submit to the appropriate oversight committees each year a five-
year capital improvement program. The five-year capital improvement program
shall be updated annually as a part of the budget process.
   (J)   Land Use and Development Committee.
      (1)   To serve as the oversight committee for the Department of Community
Development and to handle all matters upon which the zoning ordinance requires
action by a committee of the Board;
      (2)   To exercise general supervision over matters concerning maps,
plats, and subdivisions, and to conduct public hearings and handle all other
matters upon which the land subdivision ordinance requires action by a
committee of the Board;
      (3)   In cooperation with the Director of Community Development, to
review and recommend environment, zoning, building, subdivision, mobile home,
and nuisance ordinances and resolutions, and recommend any necessary changes to
the Board;
      (4)   To act as oversight committee between the Board and the Zoning
Board Appeals; and
      (5)   In cooperation with the appropriate agencies, to recommend for
adoption of long-range comprehensive plan or portion thereof for the use of
land, for protection of the environment, and to coordinate economic
development.
   (K)   Risk Management Policy Committee. Together with the Treasurer,
Auditor, and State's Attorney, to act as the governing committee for the Self-
Funded Risk-Management and Liability Insurance Plan originally effective on
December 1, 1988, as amended.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 4-10) (Ord. E-18-22, passed 2-25-2018)
§ 33.11 AMENDMENT OF RULES.
    Amendment of these rules shall require the approval of the Executive
Committee and the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board.
Any proposed amendment shall be voted upon only if it is distributed in writing
to the members at least one month before the meeting at which the amendment is
presented to the Board for adoption.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 4-11) (Ord. E-18-22, passed 2-25-2018)
§ 33.12 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Compensation and reimbursement of Board Members.
      (1)   Submitting Claim Vouchers. Claim vouchers for per diem compensation
and reimbursement of expenses shall be submitted to the Auditor by the tenth
day of the month for presentation to the Finance Committee. Per diem requests
must be accompanied by the written approval of the Chairman of the Board.
Requests for reimbursement of expenses shall include a description of the
expense incurred, purpose of expense, date incurred, and the signature of the
member, verifying that such expenses was incurred for the benefit of the
county. Additionally, mileage reimbursement requests shall not be paid unless
the voucher states date, origin, and destination of travel; and purpose and
number of miles.
      (2)   Per diem compensation.
         (a)   In addition to an annual salary of $2,400, which is to be paid
in 12 equal monthly installments each year, Board members shall receive a per
diem for each day that a standing committee meeting was physically attended and
when time is spent on authorized Board business beyond regular meetings of the
County Board. "Authorized Board business" is limited to activities approved by
the Board Chairman including, but not limited to, the following examples:
            1.   Attendance at special meetings of the full Board;
            2.   Attendance at a formal meeting of another governing or
advisory body as the officially appointed representative of the Board to such
body (for example, Health Department, Tri-County Regional Planning Commission
and its Executive Board, PPUATS Policy and Technical Committees);
            3.   Attendance at any meeting of a board, commission, or agency to
which they have been appointed as a liaison (for example, Veteran's Commission,
Persons with Developmental Disabilities Board, Board of Health, We-Care Board,
Youth Services Board, Heartland Water Resources Board, Prairie Rivers RC&D
Board, Tazewell County Farm Bureau, Pekin Main Street);
            4.   Attendance at the County Zoning Board of Appeals by members
appointed to the Land Use Committee and by other members approved by the Board
Chairman;
            5.   County Board Chairman approved attendance at education
seminars and other training, meetings with other governmental agencies, and
attendance to perform other work connected with the official business of the
county.
         (b)   The per diem amount shall be $75.
         (c)   “Per diem” means “per day” and therefore, regardless of the
amount of Board business conducted in a single day, per diem compensation shall
never be more than $75 for any single day.
      (3)   Mileage reimbursement.
         (a)   Mileage shall be reimbursed at the rate in effect under
regulations promulgated pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code (5 U.S.C. § 5707
(b)(2)). All other expenses (fuel, lubricants, insurance, towing, and the like)
are the sole responsibility of the Board member.
         (b)   Mileage shall be reimbursed for travel to:
            1.   Any County Board meeting and standing committee;
            2.   Any activity which would qualify as authorized Board business
for per diem compensation; and
            3.   Any site which is the subject of a zoning decision or
transportation project before the full Board.
         (c)   The number of miles reimbursed shall be limited to the lesser
of:
            1.   The round trip route from the member's residence to the
activity or site; or
            2.   The actual route traveled to and from the activity/site.
      (4)   Miscellaneous reimbursement. Reimbursement for all other expenses
shall be in accordance with the policy for all county employees.
      (5)   Claim vouchers for mileage, per diem and miscellaneous
reimbursements of expenses shall be submitted to the County Board office.
Requests for reimbursement of expenses shall include a description of the
expense incurred and the signature of the Board member, elected official, or
department head verifying that such expenses were incurred for the benefit of
the county. Additionally, mileage reimbursement requests shall not be paid
unless the voucher states:
         (a)   Date, origin, and destination of travel;
         (b)   Specific county business purpose; and
         (c)   Number of miles.
      (6)   Reimbursement requests for mileage, per diem or miscellaneous
expense reimbursement requests submitted after 60 days following the last day
of the month during which the meeting/travel occurred shall not be paid. Any
board member waiting beyond the 60-day period shall forfeit all rights to such
reimbursement.
   (B)   Payment of bills.
      (1)   All bills shall be submitted to the Finance Committee Chairman to
determine whether some or all claims against the county should be allowed or
disallowed, if sufficient funds have been budgeted and are available in the
appropriate county fund.
      (2)   The Auditor will provide a monthly report of all claims paid in the
prior month to the Board and the Board Chairman for review of each claim paid
and that the report will identify the creditor, the department or county
official which purchased the product or service, the fund from which the
payment was made and the amount of the payment, and the date the check was
issued.
   (C)   Payments of per diems for members of the County Board, the Zoning
Board of Appeals, and the Merit Commission shall be eligible for direct deposit
through the Payroll Department with any amendments to per diems occurring in
the next payroll.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 4-12) (Ord. E-18-22, passed 2-25-2018; Res. E-23-19, passed
1-25-2023; Res. E-23-131, passed 10-25-2023; Res. E-24-45, passed 4-24-2024)
§ 33.13 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Emergency procedure. In case of an emergency, the Chairman of the
Board shall be given the power to act on behalf of the Board. A letter setting
forth the circumstances constituting the emergency shall be filed with the
County Clerk (and with the Auditor, if any expenditures are involved). At the
next meeting of the Board, by roll call vote, a resolution shall be considered
regarding the emergency, stating therein the circumstances constituting the
emergency and the Board's concurrence.
   (B)   Records of the Board. Any appropriate documents shall be placed on
file among the records of the Board or a committee, as the case may be, by
direction of the Chairman. Minutes of the Board or a committee shall be
approved at the direction of the Chairman after opportunity is given for
correction, addition, or deletion. Such action shall be reflected in the
minutes of that meeting.
   (C)   Conflict of interest. No Board member shall vote on their own
appointment to a position that includes compensation in excess of the per diem
provided by these rules.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 4-13) (Ord. E-18-22, passed 2-25-2018)
CHAPTER 34: CODE HEARING UNIT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Jurisdiction
   
34.03   Combined Code Hearing Unit authorized
   
34.04   Director and hearing officers; appointment
   
34.05   Order and other pleading forms
   
34.06   Hearing officers; powers and duties
   
34.07   Hearing officers; training requirements
   
34.08   Rules and regulations; available for public inspection
Administration
   
34.20   Initiating administrative adjudication proceedings
   
34.21   Subpoenas
   
34.22   Election of remedies
   
34.23   Administrative hearing not exclusive
   
34.24   Notice
   
34.25   Administrative hearings
   
34.26   Ex parte disclosures
   
34.27   Post-hearing motions
   
34.28   Compliance bond
   
34.29   Waiver, suspension, or reduction of fines
   
34.30   Enforcement of hearing officer’s order
   
34.31   Fines payable to the County Treasurer
   
34.32   Review of final orders
   
34.33   Additional rules, regulations, and provisions
   
34.34   Regulations for the conduct of administrative hearings
 
   
34.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building and Property Maintenance Code, see
Chapter 154
   Subdivision Code, see
Chapter 155
   Zoning, see
Chapter 157
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a code hearing unit which shall be known as the
“County Code Hearing Unit” and authorized to conduct administrative
adjudication proceedings for the county, its departments, and its officers.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-1)
§ 34.02 JURISDICTION.
   The Code Hearing Unit is authorized to establish a system of administrative
adjudications for the enforcement of all provisions of the County Code, except
those preempted by state law or county ordinance.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-2)
§ 34.03 COMBINED CODE HEARING UNIT AUTHORIZED.
   The Code Hearing Unit may be combined with any adjacent unit of local
government to create a combined Code Hearing Unit for the efficient and just
adjudication of all ordinance violation cases for the various units of local
government.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-3)
§ 34.04 DIRECTOR AND HEARING OFFICERS; APPOINTMENT.
   The Chairperson of the County Board, with the advice and consent of the
County Board, shall appoint a Director and one or more Hearing Officers for the
purpose in this section. A Hearing Officer may not be a Code Enforcement
Officer or other law enforcement officer. The Director of the Code Hearing Unit
shall have the power to create and amend regulations for the fair and efficient
conduct of administrative hearings pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-4)
§ 34.05 ORDER AND OTHER PLEADING FORMS.
   The Director of the Code Hearing Unit shall have the authority to create and
require the use of preprinted order and related pleading forms in the hearing
process.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-5)
§ 34.06 HEARING OFFICERS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Hearing Officers shall have the following powers:
   (A)   All powers authorized by state statute (see e.g., 55 ILCS 5/5-41005 to
5/5-41060) including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Preside at administrative hearings called to determine whether a
code violation exists;
      (2)   Hear testimony and accept evidence from the Code Enforcement
Officer, the respondent, and all interested parties relevant to the existence
of a code violation;
      (3)   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all the
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      (4)   Issue and sign written findings and a decision and order stating
whether a code violation exists; and
      (5)   Impose penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and to
assess costs reasonably related to instituting the proceedings upon finding the
respondent liable for the charged violation. In no event, however, shall the
Hearing Officer have the authority to impose a penalty of incarceration.
   (B)   Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of issues;
   (C)   Administer oaths and affirmations;
   (D)   Rule upon motions, objections, and the admissibility of evidence;
   (E)   Subject to the provisions of this chapter, subpoena relevant witnesses
and the production of relevant documents, records, or other information; and
   (F)   Exercise all powers and duties necessary and proper to the
administration of fair hearings.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-6)
§ 34.07 HEARING OFFICERS; TRAINING REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to conducting an administrative adjudication proceeding, a Hearing
Officer may be required to complete a training program approved by the
Executive Committee, which may include the following:
   (A)   Instruction on the county regulations for the conduct of
administrative hearings;
   (B)   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations which the
Hearing Officer will adjudicate;
   (C)   Observation of the county or another unit of local government’s
administrative hearings; and
   (D)   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence and
issuing final orders.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-7)
§ 34.08 RULES AND REGULATIONS; AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   The rules and regulations promulgated for the conduct of administrative
hearings shall be published and kept on file in the office of the County Clerk
where they shall be available to the public for inspection and copying during
normal business hours.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-8)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 34.20 INITIATING ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEEDINGS.
   Code Enforcement Officers of the county may initiate administrative
adjudication proceedings with the Code Hearing Unit by forwarding a copy of a
notice of violation or a notice of hearing, which has been properly served, to
the Code Hearing Unit.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-9)
§ 34.21 SUBPOENAS.
   (A)   A Hearing Officer may issue a subpoena only if the Hearing Officer
determines that the testimony of the witnesses or the documents or items sought
by the subpoena are necessary to present evidence that is:
      (1)   Relevant to the case; and
      (2)   Relates to a contested issue in the case.
   (B)   A subpoena issued under this chapter shall identify:
      (1)   The person to whom it is directed;
      (2)   The documents or other items sought by the subpoena, if any;
      (3)   The date for appearance of the witnesses and the production of the
documents or other items described in the subpoena;
      (4)   The time for the appearance of the witnesses and the production of
the documents or other items described in the subpoena; and
      (5)   The place for the appearance of the witnesses and the production of
the documents or other items described in the subpoena.
   (C)   In no event shall the date identified for the appearance of the
witnesses or the production of the documents or other items be less than seven
days after the service of the subpoena.
(55 ILCS 5/5-41025(a)) (Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-10)
§ 34.22 ELECTION OF REMEDIES.
   In no case may the Code Hearing Unit conduct an administrative adjudication
proceeding for an alleged violation of the County Code where the requested
remedy is a punishment of imprisonment. Nothing in this chapter, however, shall
preclude the county from seeking the remedy of imprisonment in a court of law,
including imprisonment for failure to comply with the order of a Hearing
Officer.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-11)
§ 34.23 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, neither the authority
of the Code Hearing Unit to conduct administrative adjudication procedures nor
the initiation of such procedures under this chapter shall preclude the county
from seeking remedies for code violations through the use of any other
administrative procedures or court proceeding.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-12)
§ 34.24 NOTICE.
   Notice shall be as provided by state law. A copy of the violation notice and
report form shall be served on the respondent either personally or by first
class mail, postage prepaid, sent to the address of the respondent. If the name
of the respondents property owner cannot be ascertained or if service on the
respondent cannot be made by mail, service may be made on the respondent
property owner by posting, not less than 20 days before the hearing is
scheduled, a copy of the violation notice and report form in a prominent place
on the property where the violation is found.
(55 ILCS 5/5-41020(c)) (Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-13)
§ 34.25 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any administrative proceeding conducted by the Office of
Administrative Adjudication shall afford the parties an opportunity for a
hearing before an Administrative Law Officer.
   (B)   An attorney who appears on behalf of any person shall file with the
Hearing Officer a written appearance on a form provided by the Code Hearing
Unit for that purpose.
   (C)   In no event shall the case for the county be presented by an employee
of the Code Hearing Unit; provided, however, that documentary evidence,
including the notice of violation, which has been prepared by another
department or office of the county, may be presented at the hearing by the
Hearing Officer.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer may grant continuances only upon a finding of good
cause.
   (E)   All testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.
   (F)   The Hearing Officer may issue subpoenas to secure the attendance and
testimony of relevant witnesses and production of relevant documents. Issuance
of subpoenas shall be subject to the restrictions contained in this chapter.
   (G)   Subject to this section, the Hearing Officer may permit witnesses to
submit their testimony by affidavit or by telephone. A respondent may elect to
contest an alleged violation through an adjudication by mail rather than at an
administrative hearing. The respondent may use forms provided by the Code
Hearing Unit or simply write a letter with any evidence respondent may have to
contest the alleged violation. The respondent must sign respondent’s
correspondence.
   (H)   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply to the
conduct of the hearing. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted only if it
is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct
of their affairs.
   (I)   No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance
of the evidence; provided, however, that a violation notice, or a copy thereof,
issued and signed in accordance with 55 ILCS 5/5-41035 (or succeeding state
law) shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts contained
therein.
   (J)   Upon timely request of any party to a proceeding, any person, who the
Hearing Officer determines may reasonably be expected to provide testimony
which is material and which does not constitute a needless presentation of
cumulative evidence, shall be made available for cross-examination prior to a
final determination of liability.
   (K)   The record of all hearings before a Hearing Officer shall include:
      (1)   All documents presented at the hearing;
      (2)   A copy of the notice of the violation or notice of the hearing; and
      (3)   A copy of the findings and decisions of the Hearing Officer.
   (L)   The record of a hearing before a Hearing Officer may include a record
of the testimony presented at the hearing, which may be by means of a tape
recording, transcription, or other appropriate means.
      (1)   The Code Hearing Unit shall not provide recording services or
equipment.
      (2)   Any party desiring to record the testimony presented at the hearing
shall provide its own court reporter, transcriber, or recorder at that party’s
own expense regardless of the outcome of the hearing.
      (3)   The Hearing Officer may reasonably limit where the court reporter,
transcriber, or recorder may be placed in the hearing room. If the party or the
court reporter, transcriber, or recorder is unwilling to follow reasonable
limitations, then the Hearing Officer may remove court reporter, transcriber,
or recorder.
   (M)   Upon conclusion of a hearing, the Hearing Officer shall issue a final
determination of liability or no liability. Upon issuing a final determination
of liability the Hearing Officer may:
      (1)   Impose penalties and/or fines that are consistent with applicable
provisions of the County Code;
      (2)   Issue orders that are consistent with applicable provisions of the
County Code, including, but not limited to, orders to cure any continuing
violations of the County Code; and
      (3)   Assess costs reasonably related to instituting the hearing.
   (N)   In the issuance of a final determination of liability, a Hearing
Officer shall inform the respondent of respondent’s right to seek judicial
review of the final determination.
   (O)   (1)   If at the time set for a hearing the recipient of a notice of
violation or a notice of hearing, or the recipient’s attorney of record, fails
to appear, the Hearing Officer may find the recipient in default and proceed
with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of a code
violation and conclude with a finding, decision, and order. A copy of the order
of default shall be served in any manner permitted under this chapter.
      (2)   Within 21 calendar days from the issuance of an order of default, a
recipient of a notice of violation or a notice of hearing who has been found to
be in default may petition the Hearing Officer to set aside the determination
and set a new hearing date on the basis that the failure to appear at the
hearing was for good cause. If the petition is granted, the Hearing Officer
shall serve notice of the new hearing date upon the petitioner in any manner
permitted by this chapter no less than seven calendar days prior to the hearing
date.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-14)
§ 34.26 EX PARTE DISCLOSURES.
   The county hereby adopts and incorporates Canon 3(A)(6) of the Code of
Conduct for Administrative Law Officers. Therefore, Hearing Officers and other
personnel of the Code Hearing Unit are required to refrain from public comment
about a pending or impending proceeding before the Code Hearing Unit.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-15)
§ 34.27 POST-HEARING MOTIONS.
   There shall be no post-hearing motion practice before the Code Hearing Unit.
Appeals or review of final orders shall be governed by §
34.33.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-16)
§ 34.28 COMPLIANCE BOND.
   In order to ensure that code violations are remedied or fines are paid in a
timely manner, a Hearing Officer, upon issuing a final determination of
liability, may require a code violator to post with the county a compliance
bond or, as appropriate, to consent to the granting and recording of a lien
against titled property. Bonds and liens shall be approved by the County
Auditor and State’s Attorney’s Office as to form and amount. Whenever it is
necessary for the county to make repair or otherwise expend funds to a code
violation for which a bond was posted, or whenever fines or costs remain unpaid
after a code violator has exhausted or failed to exhaust judicial review
procedures, the Hearing Officer may, after giving the parties notice and an
opportunity to be heard, issue an order permitting the county to draw against
the bond in an appropriate amount, or to foreclose the lien. The Hearing
Officer shall order the bond or the titled property or proceeds from the titled
property, less the costs incurred by the county, returned to the code violator
upon proof of compliance with the applicable code provisions and the payment of
the applicable fines or costs.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-17)
§ 34.29 WAIVER, SUSPENSION, OR REDUCTION OF FINES.
   In instances where the County Code calls for the imposition of a mandatory
minimum fine upon a finding of liability by a Hearing Officer, a Hearing
Officer may not waive, suspend, or reduce the imposition of said mandatory
minimum fine.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-18)
§ 34.30 ENFORCEMENT OF HEARING OFFICER’S ORDER.
   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed by a Hearing Officer’s order and
any expenses incurred by the county to enforce the order including, but not
limited to, attorney’s fees, court costs, and costs related to property
demolition or foreclosure, that remain unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review of a Hearing Officer’s final determination
of liability for a code violation shall be a debt due and owing the county and,
as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-19)
§ 34.31 FINES PAYABLE TO THE COUNTY TREASURER.
   All fines and other monies paid to the county in accordance with this
chapter shall be remitted to the County Treasurer for deposit to the county’s
General Fund.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-21)
§ 34.32 REVIEW OF FINAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Upon becoming final, an order of a Hearing Officer shall be subject to
review in the Circuit Court of the county under the applicable avenue of
appeal.
   (B)   In general, appeals of final orders for violations of County Code
provisions are governed by the state’s Administrative Review Act (735 ILCS 5/3-
101 et seq.).
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-22)
§ 34.33 ADDITIONAL RULES, REGULATIONS, AND PROVISIONS.
   The County Board may adopt any other necessary and proper rules,
regulations, or provisions to carry into effect this chapter and the powers
granted and purposes stated in the County Code, 55 ILCS 5/5-41.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-23)
§ 34.34 REGULATIONS FOR THE CONDUCT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.
   (A)   General regulations.
      (1)   Creation and amendment of regulations. Until amended by the
Director of the Code Hearing Unit, the following shall be the regulations
applicable to administrative hearings.
      (2)   Scope of regulations. The regulations shall apply to the conduct of
all cases before the Code Hearing Unit.
      (3)   Supremacy of ordinances. Nothing in these regulations shall act to
override, restrict, or relax the procedural requirements or provisions of the
applicable provisions of the County Code. In the event of a conflict between
provisions of these regulations and the County Code, the County Code shall take
precedence.
      (4)   Effective date. These rules shall be in full force and effect
commencing May 30, 2002.
   (B)   Decorum. Administrative hearings shall be conducted with proper
decorum at all times. A Hearing Officer is expected to conduct the Officer’s
room, call, and proceedings in a timely, orderly, and professional manner. A
Hearing Officer may order the temporary removal of any individual who is
causing or contributing to a disruption of the call or proceedings.
   (C)   Record of proceedings. All proceedings may be recorded by audio tape
or by other approved means from start to finish. Respondents may, at their own
cost, provide a certified or licensed court reporter to record proceedings.
Video or audio recording not authorized by the Hearing Officer is prohibited.
   (D)   Cameras and other non-authorized audio-visual recording or
broadcasting devices. The County hereby adopts and incorporates the order of
the State Supreme Court In re Photographing, Broadcasting, and Televising
Proceedings in the Courts of Illinois (MR No. 2634). Pursuant to said order,
the photographing, broadcasting or televising of proceedings, other than those
in the appellate and supreme courts, is prohibited. Therefore, the
photographing, broadcasting, or televising of proceedings before a Hearing
Officer are prohibited.
   (E)   Introducing and opening remarks. A Hearing Officer should begin the
Officer’s call by introducing himself or herself to the litigants and other
attendants. Opening remarks should include informing the citizens as to the
nature and manner of the proceedings. Opening remarks may include information
about the order that cases will be called, the need to maintain proper decorum,
continuances, acceptable and unacceptable defenses, the availability of pre-
trial conferences and the range of potential fines.
   (F)   Management of the case call. Cases should be called in the following
order to achieve a timely and efficient management of the call:
      (1)   Pre-tried dismissals or settlements. Matters pre-tried prior to the
call which result in dismissal or settlement of the case shall be called and
placed into the record.
      (2)   Cases with attorneys. Cases, not pre-tried or settled, in which an
attorney has filed a written appearance shall be called. The Hearing Officer
should note in the Officer’s opening remarks that attorneys are not given
preferential treatment, but as officers of the court their presence may be
required before other judges in other courthouses.
      (3)   Regular call. Respondents seeking a full hearing shall be called
and the hearing commenced.
      (4)   Additional pre-tried dismissals or settlements. Matters pre-tried
during the call which result in dismissal or settlement of the case shall be
called and placed into the record.
      (5)   Motion to set-aside defaults. Respondents moving to set aside the
default order shall be called and a hearing on the motion commended. The
Hearing Officer shall first determine whether the motion is timely and whether
the Officer has jurisdiction to entertain the motion. If timely, the Hearing
Officer shall determine the merits of the motion. If the motion is granted, the
Hearing Officer should proceed with a hearing on the case.
      (6)   Defaults. Cases in which no respondent has appeared shall be
called. The Hearing Officer shall proceed with a hearing and enter an order on
the record.
   (G)   Discovery. Discovery in proceedings before the Code Hearing Unit shall
be governed by State Supreme Court Rule 201(h). Accordingly, no discovery
procedure shall be used in proceedings before the Code Hearing Unit except by
leave of a Hearing Officer.
   (H)   Subpoenas of witnesses and documents. Subpoenas in proceedings before
the Code Hearing Unit may only be issued by a Hearing Officer, unless otherwise
provided by ordinance particular to the violation in question.
   (I)   Rules of procedure and evidence. The formal and technical rules of
civil and criminal procedure and evidence shall not apply in the conduct of
administrative hearings. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted if it is
of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of
their affairs.
   (J)   Standard of proof. No violation may be established except upon proof
by a preponderance of the evidence.
   (K)   Representation and appearance. Parties may represent themselves or may
be represented by an attorney or authorized representative. Any and all counsel
or other persons appearing on behalf of a respondent in proceedings before a
Hearing Officer must file a written and signed appearance on the first occasion
before the Hearing Officer. Proceedings, as defined in this section, includes
any and all requests for a continuance, hearing, or hearing to vacate a default
judgement.
   (L)   Continuances. In general, continuances are not looked upon with favor
and shall only be granted where absolutely necessary for good cause shown. Lack
of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance.
   (M)   Defaults. If a respondent or respondent’s representative fails to
appear for a properly noticed hearing, the Hearing Officer may find the
respondent in default and proceed with the hearing.
   (N)   Motion to vacate a default. A respondent must file a written motion to
vacate the default order within 21 days after the issuance of the default
order. The movant must also be prepared to proceed with an immediate hearing if
the motion is granted. The Code Hearing Unit shall not have jurisdiction to
vacate a default order after 21 days from the issuance of the default order.
However, lack of personal jurisdiction may be raised at any time. ISSUANCE OF
THE DEFAULT ORDER, as used in this rule, shall be the date that the default
order was deposited in the U.S. mail.
   (O)   Dismissal for want of prosecution. If the Hearing Officer determines
that the petitioner has not afforded proper notice, then the case shall be
continued on the call to afford the petitioner an opportunity to resend notice.
If at the continued date the petitioner has not afforded proper notice, the
Hearing Officer shall dismiss the matter for want of prosecution. Said first
dismissal shall be without prejudice.
   (P)   Pre-hearing motions. Pre-hearing motions should be limited to motions
for leave to request discovery, subpoenas, continuances, or vacation of prior
default under divisions (H), (I), (L), and (N) above. In matters where
discovery is allowed by the Hearing Officer, discovery related motions may also
be allowed.
   (Q)   Pre-hearing settlements conferences. A party and the issuing County
Department, through its representative or legal counsel, may enter into a
settlement or stipulation of the issues or case and present the same to the
Hearing Officer when the matter is called.
   (R)   Hearings.
      (1)   Notice. A Hearing Officer will first determine whether the
petitioner has afforded proper notice to the respondent. If notice is improper,
the matter will be returned to the petitioner for re-notice or refiling.
      (2)   Presentation of the county’s case. The county bears the
responsibility for presenting its case. In general the case may be presented
via a county representative (including non-lawyers), live sworn testimony,
sworn signed prima facie documentation, or all of these.
      (3)   Respondent’s plea. In the event that the county has met its initial
burdens of notice and evidence of its claim or of a violation, the respondent
or the respondent’s representative shall be asked to enter a plea of “admit-
liable” or “deny-not liable”.
      (4)   Presentation of the respondent’s case and defense. The defenses
available to the respondent and the manner in which they may be presented are
governed by the ordinance particular to the subject matter or violation in
question. In general, evidence may be presented via live sworn testimony,
admissible documents, admissible exhibits, or other admissible evidence.
      (5)   Questions by the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer may ask
questions of the parties and witnesses, if necessary, to ensure the clarity and
completeness of the testimony and record.
      (6)   Constitutional challenges. The Code Hearing Unit is not empowered
to pass upon the constitutionality of a statute, ordinance, rule, regulation,
or other legislative or administrative action. (See Yellow Cab Co. v. City of
Chicago, 938 F. Supp. 500 (1996).) Parties may, however, make an objection,
without argument, to the constitutionality of a statute, ordinance, rule,
regulation, or other legislative or administrative action for the record.
      (7)   Closing arguments. Each party may be afforded an opportunity to
make closing arguments.
      (8)   Ruling. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall
make a determination on basis of the evidence presented at the hearing as to
whether a violation exists or does not exist. The determination shall be
recorded in the form of a written order. The manner and content of the order
are governed by the ordinance particular to the subject matter or violation in
question. The manner of serving a copy of the order on the parties is also
governed by the ordinance particular to the subject matter or violation in
question.
   (S)   Interpreters. The respondent is responsible for supplying respondent’s
own interpreter to provide assistance during the hearing process. Interpreters
shall be sworn-in and shall swear that the interpreter shall provide an
accurate translation of the proceedings.
   (T)   Reviewing or copying of public records. The public records and public
case files maintained by the Code Hearing Unit may be reviewed during normal
business hours (Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.) in the County
Board Office. No records or file items may be removed form the premises absent
court order. The Code Hearing Unit reserves the right to require that requests
be made in writing and that extensive or multiple requests be made by
appointment. Copies of public records and public files may be requested through
the Freedom of Information Act, being 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq. The Code Hearing
Unit reserves the right to require that requests be made in writing. Fees for
processing requests shall be as follows: $0.20 per side of a page and $1 per
certified order or other certified documents.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-25)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, having received notice and an opportunity for a hearing as
provided in this code, who knowingly fails to comply with an order issued by a
Hearing Officer under this chapter, including the issuance of a subpoena,
shall, if the order is not stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction prior to
its effective date, be guilty of contempt. Contempt shall be punishable by a
fine not less than $200 nor more than $500 for each offense. Each day that the
violation continues shall be considered a separate and distinct offense. In a
prosecution under this section, it shall not be a defense that a person came
into compliance with an order, sought judicial review of it, or made efforts to
comply with an order subsequent to its effective date.
(Prior Code, 1 TCC 6-20)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   [Reserved]
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   [Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   MASS GATHERINGS
      
93.   VEHICLE REGULATIONS
      
94.   WATER AND SEWERS
      
95.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
96.   HUMAN HABITATION
      
97.   GROUND WATER PROTECTION AREA
      
98.   POLLUTION CONTROL
      
99.   BODY ART
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large prohibited
   
90.03   Unattended animals to be securely fastened
   
90.04   Burial or throwing of animals into the streets; keeping
   
90.05   Restrictions on tethering a dog
   
90.06   Humane care of animals
   
90.07   Abandonment prohibited
   
90.08   Acts of cruelty to animals prohibited
   
90.09   Impoundment of victimized animals; owner’s appeal
   
90.10   Diseased and injured animals
   
90.11   Dead animals prohibited
   
90.12   Live animals for research prohibited
   
90.13   Reporting animal bites required
   
90.14   Harboring stray animal restricted
   
90.15   Liberation of owned animals prohibited
   
90.16   Liberation of impounded or captured animals prohibited
   
90.17   Interference with animal shelter personnel
   
90.18   Provoking animals prohibited
   
90.19   Removal of waste
   
90.20   Animal considered a nuisance
   
90.21   Inoculation of dogs and cats
   
90.22   Inoculation tags
   
90.23   Registration fees
   
90.24   Barn cat caretaker license required
   
90.25   Revocation of barn cat caretaker license
   
90.26   Confinement of animal which has bitten someone
   
90.27   Duties of owners of rabid or biting animals
   
90.28   Reimbursement to animal bite victims
   
90.29   Liability of animal owners
   
90.30   Confinement of female dog or cat in heat
   
90.31   Duties of driver of motor vehicle striking animal
   
90.32   Collar required
   
90.33   Attachment of registration tags
   
90.34   Confinement of dogs outside limited
   
90.35   Dangerous dogs determination
   
90.36   Dangerous dog; leash
   
90.37   Dangerous dog; appeal
   
90.38   Declaration of vicious dog
   
90.39   Vicious dogs - confinement, control, impoundment
   
90.40   Impoundment
   
90.41   Redemption by owner or owner’s delegate
   
90.42   Fees
   
90.43   Fines and fees paid into Animal Control Fund
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 through 5/27, as amended.
   ADMINISTRATOR. A veterinarian licensed by the State of Illinois and
appointed pursuant to this Act, or in the event a veterinarian cannot be found
and appointed pursuant to this Act, a non-veterinarian may serve as
Administrator under this Act. In the event the Administrator is not a
veterinarian, the administrator shall defer to the veterinarian regarding all
medical decisions.
   ANIMAL. Every non-human species of animal, both domestic and wild.
   ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY. Any facility approved by the Administrator for the
purpose of enforcing the Act and used as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs or other animals.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Persons appointed by the Administrator in such
number as authorized by the County Board to perform duties assigned by the
Administrator set forth in this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER MANAGER. Manager or Director of the animal shelter, animal
control, and rabies control.
   AT LARGE. Any animal when it is off the premises of its owner's real
property and not restrained by a competent person. However, if an animal under
the control of a city/county official or veterinarian escapes and runs loose,
it shall not be considered AT LARGE.
   BITE or BITING. The infliction of a break in the skin or a wound by the
teeth of an animal.
   CAT. All domestic members of the feline family felis catus.
   COMPETENT PERSON. A person 11 years of age or older, capable of physically
controlling the animal in question and to whose command the animal is obedient.
   CONFINE. Physical restraint of an animal by a fence, structure, chain, rope,
or other means of a sufficient strength or construction to restrain the animal
in question.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog when unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended
by its owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person
would believe poses a serious and imminent threat of serious physical injury or
death to a person or a companion animal.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Agriculture of the state.
   DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR. A veterinarian licensed by the State of Illinois,
appointed by the Administrator.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Agriculture of the state, or his
duly appointed representative.
   DOG. All domestic members of the canine family canis familiaris.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. The following are considered to be DOMESTIC ANIMALS:
      (1)   Dogs (not including hybrids of dogs);
      (2)   Cats (not including hybrids of cats);
      (3)   Domestic rodents (guinea pigs, hamsters, white rats, white mice);
      (4)   Farm animals (any member of the swine, ovine, caprine, bovine, or
equine families, poultry or rabbits);
      (5)   Non-life-threatening, non-poisonous reptiles or amphibians;
      (6)   Non-poisonous, non-life-threatening fish;
      (7)   All birds, except those protected as wild birds by state or federal
statutes; and
      (8)   Ferrets.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures which may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a vicious dog within  the
enclosure. Such enclosure shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the enclosure. Such enclosure must be approved by the
Administrator.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any non-domestic animal not native to the state.
   FERAL CAT. A cat that (a) is born in the wild or is the offspring of an
owned or feral cat and is not socialized, (b) is a formerly owned cat that has
been abandoned and is no longer socialized, or (c) lives on a farm. (For state
law reference, see 510 ILCS 5/2.11b)
   HAS BEEN BITTEN. Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced. The phrase
further includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   HEARING OFFICER. An individual designated by the county to hear and decide
complaints concerning the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   INOCULATIONS AGAINST RABIES. The injection of an anti-rabies vaccine
approved by the Department.
   KITTENS. All members of the family felis catus domesticus, male or female,
under the age of four months.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap, or chain which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient strength
to keep such dog or other animal under control.
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN. A veterinarian licensed by the state in which he
engages in the practice of veterinary medicine.
   MANAGER. The person appointed by the County Board to manage the county
animal shelter.
   OWNER.  
      (1)   Any person 17 years of age or older; or parent or guardian of any
person under the age of 17 years; or parent or guardian of an incapacitated
person having a right of property in an animal; or who acts as custodian, cares
for, keeps, feeds or knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any
premises occupied by such person; or a person who registers an inoculation
certificate for an animal with the county.
      (2)   OWNER does not include a feral cat caretaker participating in a
trap, spay/neuter, vaccinate for rabies, and return program.
   PEACE OFFICER. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 720 ILCS 5/2-13.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, society,
association, or other legal entity, any public or private institution, the
State of Illinois, municipal corporation or political subdivision of the state,
or any other business unit.
   PHYSICAL INJURY. The impairment of physical condition.
   POLICE ANIMAL. An animal owned or used by a law enforcement department or
agency in the course of the department or agency's work.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that is unsupervised and found running at
large with three or more other dogs.
   POULTRY. Domesticated birds raised for show, eggs, or meat.
   PUPPY. All members of the canine family canis familiaris, whether male or
female, under four months of age.
   REDEMPTION FEE. Costs incurred when impounding an animal, which include the
handling and processing of the animal's entry and exit into the animal shelter.
This fee shall not include boarding, medical or transportation costs incurred
by the shelter in keeping such animal.
   REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. A printed form prescribed by the department for
the purpose of recording pertinent information as required by the department
under this Act.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal that is not found on the property of its owner when it
is:
      (1)   Controlled by a line or leash not more than six feet in length,
when such line or leash is held by a competent person;
      (2)   Controlled by a leash of 50 feet or less during a training session
conducted by a competent person;
      (3)   Confined within a motor vehicle; or
      (4)   Confined in a cage or other animal carrier.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. A structure of sufficient height and construction that
does not allow contact between the animal confined and other animals or
persons.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. A physical injury that creates a substantial risk
of death or that causes death, serious or protracted disfigurement, protracted
impairment of health, impairment of the function of any bodily organ, or
plastic surgery.
   STERILIZED. The surgical spay of a female animal or castration of a male
animal, so as to render such animal incapable of producing.
   TAG. A serially numbered medallion approved by the department to be issued,
at a fee set by the County Board, as evidence of inoculation against rabies.
Also required for animals exempt by a veterinarian for being vaccinated against
rabies.
   TETHERING. To restrain a dog by tying the dog to any object or structure,
including, without limitation, a house, tree, fence, post, garage, shed, or
clothes line by any means, including, without limitation, a chain, rope, cord,
leash or running line. TETHERING shall not include using a leash to walk a dog.
   TOW CHAIN or LOG CHAIN. Any chain that is more than one-quarter of an inch
in width.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog that bites a person, attacks a person, or causes physical
injury, serious physical injury, or death; or any individual dog that has been
found to be a "dangerous dog" upon three separate occasions; or any individual
dog that has killed a companion animal while off the premises of its owner.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any living member of the animal kingdom (including exotic
animals) for which no rabies vaccine is approved, other than a domestic animal.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019; Res. HS-24-13, passed 4-24-2024)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The owner of any animal shall keep such animal confined or under
restraint at all times when it is off the premises of the owner's real
property, and shall not permit such animal to be at large. Dogs trained for law
enforcement under the control of a peace officer in the performance of duty
shall not be required to be confined or under restraint.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A), shall not apply to:
      (1)   Dogs being used in hunting, field trials, and under the control of
the owner or handler;
      (2)   Dog shows while on public lands set aside for those purposes;
      (3)   Blood hounds or other dogs used for tracking in conjunction with
police activities;
      (4)   Dogs of the Canine Corps of any police force, the state police, any
federal law enforcement agency, or the armed forces while being used to conduct
official business or being used for official purposes;
      (5)   Barn cats maintained under a barn cat caretaker license in
accordance with other provisions of this section; or
      (6)   A feral cat caretaker participating in a trap, spay/neuter,
vaccinate for rabies, and return program.
   (C)   A dog or cat found running at large contrary to the provisions of this
chapter a second or subsequent time must be spayed or neutered within 30 days
after being reclaimed unless already spayed or neutered. Failure to comply with
this section shall be a violation of law and shall result in the Administrator
or Deputy Administrator ordering the dog impounded and the dog's owner paying a
$50 fine, to be deposited into the Animal Control Fund. If the animal is
impounded a subsequent time and not sterilized, he/she must be sterilized at
the owner's expense before being released from animal control.
   (D)   Every animal running at large or stray animal within the county may be
impounded by the Animal Shelter Manager or delegate, the police, or private
citizen. Once the animal has been impounded at the animal shelter, it may be
released only after payment of any adjudicated fines owed for violation of this
chapter, any redemption/adoption fees that are set forth in this chapter, and
if the animal was not inoculated against rabies as required by this chapter
when impounded, any inoculation and registration cost incurred by the animal
shelter to inoculate and register the animal.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019; Res. HS-24-13, passed 4-24-2024) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.03 UNATTENDED ANIMALS TO BE SECURELY FASTENED.
   It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in
any street without having the animal securely fastened.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 BURIAL OR THROWING OF ANIMALS INTO THE STREETS; KEEPING.
   (A)   No person shall leave or throw into any place, street, or public
water, or offensively expose or bury anywhere within the county, the body, or
any part thereof, of any dead or fatally sick or injured animal.
   (B)   No person shall keep any dead animal, or any offensive meat, bird,
fowl, or fish in a place where the same may be dangerous to the life or
detrimental to the health of any person.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 RESTRICTIONS ON TETHERING A DOG.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to tether a dog outdoors unless the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   A tethered dog must have access at all times to water, adequate
shelter, and dry ground.
      (2)   If there are multiple dogs, each dog must be tethered separately
and each dog must have separate water and shelter.
      (3)   A dog must be tethered in such a manner as to prevent injury,
strangulation, or entanglement, and the tether must be at least ten feet long.
      (4)   The tether must be attached to the dog by a properly fitting collar
or harness with a rotating toggle attachment. Pinch, prong, or choke collars
shall not be used. The tether shall not wrap directly around the dog's neck.
      (5)   No dog may be tethered in the case of extreme weather conditions,
including when a heat advisory, a wind chill warning or tornado warning has
been issued by local, state, or national authority.
      (6)   No dog shall be tethered within 200 yards of a school.
      (7)   No person shall permit at any time a tethered dog to bark, whine,
howl, or make excess noises so as to cause a nuisance.
      (8)   No dog shall be tethered with a log chain or a tow chain.
      (9)   No dog shall be tethered in such a manner so as to allow it to
reach or remain on public property or public right-of-way, such as a sidewalk
or street.
   (B)   Failure to comply with this section is a violation for which the
Animal Control Administrator or delegate may impound the animal. Such animal
may be redeemed by the owner upon payment to the Animal Control Administrator
of the lawful fees accrued pursuant to this chapter, after showing an ability
to conform to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 HUMANE CARE OF ANIMALS.
   No owner shall fail to provide his/her animal with:
   (A)   Sufficient, nutritious food;
   (B)   Fresh, clean water at all times;
   (C)   A shelter which has four sides, a roof, floor, and bedding. The
shelter shall be of sufficient size to permit such animal to stand up and turn
around inside when fully grown and allow retention of body heat. The shelter
shall be placed to provide shade from the sun and protection from the weather;
and
   (D)   Regular and sufficient veterinary care to prevent suffering and
maintain health.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any animal within the county.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 ACTS OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   Unless justifiable in defense of person or property, no person shall:
   (A)   Kill, wound, or attempt to kill or wound any domestic animal;
   (B)   Put to death any domestic animal except by euthanasia under the
supervision of a licensed veterinarian of the state;
   (C)   Beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment, overload, overwork, or otherwise
abuse a domestic animal;
   (D)   Cause, instigate, permit, or attend any dogfight, cockfight,
bullfight, or other combat between animals and humans;
   (E)   Crop an animal's ears, an animal's tail, or perform similar surgeries
except as a licensed veterinarian of the state; or
   (F)   Allow any animal to remain unattended in a motor vehicle by a
competent person when the animal's life, health, or safety is threatened.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 IMPOUNDMENT OF VICTIMIZED ANIMALS; OWNER'S APPEAL.
   (A)   In the event that the Animal Shelter Manager or delegate finds a
domestic animal to be a victim of cruelty, neglect, or abandonment as defined
by §§
90.06 through
90.08, he/she shall have the right to remove or cause to have removed any such
animal to a safe place for care, or to euthanize such animal when necessary to
prevent further suffering, all at the owner's expense. Return to the owner may
be denied or withheld until the owner shall have made full payment for all
expenses incurred. Treatment of an animal by any method specified in this
section does not relieve the owner of liability for violations and for any
accrued charges.
   (B)   The owner of an animal that has been impounded may appeal, in writing,
the impoundment to the Administrator within seven days of impoundment. The
Administrator will appoint a hearing official and, after proper notice, a
hearing shall be held to determine if such animal was the victim of cruelty,
neglect, or abandonment. The hearing officer may find that the animal is a
victim of cruelty, neglect, or abandonment if:
      (1)   Such animal was abandoned;
      (2)   Such animal was not provided by the owner (or agent) with
sufficient water, proper food, shelter to provide protection from the weather,
or veterinary care to prevent suffering; or
      (3)   Such animal was a victim of an act cited in §
90.08.
   (C)   If the hearing officer finds that the animal is a victim of cruelty,
neglect, or abandonment, then he shall order appropriate remedies, including,
but not limited to, proper veterinary care, humane destruction of the animal,
or refusal to return such animal to the owner, and shall assess all costs to
the owner for enforcement of the appropriate remedy, and for impoundment and
boarding of the animal.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 DISEASED AND INJURED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No diseased or sickly horse, cow, hog, dog, cat, or other animal, nor
any that has been exposed to any disease that is contagious among such animals,
shall be brought into the county unless under veterinary care.
   (B)   Any animal, being in any street or public place within the county,
appearing, in the estimation of the Animal Shelter Manager or delegate, or any
inspector of the County Health Department, to be injured or diseased and past
recovery for any useful purpose, and not being attended and properly cared for
by the owner or some proper person to have charge thereof for the owner, and
not having been removed to some private premises or to some place designated by
such officer or inspector within one hour after being found or left in such
condition, may be deprived of life by such officer or as he may direct.
   (C)   No person, other than inspectors or officers of the County Health
Department or law enforcement officers, or persons authorized by contract or
otherwise, shall in any way interfere with the removal of such dead, sick, or
injured animal in such street or place. No person shall skin or wound such
animal in any street or public place, unless to terminate its life as herein
authorized; except that the owner or person having control of such animal may
terminate the life thereof in the presence and by the consent of a law
enforcement officer, or an inspector of the County Health Department or the
Animal Shelter Manager or delegate.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 DEAD ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Allow the body or any part thereof, of any dead animal to decompose
and putrefy by remaining on his property; or
      (2)   Skin, dismember, butcher, dress or exhibit any dead animals in view
of the public in residentially used areas of the county.
   (B)   The owner of an animal shall be responsible for the disposal of such
animal's remains on its death from whatever cause and regardless of the
location of such animal's remains.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 LIVE ANIMALS FOR RESEARCH PROHIBITED.
   No live animals in the possession of the animal shelter shall be released,
sold, or given to any institution or private firm or individual for the
purposes of medical or scientific research.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 REPORTING ANIMAL BITES REQUIRED.
   Persons having knowledge of someone being bitten by an animal must report
such information to the animal shelter or the Police Department within 24
hours.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 HARBORING STRAY ANIMAL RESTRICTED.
   No person shall harbor, keep, care for, feed, or allow remaining on their
property any stray domestic animal without notifying the animal shelter within
48 hours.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 LIBERATION OF OWNED ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall remove from restraint or release from confinement any animal
belonging to another person, unless in an emergency or with the consent of the
owner.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 LIBERATION OF IMPOUNDED OR CAPTURED ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to liberate or attempt to liberate any
animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter from a place of
confinement or from within a vehicle used for confinement and conveyance to the
animal shelter.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL SHELTER PERSONNEL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, impede, or interfere with
the Animal Shelter Manager or any of his delegates or the police in the
performance of their duties, or to prevent or attempt to prevent the Animal
Shelter Manager or any of his delegates or the police from capturing or
impounding any animal within the county.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 PROVOKING ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally provoke any animal so
as to create a nuisance to the neighborhood or cause a violation of any
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 REMOVAL OF WASTE.
   The owner of any animal shall promptly remove any deposit of such animal's
waste wherever it may exist in the county.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 ANIMAL CONSIDERED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person shall own, possess, or harbor a nuisance animal within the
county. An animal, other than a dog trained for law enforcement in the
performance of its duty, shall be considered a nuisance if such animal:
      (1)   Damages real or personal property other than the owner's;
      (2)   Causes unsanitary, dangerous, or unreasonably offensive conditions;
      (3)   Causes a disturbance by excessive barking, caterwauling, or other
noise-making. A public nuisance shall be rebuttably presumed when an animal
continuously emits noise which can be heard within a residence or other
occupied building for 20 or more consecutive minutes;
      (4)   Chases vehicles;
      (5)   Chases, molests, attacks, bites, interferes with or physically
intimidates any person while on or off the premises of the owner; or
      (6)   Chases, molests, attacks, bites or interferes with other animals
while off the premises of the owner.
   (B)   The Animal Shelter Manager or delegate, upon reasonable grounds, shall
impound any animal creating a nuisance by being in violation of division (A) of
this section and not restrained by a competent person. Failure to comply with
division (A) of this section shall be a violation of law for which, upon
conviction thereof, the owner of such animal shall be penalized $300 for the
first violation, $600 for the second violation, and $1,000 for the third and
each subsequent violation. This section requires the support of the complainant
for the issuance of a violation.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 INOCULATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   (1)   Every owner of a dog or cat four or more months of age shall
cause such dog or cat to be inoculated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian annually or at such intervals as hereafter may be promulgated by
the department. Evidence of such inoculation shall be entered upon a
certificate, the form of which shall be approved by the County Board, and the
certificate shall be signed by the licensed veterinarian administering the
vaccine.
      (2)   This division (A) does not apply to feral cats; however, if a feral
cat is presented to a licensed veterinarian for sterilization, the feral cat
shall be inoculated against rabies, unless the person presenting the feral cat
for care provides an inoculation certificate showing that the feral cat has
been inoculated against rabies. The cost of the inoculation shall be paid by
the person presenting the feral cat to a licensed veterinarian for care.
   (B)   The veterinarian administering the vaccine shall cause the certificate
of inoculation to be distributed as follows:
      (1)   Two copies shall be given to the owner at the time of inoculation;
      (2)   One copy shall be filed with the office of the Administrator, or
such place as the County Board shall designate, within 30 days after the date
of inoculation; and
      (3)   One copy shall be retained by the veterinarian administering the
inoculation for a period of five years, or such period as set by the department
or the County Board.
   (C)   The type and brand of rabies vaccine used shall be licensed by the
U.S. Department of Agriculture and approved by the department.
   (D)   Every owner of a dog or cat shall comply with the provisions of
sections §§
90.21 through
90.23. Any person who violates these sections shall pay a penalty of $25 for
the first violation, $50 for the second violation occurring within a 12-month
period, and $200 for the third and each successive violation within a 12-month
period. Each day a person fails to comply constitutes a separate offense.
   (E)   If an animal is not inoculated and registered, said animal shall be
impounded by the Animal Shelter Manager or his/her delegate and may be redeemed
or disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019; Res. HS-24-13, passed 4-24-2024)  Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.22 INOCULATION TAGS.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of a dog or cat shall, within ten days after such dog
or cat has been inoculated against rabies, procure an inoculation tag from the
county. The cost of the tag shall be determined and set by the County Board.
The owner of a dog or cat shall cause the inoculation tag to be attached to a
collar or harness to be worn by the animal whenever the animal is not confined
in a secure enclosure. Valid rabies inoculation tags and certificates from
other counties shall be honored while the animal is in transit or while the dog
or cat is being kept in the county for 30 days or less.
      (2)   This division (A) does not apply to feral cats.
   (B)   If an animal is not registered, such dog or cat may be impounded by
the Animal Shelter Manager or delegate and may be redeemed or disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to barn cats maintained
under a barn cat caretaker license in accordance with other provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019; Res. HS-24-13, passed 4-24-2024) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.23 REGISTRATION FEES.
   The owner of animals in the county shall be charged the following
registration fee(s):
   (A)   For an annual registration, $16 for each animal which is neutered or
spayed;
   (B)   For a three-year registration, $42 for each animal which is neutered
or spayed;
   (C)   For an annual registration, $33 for each animal which is not neutered
or spayed;
   (D)   For a three-year registration, $75 for each animal which is not
neutered or spayed;
   (E)   Replacement of a lost registration tag is $3;
   (F)   Late fees. Five dollars for each animal 30-59 days overdue on
vaccination or registration. Ten dollars for each animal 60 days or more
overdue on vaccination or registration; and
   (G)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to feral cats.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019; Res. HS-22-24, passed 10-26-2022; Res. HS-24-
13, passed 4-24-2024)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 BARN CAT CARETAKER LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Barn cat caretakers may obtain an annual license from the county by no
later than January 31 of each year. Licensees shall pay an annual renewal fee
of $10.
   (B)   An applicant for and holder of a barn cat caretaker license shall
conform to the following requirements:
      (1)   All cats over four months of age must receive an inoculation
against rabies;
      (2)   All cats must be spayed or neutered;
      (3)   All cats must be provided with a continuous supply of fresh water,
sufficient food to maintain acceptable body weight, shelter and protection from
the weather, and sufficient veterinary care to prevent suffering;
      (4)   The applicant shall not have been found guilty of more than three
violations of this chapter within the previous three years from the date of
application; and
      (5)   The applicant shall pay the county a fee of $10.
   (C)   Obtaining a barn cat caretaker license shall exempt such licensee from
payment of county registration fees for each cat owned by him.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 REVOCATION OF BARN CAT CARETAKER LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon conviction of a second violation of the requirements of this
chapter, the Animal Shelter Manager or delegate may revoke the barn cat
caretaker license for a period of not less than three months nor more than five
years, the length of the revocation period to be determined by the number and
severity of the violations. After expiration of the revocation period, the
license shall not be automatically reinstated. The former licensee must reapply
for the license and show an ability to conform to the existing ordinances
before he may be issued a multiple pet license.
   (B)   Upon revocation of the license, the Administrator or Deputy
Administrator may order the barn cats impounded and the owner shall relinquish
ownership of his barn cats to the animal shelter, unless he otherwise comes
into compliance with the requirements this chapter.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 CONFINEMENT OF ANIMAL WHICH HAS BITTEN SOMEONE.
   (A)   When the Administrator receives information that any person has been
bitten by a dog or other animal, the Administrator, or his/her authorized
representative, shall have such dog or other animal confined under the
observation of a licensed veterinarian for a period of ten days. Such
veterinarian shall report the clinical condition of the dog or other animal
immediately, with confirmation in writing to the Administrator within 24 hours
after the dog or other animal is presented for examination, giving the owner's
name, address, the date of confinement, the breed, description, age and sex of
such dog or other animal, on appropriate forms approved by the department. The
Administrator shall notify the attending physician or responsible health
agency. At the end of the confinement period, the veterinarian shall submit a
written report to the Administrator advising him of the final disposition of
such dog or other animal on appropriate forms approved by the department. Dogs
or other animals that are not currently inoculated against rabies within the
time prescribed by law must be confined at a veterinarian office or county
animal control.
   (B)   When evidence is presented that such dog or other animal was
inoculated against rabies within the time prescribed by law, it may be confined
in the house of its owner, or in a manner which will prohibit it from biting
any person for a period of ten days, if the Administrator, adjudges such
confinement satisfactory. At the end of the confinement period, such dog or
other animal shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian.
   (C)   When such dog or other animal has been examined by a licensed
veterinarian, at the end of the confinement period and released from
confinement, said animal shall be microchipped at the owner's expense at the
time of examination. The owner shall notify the Administrator of the microchip
number within 72 hours.
   (D)   Every wild animal which has bitten a person shall be humanely
destroyed immediately and a necropsy performed.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 DUTIES OF OWNERS OF RABID OR BITING ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner of any dog or other animal which exhibits symptoms of rabies
and any dog or other animal in direct contact with such dog or other animal,
whether or not such dog or other animal has been vaccinated, shall immediately
notify the Administrator, and shall promptly confine such dog or other animal,
or have it confined, under suitable observation, for a period of at least ten
days, unless officially authorized by the Administrator, in writing, to release
it sooner.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person having knowledge that any person has
been bitten by a dog or other animal to refuse to notify the Administrator
immediately. It is unlawful for the owner of such dog or other animal to
euthanize, sell, give away, or otherwise dispose of any such dog or other
animal known to have bitten a person, until it is released by the
Administrator, or his authorized representative.
   (C)   It is unlawful for the owner of such dog or other animal to refuse or
fail to comply with the written or printed instructions made by the
Administrator, or his authorized representative. If such instructions cannot be
delivered in person, they shall be mailed to the owner of such dog or other
animal by regular mail, postage prepaid. The affidavit or testimony of the
Administrator, or his authorized representative, delivering or mailing such
instructions is prima facie evidence that the owner of such dog or other animal
was notified of his responsibilities.
   (D)   Any expense incurred in the handling of any dog or other animal under
this section shall be borne by the owner.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the word IMMEDIATELY means by
telephone, in person, or by some other means, but does not include the use of
the mail.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 REIMBURSEMENT TO ANIMAL BITE VICTIMS.
   The county is not obligated to pay to any person or resident of the county
from the Animal Control Fund any amount for the purchase of human rabies
antiserum, the purchase of human vaccine, any costs for the administration of
the serum or vaccine, or any amount for medical care which may have been
provided to human bite victims.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 LIABILITY OF ANIMAL OWNERS.
   Owners of animals shall be liable for any damage done by their animals to
persons, other domestic animals, or other person's property.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.30 CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE DOG OR CAT IN HEAT.
   The owner of any female dog or cat in heat shall confine such animal in a
building or secure enclosure. The failure to do so is a violation of law and
will allow the Manager of the Animal Shelter or delegate to impound such animal
and to hold such animal until redeemed/adopted pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31 DUTIES OF DRIVER OF MOTOR VEHICLE STRIKING ANIMAL.
   Any person whose motor vehicle strikes a dog or cat within the county shall
promptly report such occurrence to the animal shelter or Police Department with
a description of the animal struck, condition of the animal, and the location
of the striking.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 COLLAR REQUIRED.
   No person shall own, possess, keep, maintain, or harbor any dog or cat over
four months of age within the county without providing such dog or cat with a
collar to be worn when said animal is outside a secure enclosure. Collars for
dogs shall be of sufficient strength to control and restrain the animal without
injury to the animal. Animals restrained by rope or chains must have collars.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 ATTACHMENT OF REGISTRATION TAGS.
   The registration tag, issued pursuant to this chapter, requiring inoculation
by a licensed veterinarian, shall be attached to the collar required by §
90.32.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.34 CONFINEMENT OF DOGS OUTSIDE LIMITED.
   (A)   No person shall place a doghouse, dog kennel, or other dog housing
outside except in the rear yard.
   (B)   No person shall place a doghouse, dog kennel, or other dog housing or
restraint in the rear yard unless such structure or restraint is at least ten
feet from all property lines that have adjoining property. A dog trained for
law enforcement while in the ownership of a law enforcement officer shall be
exempt from the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to barn cats maintained
under a barn cat caretaker license in accordance with other provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.35 DANGEROUS DOGS DETERMINATION.
   (A)   After a thorough investigation, including: sending notifications to
the owner of the alleged infractions within ten business days of the
Administrator or Director becoming aware of the alleged infractions, the fact
of the initiation of an investigation, and affording the owner an opportunity
to meet with the Administrator or Director prior to the making of a
determination; gathering of any medical or veterinary evidence; interviewing
witnesses; and making a detailed written report, an animal control officer,
Deputy Administrator, or law enforcement agent may ask the Administrator, or
his or her designee, or the Director, to deem a dog to be "dangerous." No dog
shall be deemed a "dangerous dog" unless shown to be a dangerous dog by a
preponderance of the evidence. The owner shall be delivered immediate
notification of the determination in person or by registered or certified mail
that includes a complete description of the appeal process.
   (B)   A dog shall not be declared dangerous if the Administrator, or his or
her designee, or the Director determines the conduct of the dog was justified
because:
      (1)   The threat was sustained by a person who at the time was committing
a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog or was committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon the premises or property occupied by the
owner of the animal;
      (2)   The threatened person was abusing, assaulting, or physically
threatening the dog or its offspring;
      (3)   The injured, threatened, or killed companion animal was attacking
or threatening to attack the dog or its offspring; or
      (4)   The dog was responding to pain or injury or was protecting itself,
its owner, custodian, or a member of its household, kennel, or offspring.
   (C)   If deemed dangerous, the Administrator, or his or her designee, or the
Director shall order:
      (1)   The dog's owner to pay a $50 public safety fee, which shall be
deposited into the Animal Control Fund, and a fine of not less than $250 nor
more than $1,000;
      (2)   The dog to be microchipped and spayed or neutered within 14 days at
the owner's expense, if not already; and
      (3)   One or more of the following as deemed appropriate under the
circumstances and necessary for the protection of the public:
         (a)   Evaluation of the dog by a certified applied behaviorist, a
board certified veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert in the
field and completion of training or other treatment as deemed appropriate by
the expert. The owner of the dog shall be responsible for all costs associated
with evaluations and training ordered under this division; or
         (b)   The dog to be under physical control by an adult 18 years of age
or older whenever the animal is off of the premises of its owner.
   (D)   The Administrator may order a dangerous dog to be muzzled whenever it
is off of the premises of its owner in a manner that will prevent it from
biting any person or animal, but that shall not injure the dog or interfere
with its vision or respiration.
   (E)   The Administrator may order the owner of a dangerous dog to maintain
his animal under restraint and not allow his animal to be outdoors unless
contained inside a physical fence that restricts the dog's access to the public
way or leashed and under the control of its owner or another responsible
person. The Administrator may order that the dog be prohibited from or under
specified restrictions at dog parks.
   (F)   The Administrator may order the owner to display in a prominent place
of the premises where a dangerous dog resides a clearly visible sign of
appropriate size declaring that a dangerous dog resides at that location. The
Administrator shall approve the design of the sign and may require additional
signs located at other points of entry.
   (G)   The owner or custodian of the dog shall notify the animal shelter or
the Administrator immediately in the event the dog is at large or has committed
an attack on any person or animal or has died.
   (H)   No owner or keeper of a dangerous dog shall sell or give away the dog
without notifying the Administrator.
   (I)   Whenever an owner of a dangerous dog relocates, he shall notify the
Administrator. This includes owners of dogs declared dangerous in the county
who are relocating to another county and owners of dogs declared dangerous in
other counties who are relocating to Tazewell County.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36 DANGEROUS DOG; LEASH.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or recklessly permit any
dangerous dog to leave the premises of its owner when not under control by
leash.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 DANGEROUS DOG; APPEAL.
   (A)   The owner of a dog found to be a dangerous dog pursuant to this
chapter by the Administrator may file a complaint against the Administrator in
the circuit court within 35 days of receipt of notification of the
determination, for a de novo hearing on the determination. The proceeding shall
be conducted as a civil hearing pursuant to the Illinois Rules of Evidence and
the Code of Civil Procedures, including the discovery provisions. After hearing
both parties' evidence, the court may make a determination that the dog is a
dangerous dog if the Administrator meets his or her burden of proof of a
preponderance of the evidence. The final order of the circuit court may be
appealed pursuant to the civil appeals provisions of the Illinois Supreme Court
Rules.
   (B)   The owner of a dog found to be a dangerous dog pursuant to this
chapter by the Director may, within 14 days of receipt of notification of the
determination, request an administrative hearing to appeal the determination.
The administrative hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the Department of
Agriculture's rules applicable to formal administrative proceedings, 8 Ill.
Adm. Code Part 1, Subparts A and B. An owner desiring a hearing shall make his
or her request for a hearing to the State Department of Agriculture. The final
administrative decision of the department may be reviewed judicially by the
circuit court of the county wherein the person resides, or in the case of a
corporation, the county where its registered office is located. If the
plaintiff in a review proceeding is not a resident of Illinois, the venue shall
be in Sangamon County. The Administrator review law and all amendments and
modifications thereof, and the rules adopted thereto, apply to and govern all
proceedings for the judicial review of final administrative decisions of the
Department hereunder.
   (C)   Until the order has been reviewed and at all times during the appeal
process, the owner shall comply with the requirements set forth by the
Administrator, the court, or the Director.
   (D)   At any time after a final order has been entered, the owner may
petition the circuit court to reverse the designation of dangerous dog.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38 DECLARATION OF VICIOUS DOG.
   (A)   In order to have a dog deemed "vicious" as defined in §
90.01, the Administrator, Deputy Administrator, or law enforcement officer must
give notice of the infraction that is the basis of the investigation to the
owner, conduct a thorough investigation, interview any witnesses, including the
owner, gather any existing medical records, veterinary medical records or
behavioral evidence, and make a detailed report recommending a finding that the
dog is a vicious dog and give the report to the State's Attorney's Office and
the owner.
   (B)   The Administrator, State's Attorney, Director or any citizen of the
county may file a complaint in the circuit court in the name of the People of
the State of Illinois to deem a dog to be a vicious dog. Testimony of a
certified applied behaviorist, a board certified veterinary behaviorist, or
another recognized expert may be relevant to the court's determination of
whether the dog's behavior was justified. The petitioner must prove the dog is
a vicious dog by clear and convincing evidence. The Administrator shall
determine where the animal shall be confined during the pendency of the case.
   (C)   A dog may not be declared vicious if the court determines the conduct
of the dog was justified because:
      (1)   The threat, injury, or death was sustained by a person who at the
time was committing a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog,
or was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises or
property owned or occupied by the owner of the animal;
      (2)   The injured, threatened, or killed person was abusing, assaulting,
or physically threatening the dog or its offspring, or has in the past abused,
assaulted, or physically threatened the dog or its offspring; or
      (3)   The dog was responding to pain or injury, or was protecting itself,
its owner, custodian, or member of its household, kennel, or offspring.
   (D)   No dog shall be deemed vicious if it is a professionally trained dog
for law enforcement or guard duties, provided the attack or injury to a person
occurs while the dog is performing duties as expected.
   (E)   Vicious dogs shall not be classified in a manner that is specific as
to breed.
   (F)   If the burden of proof has been met, the court shall deem the dog to
be a vicious dog.
   (G)   If a dog is found to be a vicious dog, the owner shall pay a $100
public safety fee, which shall be deposited into the Pet Population Control
Fund, and a fine of not more than $1,000; the dog shall be microchipped and
spayed or neutered within ten days of the finding at the expense of its owner,
if not already; and the dog shall be subject to enclosure.
   (H)   If an owner fails to comply with the requirements of division (G), the
Animal Control Manager shall impound the dog and the owner shall pay a fine of
not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, plus impoundment fees, to the animal
control facility.
   (I)   The judge has the discretion to order a vicious dog be euthanized.
   (J)   A dog found to be a vicious dog shall not be released to the owner
until the Administrator, an animal control officer, or the Director approves
the enclosure.
   (K)   No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away the dog
without approval from the Administrator or court.
   (L)   Whenever an owner of a vicious dog relocates, he or she shall notify
both the Administrator of county animal control where he or she has relocated
and the Administrator of county animal control where he or she formerly
resided.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.39 VICIOUS DOGS - CONFINEMENT, CONTROL, IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog which
has been found to be a vicious dog unless such dog is at all times kept in an
enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed out of the
enclosure are:
      (1)   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary
care for the dog; or
      (2)   In the case of an emergency or natural disaster where the dog's
life is threatened; or
      (3)   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction; and
      (4)   Provided that the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a
leash not exceeding six feet in length, and shall be under the direct control
and supervision of the owner or keeper of the dog or muzzled in its residence.
   (B)   Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is not
confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the Administrator, animal
control officer, or the law enforcement authority having jurisdiction in such
area.
   (C)   If the owner of the dog has not appealed the impoundment order to the
circuit court in the county in which the animal was impounded within 15 working
days, the dog may be humanely euthanized.
   (D)   Upon filing a notice of appeal within 15 working days, the order of
euthanasia shall be automatically stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. The
owner shall bear the burden of timely notification to animal control in
writing, and all costs of the stay of the euthanasia order shall be borne by
the owner. A dog found to be a vicious dog shall not be released to the owner
until the Administrator, an animal control officer, or the Director approves
the enclosure as defined in this division.
   (E)   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard or police-owned dogs are exempt from
this section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is
performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under this division,
each such dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with §
90.21 (Section 8 of the Illinois Animal Control Act). It shall be the duty of
the owner of such exempted dog to notify the Administrator of changes of
address. In the case of a sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep the
Administrator advised of the location where such dog will be stationed. The
Administrator shall provide Police and Fire Departments with a categorized list
of such exempted dogs, and shall promptly notify such departments of any
address changes reported to him.
   (F)   If the animal control agency has custody of the dog, the agency may
file a petition with the court requesting that the owner be ordered to post
security. The security must be in an amount sufficient to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses expected to be incurred by the animal control agency or
animal shelter in caring for and providing for the dog pending the
determination. Reasonable expenses include, but are not limited to, estimated
medical care and boarding of the animal for 30 days. If security has been
posted in accordance with this section, the animal control agency may draw from
the security the actual costs incurred by the agency in caring for the dog.
   (G)   Upon receipt of a petition, the court must set a hearing on the
petition, to be conducted within five business days after the petition is
filed. The petitioner must serve a true copy of the petition upon the
defendant.
   (H)   If the court orders the posting of security, the security must be
posted with the Clerk of the Court within five business days after the hearing,
if the person ordered to post security does not do so, the dog is forfeited by
operation of law and the animal control agency must dispose of the animal
through adoption or humane euthanization.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.40 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Every animal running at large or stray animal within the county may be
impounded by the Animal Shelter Manager or delegate, the police, or private
citizen. Once the animal has been impounded at the animal shelter, it may be
released only after payment of any adjudicated fines owed for violation of this
chapter, any redemption/adoption fees that are set forth in this chapter, and
if the animal was not inoculated against rabies as required by this chapter
when impounded, any inoculation and registration cost incurred by the animal
shelter to inoculate and register the animal.
   (B)   Pursuant to the Illinois Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/10, when dogs
or cats are apprehended and impounded, they must be scanned for the presence of
a microchip. If no microchip is found, a microchip shall be implanted prior to
redemption and said implantation of the microchip shall be at the owner's
expense.
   (C)   The Administrator shall give notice of not less than seven business
days to the owner, if known, prior to disposal of the animal. Such notice shall
be mailed to the last known address of the owner. An affidavit or testimony of
the Administrator or his deputy or agent who mails such notice shall be prima
facie evidence of the receipt of such notice by the owner of such dog or cat.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 REDEMPTION BY OWNER OR OWNER'S DELEGATE.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice from the Administrator, it shall be the duty of
the owner or delegate of such impounded dog or cat to immediately redeem same,
unless such dog or cat has been impounded for:
      (1)   Biting some person;
      (2)   Being afflicted with rabies;
      (3)   Being suspected of being afflicted with rabies; or
      (4)   Being a dangerous animal pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   If the owner of the impounded dog(s) or cat(s) desires to make
redemption thereof, he shall redeem his animals within 72 hours of the date and
time of notice, excepting weekends (Saturday and Sunday) and holidays, by
presenting to the Animal Shelter Manager or delegate the following:
      (1)   Proof of current rabies inoculation and registration, or payment
for the inoculation and registration costs incurred by the animal shelter to
inoculate and register the dog(s) or cat(s);
      (2)   Payment for all lawful fees accrued pursuant to this chapter for
impounding such dog(s) or cat(s), including redemption, boarding, inoculation,
registration, and medical fees accrued;
      (3)   Payment for implantation of a microchip, if applicable; and
      (4)   Paying all adjudicated fines and fees owed for violation of this
code.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42 FEES.
   (A)   The redemption fee for any animal impounded at the animal shelter,
except dogs and cats, shall be $12 per day.
   (B)   In addition to the redemption fees to be charged for every animal
impounded, except dogs and cats, the owner or redeemer of such animal shall pay
the animal shelter for the cost of transporting it, boarding for the entire
period that it was impounded, and all medical charges which have accrued as a
result of medical treatment, and any adjudicated fines and fees owed for
violation of this chapter. These redemption, boarding, and medical costs shall
be paid even if the animal is not redeemed by the owner.
   (C)   The public safety fee for any dog impounded at the animal shelter
shall be $50. The public safety fee for any cat impounded at the animal shelter
shall be $25.
   (D)   In addition to the public safety fee a redemption fee for any
registered dog or cat impounded at the animal shelter shall be $30. The
redemption fee for any unregistered dog or cat impounded at the animal shelter
shall be $45. If the dog or cat was impounded within the corporate limits of a
municipality with a current contract with Tazewell County Animal Control, the
redemption fee for any registered dog or cat shall be $10. The redemption fee
for any unregistered dog or cat shall be $15.
   (E)   In addition to the redemption fees to be charged for every dog or cat
impounded, the owner or redeemer of such dog or cat shall pay the animal
shelter for cost of transporting it, a boarding fee of $12 per day for the
entire period that it was impounded, with the exceptions of weekends and
holidays, and all medical charges which have accrued as a result of medical
treatment. These redemption, boarding, and medical costs shall be paid, even if
the animal is not redeemed by the owner.
   (F)   In addition to the redemption fees to be charged for every dog or cat
impounded, the cost of implantation of a microchip, if none is found at the
time of impoundment, shall be paid by the owner. The cost of implantation of a
microchip is $36.
   (G)   The redemption fee for a dog or cat that has bitten a person is $180.
   (H)   Owners of animals impounded during non-business hours shall be subject
to an emergency impoundment fee of $25.
   (I)   A transportation fee of $25 shall be paid for animals picked up at the
request of the owner.
   (J)   A euthanasia fee of $25 shall be paid for animals euthanized at the
request of the owner.
   (K)   A euthanasia fee of $50 shall be paid for animals euthanized at the
request of the owner, if the animal has bitten within ten days of the request.
   (L)   The Administrator may require a dog or cat to be vaccinated against
rabies by a licensed veterinarian and registered at the owner's expense before
redemption. The required rabies vaccination fee shall be $45.
   (M)   Owners of animals displaced by circumstances out of their control
shall be required to provide proof of rabies inoculation. Animals impounded by
County Animal Control due to these circumstances shail be vaccinated against
rabies, registered, and microchipped before being released to the owner. The
owner shall pay $15 for the required rabies vaccination, the appropriate
registration fee, and $5 for the implantation of the required microchip.
   (N)   Owners surrendering animals to the shelter shall be subject to pay a
$10 relinquishment fee.
   (O)   The adoption fee for each dog shall be $80, and $50 if the dog comes
to the shelter already sterilized. The adoption fee for each cat over six
months of age shall be $40, $60 for any kitten under six months of age, and $20
if the cat comes to the shelter already sterilized.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43 FINES AND FEES PAID INTO ANIMAL CONTROL FUND.
   All fines, forfeitures, penalties, and fees collected as a result of the
enforcement of this chapter shall be paid into the Animal Control Fund.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than
$25 and not more than $500 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
to be committed for each day during upon which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. E-19-97, passed 5-29-2019)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Open Burning
   
91.01   Authority to prohibit burning
   
91.02   Declaration of emergency conditions
Burning Restrictions
   
91.15   Salvage operation
   
91.16   No open burning
   
91.17   Enforcement
Alarm Systems
   
91.30   Definitions
   
91.31   Offense
   
91.32   Exceptions
   
91.33   Notification
   
91.34   Investigation
Nuisances
   
91.45   Definitions
   
91.46   Public nuisance litter
   
91.47   Weeds, plants and grass over certain height declared nuisance;
prohibited
   
91.48   Vacated premises
   
91.49   Garbage and refuse vehicles
   
91.50   Other nuisances
   
91.51   Notice of violation
Garbage
   
91.65   Introduction
   
91.66   Host community agreement requirements
 
   
91.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.01 AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT BURNING.
   The County Board may ban open burning through resolution at any scheduled
meeting.
(Prior Code, 4 TCC 3-1)
§ 91.02 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.
   At the request of the Fire Chief’s Association, a temporary ban on open
burning may be declared by the County Board Chairperson and shall remain in
effect until rescinded by the County Board Chairperson or the County Board.
(Prior Code, 4 TCC 3-2)
BURNING RESTRICTIONS
§ 91.15 SALVAGE OPERATION.
   No person shall conduct a salvage operation by burning.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 2-1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 NO OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall cause, suffer, allow, or permit open burning of refuse
composed of animal, fruit, or vegetable matter, garbage, offal, or any other
nauseous matter of organic or inorganic matter at any time except within a
furnace or incinerator, and then not in a manner which permits the escape or
discharge of noxious odors.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 2-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcing officer under this subchapter shall be the Director of Public
Health.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 2-3)
ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 91.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical or electrical device that is arranged,
designed, or used to signal the occurrence in the city of a burglary, robbery,
or other criminal offense, fire, or medical emergency requiring urgent
attention, and to which police, fire, or emergency medical personnel are
expected to respond. ALARM SYSTEMS include those through which public safety
personnel are notified directly of such signals through automatic devices or
are notified indirectly by way of third persons or electronic or mechanical
systems monitoring the alarm systems and reporting such signals to the Fire or
Police Department. ALARM SYSTEMS also include those designed to register a
signal which is so audible, visible, or in other ways perceptible outside a
protected building structure or facility as to notify persons in the
neighborhood beyond the zoning lot where the signal is located who in turn may
notify the Police or Fire Department of the signal. ALARM SYSTEMS do not
include those affixed to automobiles. Furthermore, ALARM SYSTEMS do not include
auxiliary devices installed by telephone companies to protect telephone
equipment or systems which might be damaged or disrupted by the use of an alarm
system. Alarms in separate structures are to be counted as separate systems
even though owned by same person or entity.
   ALARM USER. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or entity who or
which purchases, leases, contracts for, obtains, or uses an alarm system or
subscribes to an alarm system.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm system signal eliciting a response by the Police or
Fire Department when a situation requiring a response by the Police or Fire
Department does not in fact exist. FALSE ALARM does not include an alarm signal
caused by violent conditions of nature or other extraordinary circumstances not
reasonably subject to control by the alarm business operator or alarm user.
Alarms resulting from the following conditions are not considered to be FALSE
ALARMS:
      (1)   Criminal activity, unauthorized entry, or other unauthorized
actions by a party other than the alarm user or someone responsible for the
alarm system;
      (2)   Earthquake causing structural damage to the protected premises;
      (3)   High winds sufficient to activate motion detection system or
causing physical damage to the protected premises;
      (4)   Flooding of the protected premises due to overflow of natural
drainage;
      (5)   Lightning bolt causing physical damage to the protected premises;
      (6)   Telephone line malfunction verified in writing to the city by at
least a first line telephone company supervisor;
      (7)   Electrical service interruption verified in writing to the
Department by local power company; and
      (8)   Communication to the Police or Fire Department before a unit is
dispatched to investigate, clearly indicating that the alarm is resulting from
authorized entry, authorized system test, or other non- criminal cause.
(Prior Code, 4 TCC 4-1)
§ 91.31 OFFENSE.
   Except as otherwise set forth in this chapter, an alarm user shall be
subject to a fine for each false alarm in excess of two false alarms per system
per calendar year. The fact that an alarm user subscribes to an alarm system
shall be no defense.
(Prior Code, 4 TCC 4-2)
§ 91.32 EXCEPTIONS.
   Alarm users installing a new system, making substantial modifications to an
existing system, or causing, permitting, or allowing the installation of a new
system or modification of an existing system shall be entitled to a grace
period during which alarms generated by such system shall be deemed non- false
alarms; provided, however, that the County Sheriff’s Department is notified in
writing and within five days after the date of completion of the new system
installation or substantial modification of existing system. The grace period
shall cease 30 days after installation of or modification to the alarm system.
(Prior Code, 4 TCC 4-3)
§ 91.33 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Whenever an alarm is activated thereby requiring an emergency response
to the location by the Police or Fire Department and the Police or Fire
Department does respond, the Police or Fire Department personnel on the scene
of the activated alarm system shall inspect the area protected by the system
and shall determine whether the emergency response was, in fact, required as
indicated by the alarm system or whether the alarm signal was a false alarm.
   (B)   If the Police or Fire Department personnel at the scene of the
activated alarm system determines the alarm to be false, said officer shall
make a report of the false alarm.
   (C)   If it is determined that there have not been more than two false
alarms from said alarm system within the calendar year, the Chief of the Police
Department, the Chief of the Fire Department, or the designee of the Chief of
Police or the Fire Chief shall cause a notification of the false alarm report
to be mailed, by certified mail, or delivered to the alarm user at the address
of said alarm system installation location, advising the alarm user of the
false alarm.
   (D)   An alarm user who receives said notification shall have five days
within which to inform the Chief of the Department responsible for issuing the
notification that the alarm user disputes the existence of the false alarm. If
the alarm user fails to make said notification within the stated time period,
it shall be presumed that the existence of the false alarm has been
acknowledged.
(Prior Code, 4 TCC 4-4)
§ 91.34 INVESTIGATION.
   The Chief of the Police or Fire Department or his or her designee shall have
the right to inspect any alarm system on the premises to which a response has
been made, and he or she may cause an inspection of such system to be made at
any reasonable time thereafter.
(Prior Code, 4 TCC 4-5)
NUISANCES
§ 91.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. Any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance or waste. LITTER may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish,
glass, metal, plastic or paper containers or other packaging material, motor
vehicle parts, furniture, appliances, oil, carcass of a dead animal, any
nauseous or offensive matter of any kind, any object likely to injure any
person, or anything else of any unsightly or unsanitary nature, which exists
upon any private property within the jurisdiction of the county. This
definition specifically excludes used or antiquated farm equipment.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership or co-partners, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, or any other
legal entity, or their legal representative, agent, or assigns.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-10)
§ 91.46 PUBLIC NUISANCE LITTER.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance to the public safety and welfare and
a public nuisance if litter exists upon real property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or tenant in control to permit
litter to exist on such property unless:
      (1)   The property has been designated as an appropriate disposal site
for litter by federal, state, or local government entities;
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or other container intended by
the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
liter; or
      (3)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to any emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly
disposes of such litter when the emergency situation no longer exists.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-11) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.47 WEEDS, PLANTS AND GRASS OVER CERTAIN HEIGHT DECLARED NUISANCE;
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, plants, or grass, other
than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants, to grow to a height
exceeding ten inches on a parcel of property one acre or less in size, located
in a residential zone district.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-12) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.48 VACATED PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) occupying or controlling any lot,
building, or structure to vacate the premises prior to removal therefrom all
garbage and refuse, or to fail to secure areas, building, equipment, or places
against unauthorized access where such access threatens the safety of
individuals.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-13) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.49 GARBAGE AND REFUSE VEHICLES.
   (A)   The county hereby adopts the provisions of 55 ILCS 5/5-8002. All the
commercial equipment used for the collection of garbage, landscape wastes, and
recyclable material must obtain a permit from the County Health Department.
Application for permits shall be in writing and in such form as shall be
prescribed by the County Health Department, pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/5-8002. Such
permit shall be kept in vehicle at all times.
   (B)   Such vehicle shall be so constructed, covered, managed, and controlled
so as to prevent any part of the contents thereof from falling, leaking, or
spilling.
   (C)   Garbage, refuse, and rubbish that is allowed to blow from or drop off
any garbage vehicle is the responsibility of such vehicle owner to retrieve
immediately.
   (D)   Overnight parking of loaded garbage collection vehicles on public or
private property so as to create a nuisance is prohibited.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-14)
§ 91.50 OTHER NUISANCES.
   (A)   (1)   Any attractive nuisance which may prove detrimental to life,
health, or safety whether in a building, on the premises of a building, or upon
an unoccupied lot.
      (2)   This includes, but is not limited to, any abandoned well shaft,
basement, or excavation, motor vehicle, discarded, abandoned, unattended, or
used refrigerators, iceboxes, and similar containers equipped with airtight
door or lid, snap lock, or other locking device which may not be released from
the inside.
      (3)   The duties of this item are imposed alike on the owner of the
nuisance and the owner or occupant of the premises where the nuisance is
permitted to remain.
   (B)   The presence of rats, flies, or other vermin.
   (C)   To allow the carcasses of dead animals or any parts of decaying animal
matter to remain not buried, destroyed, or collected within 24 hours after
death or dismemberment.
   (D)   No garbage disposal shall be conducted by open dumping or open
burning.
   (E)   All other uses and conditions of property, which due to their
existence create an environment deemed by the Health Officer to be prejudicial
to public health.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-15)
§ 91.51 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   See §
94.10 for information concerning notice.
GARBAGE
§ 91.65 INTRODUCTION.
   The state’s Solid Waste Planning and Recycling Act of 1988 (415 ILCS 15/1 et
seq.) mandates each county prepare a 20-year solid waste management plan. The
law further requires that the plans be updated every five years. On March 27,
1991, the County Board initially adopted the county’s solid waste management
plan. Subsequently, on August 28, 1996, the County Board adopted the county’s
first five year update. The solid waste management plan was further updated
June 13, 2001. This second plan update contains new requirements for host
community agreements which are provided here for ease of reference.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 7-1)
§ 91.66 HOST COMMUNITY AGREEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A host community agreement is a voluntarily entered legal contract
between a private waste management facility owner and units of local
government. Under such an agreement, the parties work together to effectively
address solid waste management needs and concerns. A host community agreement
typically includes provisions for the payment of host fees, capacity
guarantees, environmental safeguards, and other related concerns and benefits.
   (B)   Any applicant requesting site location approval for any new or
expanded pollution control facility must agree to the following conditions in a
host community agreement negotiated with the county and, if appropriate, the
siting authority (if the siting authority is not the county but a
municipality).The host community agreement must be signed prior to submitting a
siting application pursuant to § 39.2 of the state’s Environmental Protection
Act, being 415 ILCS 5/39.2. The county’s host community agreement requirements
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)    No regulated hazardous waste shall be accepted for processing/
final disposal at the facility;
      (2)   A guarantee of long-term processing/disposal capacity for the
county’s non-hazardous solid waste and non-hazardous special waste (contingent
upon the facility having proper permits from the IEPA to accept special waste).
The length of the processing/capacity guarantee will be agreed upon by the
applicant, the county, and the siting authority (if appropriate);
      (3)   A host fee must be paid by the applicant to the county and the
siting authority (if appropriate). The host fee will be calculated on a per ton
basis. The per ton host fee will be adjusted annually based on the appropriate
consumer price index for the county;
      (4)   A property value protection program for real estate within a site
specific distance (to be negotiated);
      (5)   A domestic water well protection plan for existing water wells
within a site specific distance (to be negotiated) of a new or expanded
landfill or an organic and/or mixed municipal waste compositing facility;
      (6)   An indemnification agreement that will indemnify and hold harmless
the county and its officers, agents, and employees from liability associated
with any and all operations at the facility;
      (7)   An assignment of rights clause that will allow the County Board
authority to approve or disapprove any transfer of ownership or other interest
in the facility;
      (8)   If the facility is to be owned by a private individual or
corporation, an environment contingency fund or an alternative environmental
protection plan must be established to pay for the expenses of environmental
clean-up and damages awarded under paragraph;
      (9)   The environmental contingency fund or environmental protection plan
is in addition to the financial assurance requirements of the state and federal
regulations;
      (10)   A procedure, agreed upon by the county, to annually determine the
remaining processing/disposal capacity at the facility (as appropriate);
      (11)   The applicant must allow the county unrestricted access to all
non-financial records associated with the facility, as required by state and
federal statutes and regulations;
      (12)   A procedure for enforcing the terms of the host community
agreement by both the county and landowners who have rights under the agreement
and landowners who have rights under the agreement and the recovery of damages
and other relief for individuals who suffer injury caused by any emission from
the facility (e.g., dust, noise, runoff, or groundwater contamination). This
procedure shall be structured to provide quick and efficient resolution of the
issues; and
      (13)   A performance bond or similar guarantee shall be provided to
ensure the performance of the requirements in divisions (B)(4), (B)(5), and (B)
(8) above.
   (C)   After the preliminary host agreement has been negotiated, the text of
the proposal shall be made public and a public hearing will be held. The
applicant will provide notice of the hearing by first class mail to all
residents within one and one-half miles of the proposed facility at least ten
days prior to the hearing.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 7-2)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Individuals violating a temporary burning ban declared under §§
91.01 or
91.02 may be charged with a petty offense and fined accordingly.
   (C)   Violation of any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.17 is a petty offense.
   (D)   For failure to comply with §§
91.30 through
91.34, an alarm user shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $75 nor
more than $500 per occurrence. For false alarms, an alarm user shall be subject
to a penalty of not less than $75 nor more than $500 for each false alarm in
excess of two per calendar year.
   (E)   For violation of §§
91.45 through
91.51, see §
94.99(B).
(Prior Code, 4 TCC 3-3; Prior Code, 4 TCC 4-6; Prior Code, 6 TCC 2-4)
CHAPTER 92: MASS GATHERINGS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Permit required
   
92.03   Application for permit
   
92.04   Contents of application for permit
   
92.05   Execution of performance bond
   
92.06   Evidence of insurance
   
92.07   Expenses incurred by police
   
92.08   Failure to meet requirements
   
92.09   Issuance or denial of permit
   
92.10   Administrative Review Act
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Supervisors of Tazewell County.
   DEPARTMENT. The Tazewell County Health Department.
   MASS GATHERING. Any public gathering of people within the unincorporated
area of Tazewell County which may reasonably be expected to number 5,000 or
more and which can reasonably be expected to continue for at least ten hours.
   PROMOTERS. Any person, partnership, association, or corporation, their
officers, agents, and employees.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 5-1)
§ 92.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no mass gathering may be
set up, held, or promoted unless a written permit has been obtained from the
County Board by the promoters at least 60 days in advance of the proposed mass
gathering. No such permit may be issued by the County Board until bond has been
posted and evidence of insurance furnished as provided in §§
92.05 and
92.06 and a written statement of the Department showing compliance with the
provisions regarding health and sanitation.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to:
      (1)   Publicly-owned land. A mass gathering which is conducted or
sponsored by a governmental unit or agency; or a mass gathering legally held on
publicly-owned land or property; or
      (2)   Permanent structure. A mass gathering conducted within a permanent
structure.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 5-2)
§ 92.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   In order to obtain a permit to set up, hold, or promote any mass
gathering, the promoters must file a written application under oath.
   (B)   They must, in said application, set forth in detail how they will meet
the following standards.
      (1)   Parking facilities. Parking facilities, off public roadways, shall
be provided to fully serve all reasonably anticipated requirements at a rate of
no more than 100 passenger cars per usable acre or 40 buses per usable acre; if
leased land is included, copies of all leases must be submitted with the
application.
      (2)   Transportation facilities. Transportation arrangements from non-
contiguous parking facilities to the site shall fully serve all reasonably
anticipated requirements at a rate of no less than 5,000 persons per hour.
      (3)   Privy requirements. Privy construction and location shall not
constitute a threat to surface or underground water pollution. Such facilities
shall be designed to fully serve all reasonable anticipated requirements at a
rate of no more the 100 persons per lavatory. All such facilities shall be
provided in accordance with the rules and regulations of the state’s Department
of Public Health and the TCHD. Such facilities are to be inspected by the TCHD
prior to the mass gathering.
      (4)   Drinking water requirements. One pint of safe drinkable water per
person, per hour, at the maximum estimated hourly attendance, shall be provided
and shall meet the approved water supply standards of the state’s Department of
Public Health and the TCHD as applied to interstate traffic. Internal water
distribution shall meet the requirements of the state’s Plumbing Code. Such
water distribution shall be inspected by the TCHD prior to the mass gathering.
      (5)   Refuse collection. Internal storage and collection of refuse shall
be provided and shall not constitute a threat to surface or underground water
pollution. A large dumpster container shall be unitized as a means of
collection. A refuse disposal site approved by the state’s Environmental
Protection Agency and the TCHD shall be provided; the premises and immediate
surrounding properties shall be cleaned within 48 hours after the event.
      (6)   First aid facilities. Emergency first aid facilities with qualified
staff, including at least one doctor and two registered nurses and sufficient
auxiliary personnel, who have passed the Red Cross First Aid Course, and also
including ambulance service from a daily licensed provider.
      (7)   Food service facilities. Food service facilities shall meet the
state’s Department of Public Health and/or the TCHD food establishment
requirements, including the mandatory dispensing of food and liquids using
single service, disposal material, shall be provided to fully serve all
reasonable anticipated requirements. All food service facilities shall be
inspected by the Department and shall meet or exceed health requirements.
      (8)   Lighting requirements. The site shall be provided with adequate
light to illuminate the entire site at all times. All lighting shall be
controlled so as not to reflect on any area beyond the boundary of said site.
      (9)   Noise level requirements. Amplifying equipment shall control the
noise level at the perimeter of the premises as described in §
92.04(C), to no more than 70 decibels on the “A” scale of sound level meter
which meets the specifications of the American National Standards Institute.
      (10)   Entertainment. No entertainment activity governed hereby shall be
located within 500 feet of any occupied dwelling unless:
         (a)   The County Board determines that the area to be specifically
used by the activity is adequately buffered from all residential development;
         (b)   A written waiver has been filed with the County Board by
occupants of each dwelling within 500 feet of the proposed entertainment
activity area, excepting such dwelling as are found by the County Board to be
adequately buffered; or
         (c)   In the event all entertainment activity shall be discontinued at
1:00 a.m. and shall not resume until after 10:00 a.m.
      (11)   Security requirements. Security enforcement, including prevention
of the unlawful use of alcohol, marijuana, narcotics, or dangerous drugs at the
site, and methods for limiting the size of the proposed function to the number
of participants for which the facilities are designed shall be used. Security
enforcement shall include external as well as internal crowd control and
sufficient guards for crowd control and security enforcement shall be provided.
      (12)   Space requirements. At least 50 square feet per person shall be
available at the site, excluding areas used for sanction, food dispensing and
parking, and facilities to protect attendees from the elements shall be
provided if it can be reasonably anticipated that the attendees will remain at
the site overnight.
      (13)   Determining performance bond. Bond as provided for in §
92.05 shall be in the amount of $10 multiplied by the number of persons
anticipated to be in attendance, but in any event, not less than $50,000 nor
more than $300,000.
      (14)   Insurance requirements. Insurance as provided for in §
92.06 shall be in the minimum amount of $25,000 per person and $500 multiplied
by the number of persons anticipated to be in attendance, per occurrence as to
bodily injury or death, and $20 multiplied by the number of persons anticipated
to be in attendance as to property damage.
      (15)   Access road requirements. A site location of sufficient size shall
be provided so as to accommodate the anticipated number of persons to be in
attendance and with a sufficient number of access roads of a width and quality
so as to permit free and easy access to and from the site by emergency vehicles
and those in attendance.
      (16)   Removal of debris. The promoters shall guarantee the removal of
debris and material from the privies provided for in division (B)(3) above
within 48 hours after the end of the mass gathering. Such guarantee shall be
evidenced by a copy of a contract between the promoters and the refuse disposal
company who will remove said debris and material.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 5-3)
§ 92.04 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   The application for a permit shall contain:
   (A)   Identification of promoters. The name, age, residence, mailing
address, and telephone number/s of all promoters:
      (1)   A statement of the promoters’ legal nature (such as individual,
partnership, corporation, and the like). If a partnership, the names, addresses
and telephone numbers of all partners. If a corporation, the names, addresses,
and telephone numbers of all corporate officials and stockholders, together
with a certified copy of the articles of incorporation; and
      (2)   A list of names and addresses of all persons directly in charge of
the activity.
   (B)   Purpose of gathering. The nature or purpose of the mass gathering;
   (C)   Description of premises. The location and legal description of the
premises where the activity is proposed to be conducted, including all lands to
be used directly, or indirectly, or incidental to the proposed activity or any
part thereof. As to all such lands, there shall be attached to the application
certified copies of documents disclosing the nature of the interest of the
promoters in and to the same;
   (D)   Time of gathering. The date or dates and the hours during which the
activity is to be conducted;
   (E)   Statement of applicant. A detailed statement, containing plans and
specifications, of the applicant’s program and plans for the activity in its
entirety including, without limiting generality hereof, the manner in which the
applicant proposed to meet the regulations, requirements, and standards
provided for elsewhere in this chapter;
   (F)   Estimate of costs. An estimate of the costs of producing the activity
and all other costs related thereof (which said estimate shall not be binding
upon the County Board);
   (G)   Estimate of attendance. An estimate of the minimum and maximum number
of customers, spectators, participants, and other persons expected to attend
the activity daily or per performance;
   (H)   Certification of correctness of information. A statement certified on
penalty of perjury, the correctness of the information given on the application
and in supporting documents, and agreeing on behalf of the proposed licensee
that there shall be full compliance of the licensee with all state and local
laws in the conduct of the activities for which the license may be granted;
   (I)   Copy of contracts. A copy of all contracts with secondary parties
involved in the total event shall be furnished to the Chairperson of the County
Board;
   (J)   Inspection of premises. Authorization for inspection by the
Chairperson of the County Board or his or her representative and/or the County
Sheriff or his or her deputies and the TCHD personnel;
   (K)   Guarantee of access to premises. Said application shall also state
that the County Board, County Sheriff’s Department and the state’s Department
of Law Enforcement, TCHD and state’s Department of Public Health, are
guaranteed free and open access to all areas of the grounds, buildings,
offices, or other facilities of the mass gathering for the purpose of
inspection to ensure compliance with this chapter and the standards set forth
herein. Such application shall also contain a provision that the promoters
agree to the payment of all expenses provided for in §
92.07. The County Board shall require the promoters to submit plans,
specifications reports in connection with such application as it may deem
necessary before acting upon the application. Any such application shall be
acted upon by the County Board within 30 days after receipt thereof. Each
application submitted under this section shall be accompanied by an application
fee of $100;
   (L)   Additional information. Such additional information as the County
Board may require in determining compliance with the provisions of the Act and
the standards adopted hereunder; and
   (M)   Certification of application for permit. The promoters shall certify
said application under oath before a notary public.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 5-4)
§ 92.05 EXECUTION OF PERFORMANCE BOND.
   No permit may be issued under this chapter until the promoters have executed
and filed a performance and payment bond with the County Board in such form and
amount, not less than $50,000 nor more than $300,000, and which surety as the
County Board may require. Such bond shall be conditioned on the promoter’s
faithful performance of the requirements for issuance of a permit as stated in
§§
92.03 and
92.04 for the payment of the expenses provided for in §
92.07.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 5-5)
§ 92.06 EVIDENCE OF INSURANCE.
   Before issuance of a permit, the County Board shall also require the
promoters to furnish evidence of insurance of a character and amount and in
such form as may be determined by the County Board to provide the payment of
any claims for personal injuries (including death), property damage, or other
suits arising out of or connected with such mass gathering.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 5-6)
§ 92.07 EXPENSES INCURRED BY POLICE.
   Any expense resulting from the use of a reasonable number of state and local
police or member of the state’s National Guard for the control of traffic and
persons attending the mass gathering or for the enforcement of laws in
connection therewith shall be paid by the promoters to each law enforcement
agency incurring such expense.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 5-7)
§ 92.08 FAILURE TO MEET REQUIREMENTS.
   If the promoters fail to substantially perform the requirements for issuance
of a permit stated herein of fail to pay the expenses provided for in §
92.07, the County Board shall give written notice of the violation to the
promoters by registered or certified mail. Such notice shall state, in general
terms, the nature of the violation and indicate that an action seeking
forfeiture of the bond provided for in §
92.05 may commenced at any time after ten days unless a written request for a
hearing on such violation is made by the promoters within the ten-day period.
If the promoters fail to make such a request, or after a hearing is concluded,
the County Board may either withdraw notice of the violation or request the
Attorney General or the State’s Attorney of the county to institute suit upon
the bond to recover the full amount thereof. The amount recovered shall be used
for payment of any expenses provided for in §
92.07 and the remainder deposited in the county’s General Fund for the use and
benefit of the people of the county.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 5-8)
§ 92.09 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   A permit may be issued or denied by the Chairperson of the County Board over
his or her signature on behalf of the County Board after he or she is directed
by a vote of the majority of the County Board. If a permit is denied, a notice
stating the reasons therefor shall be mailed by certified mail to the applicant
within five days of such action and the application fee be returned with said
denial. The applicant may request a hearing before the County Board to consider
the denial of the permit. The entire procedure of any such hearing shall be
transcribed at the request of the County Board or the promoters and at the
expense of the party requesting the transcript. If a permit is issued, it shall
be mailed within five days after issuance to the promoters by registered or
certified mail.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 5-9)
§ 92.10 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW ACT.
   All final administrative decisions of the County Board under this Act are
subject to judicial review under the Administrative Review Act. The term
ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION is defined as in § I of the Administrative Review Act.
Such proceedings for judicial review shall be commenced in the Circuit Court of
the county.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 5-10)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who sets up, holds, or promotes a mass gathering without
first obtaining a permit from the County Board or who fails to comply with this
chapter is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. Each day’s violation constitutes a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 5-11)
   (B)   In addition to the fine provided for herein, the Chairperson of the
County Board is hereby authorized to proceed by way of injunction or any other
form of action to stop violation of or to enforce compliance by all applicants
and all persons covered by this chapter with the terms and requirements hereof,
the additional terms and requirements imposed by the County Board and the laws,
rules, and regulations adopted by federal, state, or local government agencies
applicable to the activity or event in question.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 5-12)
   (C)   If any mass gathering, as defined herein, is held in violation of a
court injunction, the County Board shall, in addition to its other powers, have
power to attach, confiscate, and hold all gate receipts until all court action
is terminated with intention of holding said funds to satisfy any fine that
might be levied for violation of this chapter, or any injunction that might be
issued, or of damage claims that might be filed by any person.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 5-13)
CHAPTER 93: VEHICLE REGULATIONS
Section
Inoperable Motor Vehicles
   
93.01   Purpose and authority
   
93.02   Inoperable motor vehicles prohibited
   
93.03   Notice to abate nuisance
   
93.04   Duty to abate; time limits
   
93.05   Failure to abate
   
93.06   Abatement by county
   
93.07   Summary abatement in certain situations
   
93.08   Costs of abatement
   
93.09   Lien against property
Skateboarding Prohibition
   
93.20   Skateboards and other recreational vehicles prohibited
   
93.21   Exceptions
Traffic and Highway Regulations
   
93.35   Records of regulations; traffic-control devices
 
   
93.99   Penalty
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 93.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to authority granted by 55 ILCS 5/5-1092, the purpose of this
chapter is to provide a method of abating nuisances created in the county by
inoperable motor vehicles and to provide for fines to be levied for the failure
of any person to obey a notice received from the county which states that such
person is to dispose of any inoperable motor vehicles under his or her control
and to authorize the County Sheriff to remove any such inoperable motor vehicle
or part thereof pursuant to the process herein provided.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 1-1)
§ 93.02 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared a nuisance for any person to cause or permit the
existence or storage upon any premises within the county and outside the
municipal confines of any city or village or incorporated town in the county:
   (A)   Any inoperable motor vehicle or part thereof; and
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE means any
motor vehicle or other vehicle and part thereof from which for a period of at
least seven days, the engine, the wheels, or other parts have been removed or
on which the engine, wheels, or other parts have been altered, damaged, or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its
own motor power. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall also include unregistered
vehicles that are subject to the vehicle registration laws enumerated in 625
ILCS 5/3-400 et seq., and that have been without valid registration for a
period of at least 30 days. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of
being driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or
repair operations;
      (2)   Any vehicle that is kept within an enclosed building when not in
use;
      (3)   Any vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in the
wrecking, junking, storage, or sales of motor vehicles or other vehicles;
      (4)   Any motor vehicle not required to be registered in order to operate
it upon a public road or highway;
      (5)   Any inoperable historic motor vehicles over 25 years of age which
are licensed pursuant to § 3-804 of the Motor Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/3-804);
and
      (6)   One unlicensed vehicle may be allowed to remain on property if such
vehicle serves an active, functional business purpose (not including storage)
solely on premises where such use is lawful under the Zoning Code and that is
deemed inoperable solely because it is unregistered. Such number of vehicles
shall not exceed one vehicle.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 1-2) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any zoning inspector determines that an inoperable vehicle
exists on any public or private property located in the county and outside the
municipal confines of any city, town, village, or incorporated town, the zoning
inspector shall cause a written notice to be served upon the owner or person in
control of the property or premises who is causing, permitting, or maintaining
such inoperable motor vehicle, which notice shall inform the person served that
an inoperable motor vehicle constitutes a nuisance under this provision.
   (B)   Such notice shall fairly appraise such person of the nature of the
nuisance, his or her duty to abate or remove the nuisance and dispose of any
such inoperable motor vehicle within the time provided therein, the penalty for
failure to abate the same, and shall state that if said nuisance is abated by
the county, liability for necessary expenses so incurred shall accrue as
provided in §
93.08.
   (C)   Whenever any person is served with a notice by a zoning inspector
pursuant to division (A) above, such person may appeal such determination to
the Community Development Administrator. Such appeal must be made in writing
and received by the Community Development Administrator within five days of
receipt of the inspector’s notice. Upon receipt of an appeal, the Administrator
shall either affirm or reverse the inspector’s determination. Such appeal shall
not automatically toll the running of the seven-day period. The administrator’s
determination is appealable pursuant to §§ 157.315 through 157.318.
   (D)   Whenever any zoning inspector determines that such inoperable motor
vehicles remains for seven days after receipt of notice as provided in division
(A) above, the Community Development Administrator or the Field Inspector may
serve the owner or person in control of the property by any means as authorized
by 55 ILCS 5/5-41020.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 1-3)
§ 93.04 DUTY TO ABATE; TIME LIMITS.
   It is hereby declared the duty of any person determined to have created,
caused, erected, maintained, or permitted a nuisance as defined §
93.02 to exist within the county to discontinue and abate such nuisance within
seven days from the time he or she receives written notice thereof pursuant to
§
93.03(D).
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 1-4)
§ 93.05 FAILURE TO ABATE.
   It shall be unlawful and in violation of this chapter for any person to
neglect, refuse, or otherwise fail to remove or abate any nuisance as defined
in §
93.02 after the expiration of the seven days of service of notice pursuant to §
93.03(D).
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 1-5) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 ABATEMENT BY COUNTY.
   Whenever any nuisance, as defined in §
93.02, is not abated by the owner, lessee, or person in control of the premises
or property affected within the time provided by notice, the County Sheriff’s
Department shall cause the abatement or removal of such nuisance by having the
inoperable vehicle removed from the subject premises.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 1-6)
§ 93.07 SUMMARY ABATEMENT IN CERTAIN SITUATIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, whenever any nuisance
constitutes or is deemed to be an eminent or immediate danger to the public
health or safety by any health inspector, law enforcement officer of the County
Sheriff’s Department, or County Community Development Administrator, or exists
on public property, the proper county officer shall cause such nuisance to be
summarily and immediately abated and removed, regardless of any seven-day
notice period.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 1-7)
§ 93.08 COSTS OF ABATEMENT.
   Any costs or expenses of abatement reasonably incurred by the county
pursuant to the provisions of §§
93.06 and
93.07 shall be a debt to the county by the owner, lessee, and/or person in
control of premises upon which such nuisance existed, and shall constitute a
lien on such property.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 1-8)
§ 93.09 LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY.
   Whenever a fine or cost shall be assessed under the provisions of this
chapter against the owner or any property herein declared to be a nuisance,
such fine or costs shall constitute a lien upon such property to the extent of
the interest of such owner, and an order of execution may issue thereon.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 1-9)
SKATEBOARDING PROHIBITION
§ 93.20 SKATEBOARDS AND OTHER RECREATIONAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any wheeled vehicle or apparatus in county-
owned buildings or on the surrounding grounds owned by the county without prior
written approval of the County Board.
(Prior Code, 4 TCC 2-1) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The requirements of §
93.20 shall not apply to parking lots.
   (B)   The requirements of §
93.20 shall not apply to any vehicle or apparatus necessary for the mobility of
a disabled person.
(Prior Code, 4 TCC 2-2)
TRAFFIC AND HIGHWAY REGULATIONS
§ 93.35 RECORDS OF REGULATIONS; TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   All traffic regulations and restrictions adopted by the county from
time to time have been filed as part of the County Superintendent of Highways’
records. Such regulations covering speed, weight, lane usage, signals, signs,
parking, and all other motor vehicle matters shall continue in full force and
effect.
   (B)   Furthermore, the County Board authorizes the Superintendent of
Highways to erect and maintain traffic-control devices as provided by law.
(Prior Code, 5 TCC 3-1)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   The violation of the terms of §§
93.01 through
93.07 is hereby punishable by a fine not less than $100 and not to exceed $500,
with each seven days or part thereof the violation remains uncorrected
constituting a separate offense. Such fine may be imposed by a court upon the
prosecution of any violation of the terms of §§
93.01 through
93.07.
      (2)   In addition to any fine imposed under §§
93.01 through
93.07, the court may order that the person convicted of such a violation remove
the inoperable motor vehicle or other vehicle. At its discretion, the court may
order that the nuisance be abated by the Sheriff or other proper officer at the
expense of the defendant.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 1-5)
   (C)   Any person found in violation of §
93.20 is guilty of a petty offense and subject to a fine of not less than $10
and not more than $500.
(Prior Code, 4 TCC 2-3)
CHAPTER 94: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
Water
   
94.01   Public water supply to be used
   
94.02   Permit required
   
94.03   Application for permit
   
94.04   Location and construction of water well pumps
   
94.05   Disinfection and analysis
   
94.06   Cisterns
   
94.07   Continuing analysis
   
94.08   Capacity, storage, trunk, and service lines
   
94.09   Registration
   
94.10   Notice of violation
Sewers
   
94.25   Definitions
   
94.26   Adoption by reference
   
94.27   Permits
   
94.28   Contractor registrations
   
94.29   Compliance and performance
   
94.30   Issuance of notice
   
94.31   Revocation of private sewage disposal contractor and/or pumper
registration
   
94.32   Approval of proposed subdivision plats
   
94.33   Design; evaporation beds
   
94.34   Operation permits for a surface discharge system
   
94.35   Portable sanitation
   
94.36   Hearings
Closed Loop Well System
   
94.45   Definitions
   
94.46   Adoption by reference
   
94.47   Inspection requirement
   
94.48   Exemption
   
94.49   Setback distances
   
94.50   Application for permit
   
94.51   Permit fee
   
94.52   Registration of closed loop well system contractors
   
94.53   Notifications
   
94.54   Use of food-grade propylene glycol as coolant
   
94.55   Casing
   
94.56   Grouting
   
94.57   Supersession by state law
 
   
94.99   Penalty
WATER
§ 94.01 PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY TO BE USED.
   In those locations where a public water supply is reasonably available, a
water well may not be used as a source of water for drinking and culinary
purposes, if it would result in any plumbing connection, however indirect, with
any public water supply, except as allowed by the public water supply
authority.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-16)
§ 94.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No water well shall be constructed or repaired nor any water well pump
installed in this county except in accordance with this subchapter, and it
shall be unlawful to proceed with such work unless a permit therefor shall have
first been obtained from the County Health Department, said permit fee being
$100.
   (B)   All wells and pumps shall be maintained in safe condition by the
owner.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-17) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for such permits shall be in writing and in such forms as shall
be prescribed by the County Health Department.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-18)
§ 94.04 LOCATION AND CONSTRUCTION OF WATER WELL PUMPS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise herein provided, the location, construction,
repair, and disinfection of water wells and the installation of water well
pumps shall be governed by the requirements set forth in the Water Well
Construction Code of the state’s Department of Public Health (see 77 Ill. Adm.
Code 920) and the Water Well Pump Installation Code of the state’s Department
of Public Health (see 77 Ill. Adm. Code 925). Wells that have been abandoned
shall be sealed in the manner prescribed by the County Health Department.
   (B)   All new and replacement individual or community water supply systems
which are subject to approval by the County Health Department shall be located
and constructed to avoid impairment to them or contamination of them during
flooding.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-19)
§ 94.05 DISINFECTION AND ANALYSIS.
   Owners of a new well shall have the water analyzed and approved by either
the laboratory of the state’s Department of Public Health or a laboratory
approved by the County Health Department before the well is placed in service.
A copy of the analysis shall be filed with the County Health Department. (Prior
Code, 6 TCC 1-20)
§ 94.06 CISTERNS.
   Cisterns, when used for secure sources of drinking water, shall be located,
constructed, and maintained in accordance with the requirements of the
Department of Public Health.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-21)
§ 94.07 CONTINUING ANALYSIS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of every well serving as a water supply
for more than one residence to have the water therein bacteriologically
analyzed and approved at such times as required by the County Health
Department; however, such analysis shall be made by either the laboratory of
the state’s Department of Public Health or a laboratory approved by the County
Health Department. In addition, such water shall be analyzed as aforesaid
whenever the water lines are opened up for additional service to new residences
or other residences which have not heretofore been supplied from said well. A
copy of the analysis shall be filed with the County Health Department.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-22)
§ 94.08 CAPACITY, STORAGE, TRUNK, AND SERVICE LINES.
   All wells furnishing the water supply to more than one residence shall meet
the following requirements.
   (A)   The supply of water shall be sufficient to pump a minimum of six
gallons per minute for a minimum of 12 hours per day.
   (B)   A storage area shall be installed and maintained with a minimum
storage capacity of 100 gallons for each residence served or to be served,
maintained at a minimum pressure of 30 pounds per square inch.
   (C)   All trunk lines shall be no smaller than two inches in diameter.
   (D)   All service lines shall be no smaller than three-fourths of an inch in
diameter.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-23)
§ 94.09 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The owners of all wells serving as the water supply for more than one
residence shall register the same with the County Health Department on such
forms as shall be furnished by said Department.
   (B)   OWNER is hereby defined as the person, firm, or corporation who holds
legal title to the premises in which said well is located. If the owner is a
firm or corporation, the owner shall also appoint a person to be in charge of
the maintenance of said well and all service and trunk lines and his or her
name shall be registered with said Department. Any change of the person in
charge as herein required shall be promptly reported by the owner to said
Department.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-24)
§ 94.10 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The Health Authority may serve or cause to be served a notice, in
writing, upon the owner, agent, occupant, or person in possession, charge, or
control of any lot, building, or premises or item of personalty in or upon
which any nuisance exists, requiring said person to abate the same within a
specified, reasonable time, in such manner as the notice shall direct.
   (B)   (1)   An appeal to the Board of Health from any notice shall be
provided if a written request for a hearing is filed with the Health Department
within the time established for the abatement of the nuisance.
      (2)   The Board of Health may exceed the time to abate or otherwise
dispose of violation.
   (C)   If the person so served and notified does not abate the nuisance
within the specified reasonable time, as may by modified by hearing, the Health
Authority shall notify the State’s Attorney.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-25)
SEWERS
§ 94.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. The legally designated Administrator or the
Acting Administrator of the County Health Department and shall include those
persons designated by the Administrator or Acting Administrator to enforce the
provisions of the chapter.
   BEDROOM. Any room with a closet, excluding kitchens, hallways and bathrooms.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Tazewell County Board of Health or its authorized
representative(s).
   DISCHARGE POINT. The point at which treated effluent discharges from an
approved private sewage disposal system, compliant with the IDPH Private Sewage
Disposal Code, being 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater derived principally from dwellings, businesses
or office buildings, institutions, food service establishments, or similar
facilities.
   EVAPORATION BED. A bed as designed in §
94.33 that is intended to allow properly treated effluent to evaporate.
   HEALTH AUTHORITY. The person or persons who have been designated by the
Board of Health to administer the affairs of the Health Department.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Tazewell County Health Department, an agent of the
Tazewell County Board of Health.
   HOMEOWNER. A contract-for-deed buyer or a person who holds legal title to a
residential structure which is to be used for his or her personal single-family
residence.
   HOMEOWNER INSTALLED SYSTEMS. A private sewage disposal system installed by
the homeowner for his or her personal single-family residence. A homebuilder
building a spec home is not considered the homeowner unless the intent is to
reside in the home and therefore cannot install the septic system.
   MODIFY. Any change in the design or components of a private sewage disposal
system requiring a permit herein defined.
   OPERATION INSPECTION. An inspection of the private sewage disposal system to
determine compliance with this chapter and the state’s Department of Public
Health Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code by a private sewage
disposal system installation contractor registered with the County Health
Department or the authorized representative of the Health Department.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the Board of Health or its authorized
representative permitting the construction or operation of a private sewage
disposal system under this chapter.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage handling or treatment facility
receiving domestic sewage from less than 15 people or population equivalent and
having a ground surface discharge; or any sewage handling or treatment facility
receiving domestic sewage and having no ground surface discharge.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM INSTALLATION CONTRACTOR. Any person licensed
by the state’s Department of Public Health for excavating, constructing,
repairing, installing, modifying, maintaining or servicing a private sewage
disposal system.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS AND PUMPERS
REGISTRATION. An annual registration certificate issued by the Tazewell County
Health Department to all private sewage disposal contractors and pumpers
engaged in the installation and/or servicing of private sewage disposal systems
within the limits of the county.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PUMPING CONTRACTOR. Any person licensed by
the state’s Department of Public Health who cleans or pumps waste from a
private sewage disposal system, portable toilet, portable hand-washing unit or
holding tanks or hauls or disposes wastes removed therefrom.
   SEPTIC TANK MANUFACTURERS AND/OR AERATION UNIT DEALERS. Any person who
manufacturers, sells, offers for sale, or delivers the state’s Department of
Public Health approved septic tanks or aeration units in or into the county.
   SEPTIC TANK MANUFACTURERS AND/OR AERATION UNIT DEALERS REGISTRATION. An
annual registration certificate issued by the County Health Department to all
septic tank manufacturers and/or aeration unit dealers engaged in the
manufacture, sale, offer for sale, and delivery of septic tanks or aeration
units in or into the county.
   SURFACE DISCHARGING SYSTEM. A private sewage disposal system that releases
or has the potential to release treated domestic sewage onto the ground, into
any kind of drain or conveyance, or into surface waters.
   ZONING INSPECTION. An inspection of the private sewage disposal system to
determine compliance with this chapter and the state’s Department of Public
Health Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code by a private sewage
disposal system installation contractor registered with the County Health
Department or an authorized representative of the Health Department when
property is to be re-platted, additional bedrooms or square footage are added
to the existing dwelling or a dwelling must be rebuilt due to loss.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-1) (Ord. E-19-96, passed 5-29-2019)
§ 94.26 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   This chapter shall adopt by reference and shall be interpreted and enforced
in accordance with provisions set forth in the current, unabridged form of the
state’s Department of Public Health, Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act
found at 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq., and the Private Sewage Disposal Code found at
77 Ill. Adm. Code 905, and any subsequent amendments or revisions thereto,
three certified copies of which shall be on file in the office of the County
Clerk. This chapter shall control with respect to any differences between it
and these incorporated provisions.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-2)
§ 94.27 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter, or extend
private sewage disposal systems within the county unless he or she holds a
valid permit issued by the Health Department stating the name of such person
for which the specific construction, alteration, or extension is proposed. This
permit shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of issue.
   (B)   All applications for permits granted under the provisions of this
chapter shall be made to the Board of Health or its duly authorized
representative. Sufficient data shall be included to allow review and to
determine whether the proposed application for permit meets the requirements of
this chapter. This information is including but not limited to all property
boundaries, easements, location of existing or planned inground sprinkler
system, inground pools, underground utilities, location of all drains, wells,
cisterns, buildings, driveways, patios whether existing or proposed and soil
boring locations. Permit shall include one complete set of building plans for
new construction and/or homeowner’s signature verifying the number of bedrooms
for the dwelling.
   (C)   A permit shall only be issued upon an application signed by a
homeowner and/or property owner or a county registered private sewage disposal
system installation contractor installing a sewage disposal system.
   (D)   Permit application forms are provided by the Health Department and
shall be completed and signed by each applicant, and shall include the
following:
      (1)   Name, address, phone number and email address of the applicant and
legal description of the proposed site of construction, alteration, or
extension as proposed;
      (2)   Complete plan of the proposed disposal facility, with
substantiating data, if necessary, attesting to its compliance with the minimum
standards of this chapter; and
      (3)   Such other information as may be required by the health authority
the proposed construction, alteration, or extension complies with the minimum
standards of this chapter.
   (E)   The Board of Health or its authorized representative may refuse to
grant a permit for the construction or repair of a private sewage disposal
system where public or municipal sewage systems are available. Such a sewage
system shall be deemed available when a public sewer line is in place within
any street, alley, right-of-way, or easement that adjoins or abuts the premises
for which the permit is requested, or when the improvement to be served is
located within a reasonable distance of a public sewer to which connection is
practical and is permitted by the controlling authority for the sewer. A
reasonable distance for the purpose of this provision shall be deemed to be not
greater than 300 feet for a single-family residence and not greater than 1,320
feet for a commercial establishment, subdivision, or multi-family dwelling. A
connection is practical when it is cost-effective with regard to the septic
system alternatives and can be completed using customary sewer lines. The need
to annex an improvement other than a single-family residence to the
municipality in order to connect to the municipal sanitary system does not make
the municipal sewer system unavailable within the meaning of this section.
   (F)   The Board of Health or its authorized representative shall act upon
all applications within 15 days of the receipt thereof.
   (G)   Said permit to construct is valid for a period of one year from the
date of issuance. If construction has not been completed within this period,
the permit is void.
   (H)   (1)   A soil investigation must be performed prior to the issuance of
a permit. These tests shall be performed according to the provisions of the
state’s Department of Public Health Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and
Code, being 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq. and 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905 adopted
hereinafter by reference.
      (2)   This requirement shall be waived under the following condition: a
pre-site inspection by a Health Department representative determines lot
constrictions would not allow for a subsurface seepage system.
    (I)   The Health Department shall be notified of any modification, change,
or repair to any private sewage disposal system by either a homeowner or
contractor to determine whether that modification, change, or repair requires a
permit as set forth in division (A) above. The routine cleaning of a disposal
system components, replacing the septic tank cover, baffles, or riser, or
rodding out inlets and outlets does not require a permit as defined under this
section.
   (J)   There is a fee charged for the initial construction permit, any
alteration of a system including the installation of a sample port, extension,
variance request, or operation of a private disposal sewage system. The fee
shall be collected by the Health Department at the time an application for
permit is submitted and shall be deposited into the Health Department Fund. The
fee schedule shall be as approved by the Board of Health.
   (K)   All homeowners that have been issued a permit to construct, alter, or
extend an individual sewage system shall receive training approved by the
Health Department regarding maintenance of their septic system. This training
must be completed within 60 days of installation of the septic system.
   (L)   Any application for a new install, repair or extension of a surface
discharging system after the effective date (February 10, 2014) of the United
States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) Permit No. IL G62 must first have a general permit
(if required) from the USEPA prior to submitting a septic permit application to
this Department.
   (M)   On all newly platted parcels, a sufficient area of suitable ground
shall be provided for a second subsurface seepage system designed according to
the state’s Department of Public Health Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act
and Code. No shed, driveway, patio or like structures and improvements shall be
placed in any area or expansion area designated for a private sewage disposal
system.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-3) Penalty, see 94.99
§ 94.28 CONTRACTOR REGISTRATIONS.
   (A)    An annual contractor registration shall be required by all private
sewage disposal system installation contractors, all private sewage disposal
pumping contractors, all portable sanitation technicians and portable
sanitation technician trainees operating within the limits of the county. The
Health Department shall issue a private sewage disposal system installation
contractor registration certificate, a private sewage disposal system pumping
contractor registration certificate, a portable sanitation technician
registration certificate or a portable sanitation technician trainee
registration certificate to persons applying for such a certificate who pass
the written examination given by the state for the certificate desired and who
are licensed by the state as a private sewage disposal system installation
contractor and/or a private sewage disposal system pumping contractor. An
annual registration fee shall be required for each certificate issued. All
registration certificates shall expire December 31 of the following year. The
registration fee shall be set by the Board of Health.
   (B)   (1)   An annual septic tank manufacturer and/or aeration unit dealer
registration certificate shall be obtained by all persons who wish to
manufacture, sell, offer for sale, deliver, or provide maintenance service on
septic tanks or aeration units in or into the county. The County Health
Department shall issue a septic tank manufacturer and/or aeration unit dealer
registration certificate to persons who apply for such certificate and who have
approval to manufacture and sell septic tanks and/or aeration units for the
state’s Department of Public Health.
      (2)   There shall be no fee for said certificate. All registration
certificates shall expire December 31 of the following year in which were
issued, except those issued in December will expire December 31 of the
following year.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-4) (Ord. E-19-96, passed 5-29-2019)
§ 94.29 COMPLIANCE AND PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   All private sewage disposal systems within the limits of the county
shall be constructed, installed, maintained, and serviced by an individual with
a valid private sewage disposal system installation contractor’s certificate.
All such systems shall be pumped, cleaned, and the contents hauled and disposed
of by individuals with a valid private sewage disposal system pumping
certificate. A homeowner may install and/or service a private sewage disposal
system which serves his or her own personal single-family residence.
   (B)   (1)   All septic tank and/or aeration units manufactured, sold,
offered for sale, or delivered in the county shall comply with provisions in
this chapter. Owners whose property is served by an aerobic unit and/or has a
surface discharging system are required to have at all times an active contract
to inspect the operation and ensure proper maintenance of the system. The
inspection and maintenance must be done by a certified private sewage disposal
installation contractor. The homeowner of an ATU may conduct the inspection and
maintenance as defined within the Act, but the inspection and maintenance shall
be performed per the manufacturer’s requirements to assure proper operation. At
a minimum, surface discharging systems shall be inspected and/or maintained as
follows and in accordance with the IDPH Private Sewage Code:
         (a)   Aerobic treatment units: once every six months. Inspection and
maintenance must be performed by a manufacturer’s authorized service
representative;
         (b)   Sand filters: once a year, with a minimum of six months between
inspections;
         (c)   Waste stabilization pond: once a year, with a minimum of six
months between inspections; and
         (d)   All other surface discharging systems shall be inspected at a
frequency established by the Health Department.
      (2)   The Health Department reserves the right to increase the frequency
of inspection and/or maintenance of surface discharging systems if components
within the system require a more frequent inspection or maintenance, or if the
system is not operating properly.
   (C)    All existing surface discharging systems whose effluent leaves their
property or has the potential to leave their property must meet the state’s
Department of Public Health effluent standards and be sampled a minimum of once
a year. Effective January 1, 2020, based on the effluent results and no flow
history, the sampling may be reduced to once every three years. All discharging
systems shall comply with the sampling requirements as specified in the Private
Sewage Disposal Code, being 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905. Sample results must be
submitted to the County Health Department within 45 days of the date the sample
was collected. As of February 10, 2014, new installations and systems that are
repaired must have an EPA NPDES general permit No. IL G62 (if required) prior
to discharging. Those systems must meet the sampling requirements of the EPA
NPDES general permit No. IL G62 and submit sample results to County Health
Department within 45 days of the date the sample was collected.
   (D)   An operational inspection is recommended for any private sewage
disposal system, which is part of a sale of property or an exchange of
ownership prior to closing. If an operational inspection is completed, any
necessary repair or replacement revealed by the inspection shall be completed
by, or provided for, by escrowed funds at the closing on the sale of the
property. It is the responsibility of the buyer and seller to ensure that all
required corrections listed in the report are completed and are in compliance
with this chapter. It is the responsibility of the buyer to provide
documentation to this department within 60 days of closing showing all
corrections listed in the report have been completed.
   (E)   If an operational inspection is completed, the new owner of the
property shall receive training approved by the Health Department regarding
maintenance of their septic system. This training must be completed within 30
days of closing. Training may be completed online, in-house, in the field or by
receipt of information regarding the individual’s type of septic system.
   (F)   Operational inspections are valid for 90 days.
   (G)   An operational inspection may be conducted by a private sewage
disposal installation contractor registered with the County Health Department
or an authorized representative of the Health Department. Operational
inspection forms provided by the Health Department shall be fully completed and
signed by the inspector, and the buyer and seller if corrections are required,
and returned to the Health Department within ten days of inspection by the
operational inspector/contractor. Sufficient data shall be included to
determine if the septic system is in compliance with this chapter. If an
operational inspection is completed, failure to provide operational inspection
forms as stated above may result in revocation of the contractor’s registration
to perform operational inspections. When septic systems are not in compliance
with the chapter, it will be the responsibility of the buyer to provide
documentation to this department within 60 days of the closing showing all
corrections listed in the report have been completed. A private sewage disposal
installation contractor, licensed septic pumper, or licensed plumber (for
indoor plumbing only) can complete the required corrections.
   (H)   As of August 1997, any buried sand filter or aeration system installed
shall not discharge any effluent directly into any body of water where full
body contact activities are allowed. A discharge within 25 feet of the above
shall be considered a direct discharge to the received body of water. Effluent
from a receiving trench and/or evaporation bed shall not discharge closer than
15 feet from a body of water where full body contact activities are allowed.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to discharge untreated sewage or effluent from
any septic tank directly into any stream, ditch, ground surface, sink hole or
abandoned well, or to allow the contents of any privy vault, septic tank, or
seepage pit to emit offensive odors, to become objectionable, dangerous or
prejudicial, to the public health.
   (J)   Private sewage disposal systems constructed (permitted or non-
permitted systems) prior to August 1997 shall be exempt from the provisions of
this chapter until such time as the property transfers ownership or in
circumstances where existing systems necessitate repair or replacement due to
malfunction or nuisance, such repair or replacement shall be in conformance
with this chapter to the extent the lot size, soil conditions, topography, and
other unalterable constraints will allow as authorized by a variance approved
in accordance with this chapter.
   (K)   Effective June 16, 2005, when a property transfers ownership, if the
Health Department has no record of a permitted system for a private sewage
disposal system, the Health Department may require that a licensed septic
contractor verify that a functioning private sewage disposal system is present
with no illegal discharges. Cesspools are not considered to be a private sewage
disposal system according to the Department of Public Health Title 77: Public
Health, Chapter l: Department of Public Health, Subchapter R: Water and Sewage,
Part 905: Private Sewage Disposal Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905.30, approved
private sewage disposal systems and therefore will not be allowed as a private
sewage disposal system.
   (L)   The Board of Health or its authorized representative is hereby
authorized and directed to make such inspections as are necessary to determine
satisfactory compliance with this chapter.
   (M)   (1)   The Department shall have the authority, subject to
constitutional limitations, to enter at reasonable times upon private or public
property, by its representatives after identification, for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the administration and
enforcement of this chapter and the Private Sewage Disposal Code, being 77 Ill.
Adm. Code 905.
      (2)   The Department shall have access to any property or building
currently served by or will be served by a private sewage disposal system to
determine satisfactory compliance with this chapter. This access shall include
but is not limited to pre-site layout review, any stage of the initial
installation, repair or extension of a private sewage disposal system, final
inspection following of grading, investigation of a potentially failing private
sewage disposal system and inspection and sampling of surface discharging or
potential surface discharging system, and when a property is replatted to
ensure that the private sewage disposal system is located on the property of
the building it serves.
   (N)   If any private sewage disposal contractor or homeowner who installs a
private sewage disposal system shall fill any portion of said system and/or
cover the same with earth, cinders, gravel, sand, or any other material which
will prevent the same from being readily viewed to determine if said system
meets all requirements of the ordinance before receipt of approval by the
Health Department, the Health Department may give 15 days notice in writing to
such private sewage disposal contractor or homeowner so violating the provision
of the ordinance, to uncover such back filled or covered portions of the
system.
   (O)   At the end of such 15 days, if no approval for an extension has been
granted, and if the private sewage disposal contractor or homeowner shall not
have uncovered the private sewage disposal system, the permit is automatically
invalidated and penalty action may be taken. The health authority may elect to
have the system uncovered at the expense of the private sewage disposal
contractor or homeowner. Failure of the homeowner to pay such costs within 30
days shall result in the execution of a lien against the property.
   (P)   (1)   The use of a private sewage disposal system to serve more than
one property is prohibited except under IDPH Private Sewage Disposal Licensing
Act and Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905.20(c) general requirements individual
service.
      (2)   All components of any private sewage disposal system shall be
located on the same property as the building it serves. A recorded easement is
required to be filed for existing systems that have any component of the
private sewage disposal system located on property other that which the
building is located. This includes property that is replatted.
   (Q)   Under no circumstances shall any person maintain, allow or operate a
private sewage disposal system in such a manner that the Health Department
determines it to be an ongoing public nuisance or hazard to the public health
or safety. Repeated pumping of a septic tank or aerobic unit to prevent such a
public nuisance or hazard is not an acceptable remedy.
   (R)   A minimum 10- to 25-foot horizontal separation between all components
of the private sewage disposal system and a buried sprinkler system shall be
maintained. For specific distances to each component, see 77 Ill. Adm. Code
905, Appendix A, Illustration D.
   (S)   All subsurface seepage systems that consist of chambers or gravelless
piping shall be provided with inspection ports as design allows. A minimum of
one inspection port shall be installed on the gravelless piping or chamber
system located at a point farthest from the septic tank. It is suggested that
the inspection ports be a minimum of three inches above grade.
   (T)   A distribution box, when used, shall be constructed with a removable
lid and a minimum six- inch diameter riser for access for inspection, cleaning,
and general maintenance. It is suggested that the riser extends a minimum of
three inches above grade. During an operational, zoning, complaint, or repair
inspection if the distribution box does not have a riser, one must be provided.
   (U)   Access to the interior of the septic tank shall be provided to allow
inspection and maintenance. A minimum 12-inch diameter manhole or riser shall
be installed over the tank inlet and outlet. It is suggested that the manhole
or riser extends a minimum of three inches above grade. During an operational,
zoning, complaint, or repair if the existing septic tank does not have a riser,
one must be provided.
   (V)   Access to the tank outlet shall be provided if a filter has been
installed in the baffle. A manhole or riser shall be installed. It is suggested
that the manhole or riser extends a minimum of three inches above grade. During
an operational, zoning, complaint, or repair if the existing septic tank does
not have a riser over the outlet baffle for easy access to the filter, one must
be provided.
   (W)   A chlorine contact tank shall be provided with a minimum six-inch
riser for access for inspection, cleaning and general maintenance. It is
suggested that the riser extends a minimum of three inches above grade. During
an operational, zoning, complaint, or repair if the existing chlorine contact
tank does not have a riser one must be provided.
   (X)   Private sewage septic tanks shall have a pumping evaluation a minimum
of once every five years.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-5) (Ord. E-19-96, passed 5-29-2019; Res. E-21-42, passed
2-24-2021; Res. E-23-64, passed 4-26-2023)
§ 94.30 ISSUANCE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Health Department determines that a violation of any
provision of this chapter has occurred, the Health Department shall give notice
to the person responsible for such violation. This notice shall be in writing
and include a statement of the reasons for issuance of the notice. The notice
will allow reasonable time, as determined by the Health Department, for
performance of any act required. The notice to be served upon the person
responsible for the violation(s) will contain an outline of remedial action
which is required to effect compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   It shall not be a prerequisite to enforcement of the penalty
provisions of this chapter that the Health Department first resort to the
notice procedure set forth in this section if it is deemed a public health
threat.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-6)
§ 94.31 REVOCATION OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL CONTRACTOR AND/OR PUMPER
REGISTRATION.
   For serious or repeated violation of any of the requirements of this
chapter, the private sewage disposal system contractor and/or pumper
registration certificate may be revoked after an opportunity for a hearing has
been provided by the health authority. Prior to such action, the health
authority shall notify the contractor in writing, stating the reasons for which
the registration certificate is subject to revocation and advising that the
certificate shall be revoked at the end of five days following service of such
notice, unless a request for a hearing is filed with the health authority, by
the holder, within such five-day period. A registration certificate may be
suspended for cause pending its revocation or a hearing relative thereto where
a clear and present danger to the public health is preliminarily found to exist
by the health authority.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-7)
§ 94.32 APPROVAL OF PROPOSED SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   (A)   Any subdivision being developed which is in part within 1,320 feet of
an existing available approved municipal sewer, or if the municipality is
willing at its expense to extend the sewer line to within 1,320 feet of the
subdivision property line, shall not be developed by utilizing private sewage
disposal systems.
   (B)   A fee for the review of the proposed subdivision plat shall be made
payable to the County Health Department in the amount of $100 and an additional
$25 per lot. This fee is not returnable if the subdivision is not approved or
the request for review is withdrawn.
   (C)   The owner/developer will submit soil investigations conducted by a
certified soil classifier for determination of type of septic systems and
minimum size of lots. The size of each lot will include area for a replacement
system similar to the proposed septic system. The information on the plat must
include location of proposed septic system, future site of replacement system,
well and geothermal closed loop wells. This information must be submitted on
forms provided by the county.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-8)
§ 94.33 DESIGN; EVAPORATION BEDS.
   Evaporation beds. Effective June 22, 2019, no new evaporation beds will be
allowed; however, existing beds must meet the following requirements.
   (A)   Evaporation beds shall be located in well-drained areas that are not
subject to flooding or periodic inundation with surface water.
   (B)   Evaporation beds shall be located to reasonably minimize the
possibility of overflow discharge reaching neighboring properties.
   (C)   Evaporation beds shall not be sodded or covered with soil. The gravel
in the evaporation bed shall remain exposed to the ground surface.
   (D)   Evaporation beds shall be designed so the entire bed is completely
filled liquid prior to discharge and so designed to overflow to the ground
surface to prevent flowing back into the system.
   (E)   The gravel shall extend the full depth of the bed and to a depth of
not less than three inches beneath the bottom of the distribution line(s).
   (F)   Evaporation beds shall be a minimum of 25 feet to any property line.
   (G)   The design must provide for a trench depth that is not greater than 18
inches below the surface.
   (H)   Erosion control measures must be used to protect the integrity of the
evaporation bed.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-9) (Ord. E-19-96, passed 5-29-2019)
§ 94.34 OPERATION PERMITS FOR A SURFACE DISCHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall operate, occupy or permit occupancy of any dwelling
served by a private sewage disposal system designed for surface discharge or
have the potential for surface discharge without a valid operation permit
issued by the Health Department. A fee will be associated with the permit and
the fee schedule shall be approved by the Board of Health and shall be
deposited into the Health Department Fund.
   (B)   The fee shall be collected by the Health Department on an annual basis
with the first fee due at the time an application for an initial construction
permit, alteration or extension permit is submitted. Future fees are due
December 31 of the next calendar year. If application is submitted after June
30, fees shall be prorated and the following year’s fees are to also be paid at
that time. Property owners with a surface discharging system installed prior to
the effective date of this chapter shall be required to obtain a surface
discharge system operating permit upon notification of this Department. The fee
shall be deposited into the Health Department Fund. The fee schedule shall be
approved by the Board of Health.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-10) Penalty, see §
94.99  
§ 94.35 PORTABLE SANITATION.
   (A)    The Health Department may require portable toilets and portable
potable hand washing units (hand sanitizer alone is not sufficient and must be
equipped with potable, running water, hand soap, paper towels, and a waste
paper container) for events, gatherings or business sales when an approved
public sewer system is not available. The use of private sewage disposal
systems for events larger than what the system was originally designed for must
also have portable toilets and portable potable hand washing units.
   (B)   The Health Department shall prescribe the application process and
shall require the applicant to submit an application for a portable sanitation
permit at least five working days prior to the first operating day of the
event, gathering or vendor sale. Permits are only valid for the event dates
applied for.
   (C)   An application for permit shall be completed on forms provided for by
the Health Department and shall include the following:
      (1)   Name, address, telephone number, email and fax number (if
applicable) of the operator;
      (2)   A description of the type of gathering to be held;
      (3)   Number of people expected to attend the event. It is the
responsibility of the employer, property owner or event coordinator to acquire
a sufficient number of portable toilets and portable potable hand washing units
for the number of persons anticipated;
      (4)   Dates and times the gathering will be held;
      (5)   Name, address, telephone number, email and fax number (if
applicable) of property owner;
      (6)   Location of gathering and site plan that includes the following:
         (a)   Parking area available for patrons;
         (b)   Location and number of food stands;
         (c)   Location and number of portable toilets; and
         (d)   Location and number of portable potable hand washing units.
      (7)   Name, address and phone number of person or persons hired to
provide portable sanitation.
   (D)   Person or persons hired to provide portable sanitation must be
licensed as a portable sanitation business with all work done by certified
portable sanitation technicians or portable sanitation technician trainees.
   (E)   The portable toilets and portable hand washing units shall be serviced
at a frequency that maintains the units in a sanitary condition and free of
odors and according to the IDPH Private Sewage Disposal Code, Portable
Sanitation.
   (F)   The Health Department may conduct inspections before and/or during an
event, gathering or business sales to ensure compliance. Failure to provide
adequate portable sanitation may result in revocation of the portable
sanitation permit.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-11) (Ord. E-19-96, passed 5-29-2019)
§ 94.36 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person affected by an order or notice issued by the Health
Department in connection with the enforcement of any section of this chapter
may file, in the office of the Health Department, a written request for a
hearing before the health authority. The health authority shall hold a hearing
at a time and place designated by the Health Department within 30 days from the
date on which the written request was filed. The petitioner for the hearing
shall be notified of the time and the place of the hearing not less than five
days prior to the date on which the hearing is to be held. If as a result of
the hearing, the health authority finds that strict compliance with the order
or notice would cause undue hardship on the petitioner, and that the public
health would be adequately protected and substantial justice done by varying or
withdrawing the order or notice, the health authority may modify or withdraw
the order or notice and as a condition for such action may, whereas he or she
deems necessary, make requirements which are additional to those prescribed in
this chapter for the purpose of protecting public health. The health authority
shall render a decision within ten days after the date of the hearing which
shall be reduced to writing and placed on file in the office of the Health
Department as a matter of public record. Any person aggrieved by the decision
of the health authority may seek relief therefrom through a hearing before the
Board of Health.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the health authority rendered
as the result of a hearing held in accordance with this section may file in the
office of the Health Department a written request for a hearing at a time and
place designated by the Secretary of the Board of Health within 30 days of the
date on which the written request was filed. The petitioner for the hearing
shall be notified of the time and place of the hearing not less than five days
prior to the date on which the hearing is to held. If, as a result of facts
elicited as a result of the hearing, the Board of Health finds that strict
compliance with the decision of the health authority would cause undue hardship
on the petitioner, and that the public health would be adequately protected and
substantial justice done by granting a variance from the decision of the
administrator or acting administration, the Board of Health may grant a
variance and as a condition of such variance may, where it deems necessary,
make requirements which are additional to those prescribed by this chapter, all
for the purpose of properly protecting the public health. The Board of Health
will render a decision within ten days after the date of the hearing which
shall be reduced to writing and placed on file in the office of the Health
Department, and a copy thereof shall be served on the petitioner personally or
by delivery to the petitioner by certified mail.
   (C)   The hearing/meeting procedures are noted below:
      (1)   The public hearing/meeting procedures will be summarized for all
present by the Chairperson;
      (2)   The Chairperson will announce the subject of each public hearing/
meeting, as advertised;
      (3)   In order to conduct the hearing/meeting within a reasonable time
and to keep the subject at hand, we ask that the following rules be observed:
         (a)   Following the staff presentation the person(s) requesting to
comment will be called; and
         (b)   Each person making a statement will be asked to complete the
sign-in sheet prior to the meeting. When your name is called during the
hearing/meeting process, please state your name and address for the record.
   (D)   (1)   Please refrain from repeating what has been said before you and
please do not involve personalities.
      (2)   Be as factual as possible.
      (3)   If there are numerous people in the audience who would like to
participate on the issue, and it is known that all represent the same opinion,
it is advised that a spokesman be selected to speak for the entire group. A
spokesman will thus have the opportunity of speaking for a reasonable length of
time, and of presenting a complete case. If this arrangement cannot be made, it
may be necessary for the Chairperson to restrict each speaker to a limited
amount of time.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-12)
CLOSED LOOP WELL SYSTEM
§ 94.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLOSED LOOP WELL. A sealed, water-tight loop of buried pipe outside of a
building foundation, intended to recirculate a liquid solution through a heat
exchanger but is limited to the construction of the borehole, piping in the
borehole, beat exchange fluid, and the grouting of the borehole and does not
include the piping and appurtenances used in any other capacity. This includes,
but is not limited to, vertical loop, horizontal loop, and body of water loop
systems. CLOSED LOOP WELL does not include any horizontal closed loop well
systems where grouting is not necessary by law or standard industry practice.
   CLOSED LOOP WELL CONTRACTOR. Any person who installs closed loop wells for
another person. CLOSED LOOP WELL CONTRACTOR does not include the employee of a
closed loop contractor.
   DEPARTMENT. Tazewell County Health Department
   FOOD GRADE PROPYLENE GLYCOL. A coolant added to a closed loop well system
which will allow the reduction of setbacks between the closed loop well system
and a water well. The product container shall be labeled “Propylene Glycol USP”
or equivalent. Any product not containing the letters “USP” will not be
acceptable for this use, unless vendor documentation is produced to demonstrate
equivalency.
   HORIZONTAL CLOSED LOOP WELL SYSTEMS. Any open cut excavation where a water-
tight loop of pipe is buried outside of a building foundation that is intended
to re-circulate a liquid solution through a heat exchanger.
   THERMAL GROUT. A state’s Department of Public Health approved grout
specifically developed to enhance the heat transfer in a closed loop well. The
state’s Department of Public Health will maintain a list of approved closed
loop well grouts on its website.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 9-1)
§ 94.46 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   This subchapter shall adopt by reference and shall be interpreted and
enforced in accordance with provisions set forth in the current, unabridged
form of the state’s Department of Public Health, Water Well Construction Code
found at 415 ILCS 30/1 et seq., the Water Well Construction Code found at 77
Ill. Adm. Code 920, the state’s Water Well Pump Installation Code found at 415
ILCS 35/1 et seq., the Water Well Pump Installation Code found at 77 Ill. Adm.
Code 925 and any subsequent amendments or revisions thereto.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 9-2)
§ 94.47 INSPECTION REQUIREMENT.
   A closed loop well system shall not be placed into operation until the
closed loop well system has been inspected by the Department to verify
compliance with this subchapter and until written approval has been issued by
the Department.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 9-3)
§ 94.48 EXEMPTION.
   Closed loop well systems installed within the corporate limits of a
municipality shall be exempt from the inspection requirement of this
subchapter, provided the municipality has a closed loop well system inspection
process in place.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 9-4)
§ 94.49 SETBACK DISTANCES.
   All closed loop well systems must meet the minimum location requirements as
set forth in the state’s Department of Public Health Water Well Construction
Code § 920.180, being 77 Ill. Adm. Code 920.180 subject to penalties as set
forth in §
94.99(D). If any of location requirements cannot be met, a variance may be
applied for in accordance with the state’s Department of Public Health Water
Well Construction Code § 920.200(h), being 77 Ill. Adm. Code 920.200(h) and/or
§
94.33.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 9-5)
§ 94.50 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   No closed loop well system shall be constructed or modified in the
county, except in accordance with these regulations, and it shall be unlawful
to proceed with the construction or modification or sealing of a closed loop
well system without first obtaining a permit from the Department.
   (B)   Application for permit to construct, modify, or seal a closed loop
well system shall be in writing and on such forms provided by the Department.
The closed loop well system contractor shall sign every permit application.
   (C)   The application to construct or modify a closed loop well system shall
be accompanied by a plan and drawing of the proposed construction or
modification showing the lot size and location of property lines and distances
from closed loop well construction to the location of all existing structures,
wells, septic tanks, seepage fields, secondary sewage treatment units,
cesspools, privies, sewers, lakes, ponds, or streams on the applicant’s
property and on neighboring properties, if they are within 200 feet of the
proposed closed loop well system(s).
   (D)   The application shall include a borehole layout. The borehole layout
shall include borehole depth, grouting material, placement procedure, and
diameter of the heat exchange equipment that is to be grouted into the
borehole. The application shall identify the registered closed loop well
contractor.
   (E)   The application shall identify the type of liquid that will be pumped
through the closed loop piping if necessary to determine reduced setbacks.
   (F)   Prior to the approval of the permit application, the Board of Health,
at its discretion, may require additional information. The Department shall
have the authority, subject to constitutional limitations, to enter at
reasonable times upon private or public property, by its representatives after
identification, for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions
relating to the administration and enforcement of this subchapter and the
state’s Water Well Construction Code, being 77 Ill. Adm. Code 920 and/or
inspect the property and neighboring properties.
   (G) After an application to construct a closed loop well system has been
reviewed and approved, a notice to proceed shall be issued to the registered
closed loop well contractor. After the application is approved and issued, no
modifications shall be made without reapplying to the Department. No
construction of a closed loop well system shall commence prior to approval of
the application by the Department.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 9-6) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.51 PERMIT FEE.
   Each application to construct or modify a closed loop well system shall be
accompanied by a fee payable to the Department of $100 for the first ten closed
loop well boreholes drilled and $10 for each additional borehole drilled. Each
application for the sealing of the closed loop well system shall be accompanied
by a fee payable to the Department of $100. This fee shall not be refundable in
the event that an individual decides not to construct, modify, or seal the
closed loop well system. A permit shall be void within one year after date of
issuance.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 9-7)
§ 94.52 REGISTRATION OF CLOSED LOOP WELL SYSTEM CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   No person shall install a closed loop well system unless that person
has registered with the state’s Department of Public Health as a closed loop
well contractor.
   (B)   All persons who construct closed loop well systems in the county shall
be registered annually with the Board of Health. A registration fee of $50
shall accompany the registration application. The registration shall expire on
December 31 of the year of issue. The registration requirement shall not apply
to a person who constructs a closed loop well system on land which is owned or
leased by him or her and is used by him or her for farming purposes or as his
or her place of abode.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 9-8) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.53 NOTIFICATIONS.
   Any closed loop well contractor who constructs, modifies, or seals a closed
loop well must notify the County Health Department by telephone or in writing
at least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the work. Further notification
may be requested by the Department as they deem necessary to assure proper
construction practices and methods (e.g., installation of heat exchange
equipment in the borehole, grouting of the borehole and setback distances).
Information to be provided to the County Health Department includes: date
drilling/excavating started, name of closed loop well contractor, phone number
of closed loop well contractor, and permit number of closed loop well system.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 9-9)
§ 94.54 USE OF FOOD-GRADE PROPYLENE GLYCOL AS COOLANT.
   If food-grade propylene glycol is used as a coolant, a closed loop well may
be located within 25 feet of a water well. The installation of the coolant
shall be witnessed by a representative of the County Health Department.
Annually, the property owner shall certify in writing on the form prescribed by
the Board of Health that the food-grade propylene glycol coolant was not
modified in any way other than to add replacement food-grade propylene glycol
coolant. In the case of the sale of the property, the seller shall so certify
prior to the sale of the property.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 9-10)
§ 94.55 CASING.
   When permanent casing is installed, the casing and grouting shall meet the
requirements for water well casing in the state’s Water Well Construction Code,
being 77 Ill. Adm. Code 920. The outside of the casing shall be grouted prior
to the grouting of the heat exchange equipment on the inside of the casing.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 9-11)
§ 94.56 GROUTING.
   Each closed loop well shall be grouted as required in § 920.180 and 920
Table C of the state’s Water Well Construction Code, being 77 Ill. Adm. Code
920.180. Each closed loop well shall be grouted in the same day as the closed
loop well is constructed.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 9-12)
§ 94.57 SUPERSESSION BY STATE LAW.
   Should any of the provisions of this subchapter conflict with a closed loop
well system state law or code passed subsequent to this subchapter, the state
law or code shall take precedence over this subchapter.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 9-13)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
94.01 through
94.10 shall be guilty of a petty offense and subject to license revocation.
Each day’s violation constitutes a separate offense. In addition, the county
may order such violator to abate the violation or authorize the Sheriff to
clean up the property upon payment of costs by the violator.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-26)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
94.25 through
94.36 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $1,000. In addition thereto, such persons
may be enjoined from continuing such violations. Each day upon which such
violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation
   (D)   The following penalties shall apply to persons who construct closed
loop well systems upon violation of the following requirements:
      (1)   Failure to meet location requirements as required by § 920.180 of
the state’s Department of Public Health Water Well Construction Code, being 77
Ill. Adm. Code 920.180 (variance not obtained): $250;
      (2)   Failure to submit an application to construct, modify, or seal a
closed loop well system: $250;
      (3)   Failure to inform the County Health Department of the availability
of a closed loop well system installation for inspection, with the result that
the closed loop well holes are covered without being inspected: $250; and
      (4)   Failure to register with the Board of Health: $250.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 1-13, 6 TCC 9-14)
CHAPTER 95: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Applicable laws and regulations
   
95.03   Plan submission and approval
   
95.04   Enforcement provisions
   
95.05   Repeal and effective date
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
    In addition to the definitions contained in the state’s Department of
Public Health Food Service Sanitation Code and Retail Food Sanitation Code the
following general definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter.
   ADULTERATED. The condition of food if it:
      (1)   Bears or contains any poisonous or deleterious substance in a
quantity which may render it injurious to health;
      (2)   Consists in whole or in part of any filthy, putrid, or decomposed
substance, or if it is otherwise unfit for human consumption;
      (3)   Has been processed, prepared, packed or held under insanitary
conditions, whereby it may have become contaminated with filth, or whereby it
may have been rendered injurious to health; or
      (4)   Is in whole or in part of the product of a diseased animal which
has died otherwise than by slaughter.
      (5)   Its container is composed in whole or in part of any poisonous or
deleterious substance which may render the contents injurious to health.
   ANNUAL PERMIT. A food license good from January 1 of the current year
through December 31 of the current year.
   APPLICANT. Any person making application to the Board of Health for a
permit.
   APPROVED. Acceptable to the Board of Health based on its determination as to
conformance with good health practices and standards.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. Those persons designated by the Board of Health
to enforce  the provisions of this chapter.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Tazewell County Board of Health as the regulatory
authority or its authorized representatives.
   CATEGORY I FACILITY. A food service establishment that presents a high
relative risk of causing foodborne illness based on the large number of food
handling operations typically implicated in foodborne outbreaks and/or the type
of population served by the facility. CATEGORY I FACILITIES include those where
the following operations occur:
      (1)   Cooling of time/temperature control for safety (TCS) foods occurs
as part of the food handling operation at the facility;
      (2)   TCS foods are prepared hot or cold and held hot or cold for more
than 12 hours;
      (3)   TCS foods cooked and cooled are reheated for hot holding;
      (4)   Complex preparation of foods, extensive handling of raw occurs as
part of the food handling operations at the facility;
      (5)   Vacuum packaging, curing/ smoking meat to preserve it, pasteurizing
juice on site for sale; shellfish life-support tanks; sprouting seeds and
beans; and/or other forms of reduced oxygen packaging are performed at the
retail level; fermentation of foods and/or altering the pH to modify the TCS
quality of the food.
      (6)   Immunocompromised individuals are served, where these individuals
compromise the majority of the consuming population.
   CATEGORY II FACILITY. A food service establishment that presents a moderate
relative risk of causing foodborne illness based upon few food handling
operations typically implicated in foodborne illness outbreaks. CATEGORY II
FACILITIES include those where the following operations occur:
      (1)   Hot or cold foods are held at that temperature for no more than 12
hours and are restricted to same day services;
      (2)   Foods prepared from raw ingredients use only minimal assembly; or
      (3)   Foods that require complex preparation (whether canned, frozen, or
fresh prepared) are obtained from approved food processing plants, or category
I retail food service establishments.
   CATEGORY III FACILITY. A food service establishment that presents a low
relative risk of causing foodborne illness based upon few or no food handling
operations typically implicated in foodborne illness outbreaks. CATEGORY III
FACILITIES include those where the following operations occur:
      (1)   Only prepackaged foods are available or served in the facility or
dispensed from a vending machine, and any time/temperature controlled for
safety are commercially prepackaged in an approved processing plant;
      (2)   Only limited preparations of non-time/temperature controlled for
safety and beverages, such as snack foods and carbonated beverages, occurs at
the facility; or
      (3)   Only beverages (alcoholic or non-alcoholic) and/or ice are served
at the facility.
   CATEGORY III LIMITED FACILITY. A location where stand-alone vending machine
(s) dispense time/temperature controlled for safety pre-packaged food, an ice
machine(s), or a self-service ice vending kiosk(s) is in operation.
   CERTIFIED FOOD PROTECTION MANAGER. Any individual who has completed a
minimum of eight hours of Illinois Department of Public Health-approved
training for food service sanitation manager certification, inclusive of the
examination, and received a passing score on the examination set by the
certification exam provider accredited under standards developed and adopted by
the Conference for Food Protection or its successor organization, shall be
considered to be a certified food protection manager and maintains a valid
certificate.
   CODE. The administrative rules adopted by the Illinois Department of Public
Health pertaining to food establishments found at 77 IL Adm. Code 750 "Food
Service Sanitation Code.
   CORE ITEM.
      (1)   A provision in this Code that is not designated as a priority item
or a priority foundation item.
      (2)   Includes an item that usually relates to general sanitation,
operational controls, sanitation standard operating procedures (SSOPs),
facilities or structures, equipment design, or general maintenance.
   COTTAGE FOOD OPERATION. An operation conducted by a person who produces or
packages food or drink, other than foods and drinks listed as prohibited in
Public Act 100-0035 paragraph (1.5) of subsection (b), in a kitchen located in
that person's primary domestic residence or another appropriately designed and
equipped kitchen on a farm for direct sale by the owner, a family member, or
employee. Food and drink produced by a cottage food operation shall be sold
directly to consumers for their own consumption and not for resale. Sales
directly to consumers include, but are not limited to, sales at or through:
      (1)   Farmer's markets;
      (2)   Fairs, festivals, public events, or online;
      (3)   Pickup from the private home or farm of the cottage food operator,
if the pickup is not prohibited by any law of the unit of local government that
applies equally to all cottage food operations; in a municipality with a
population of 1,000,000 or more, a cottage food operator shall comply with any
law of the municipality that applies equally to all home-based businesses;
      (4)   Delivery to the customer; and
      (5)   Pickup from a third-party private property with the consent of the
third-party property holder.
   EQUIPMENT. Stoves, ovens, ranges, hoods, slicers, mixers, meat blocks,
tables, counters, refrigerators, sinks, dishwashing machines, steam tables, and
similar items other than utensils, used in the operation of a food service
establishment.
   EXEMPT. Those organizations that are not required to pay an annual retail
food service establishment permit fee.
   EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS. Includes schools, churches, veteran/military
organizations, level 1-3 food pantries and governmental taxing bodies such as
park districts, libraries, fire districts, police departments and townships.
   FARMERS MARKETS. A common facility or area where farmers gather to sell a
variety of fresh fruits and vegetables and other locally produced farm and food
products directly to consumers.    
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked, or processed edible substance, ice, beverage or
ingredient used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for human
consumption.
   FOOD HANDLER (FOOD EMPLOYEE). Any individual working with unpackaged food,
food equipment or utensils, or food contact surfaces. FOOD HANDLER does not
include unpaid volunteers in a food establishment, whether permanent or
temporary.
   FOOD PANTRY. An individual site that distributes food directly to those in
need. There are three levels of food pantries:
      Level 3: Pantries with only packaged non-TCS foods such as canned and
packaged dry goods and whole uncut produce.
      Level 2: Pantries with non-TCS food and TCS food that is frozen or
refrigerated.
      Level 1: Pantries with non-TCS food and TCS food that is frozen or
refrigerated. Minimal food handling occurs such as bulk packaged food that is
broken down and repackaged.
   GOOD RETAIL PRACTICES. Food safety management system to control basic
operational and sanitation conditions within a food establishment.
   HACCP PLAN. A written document that delineates the formal procedures for
following the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points principles developed
by The National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department.
   MISBRANDED. The presence of any written, printed, or graphic matter upon or
accompanying food or containers of food which is false or misleading.
   MULTIPLE USE SEASONAL TEMPORARY FOOD PERMIT.  The document issued by the
Board of Health that authorizes a temporary food establishment to operate for
no more six months and is valid for one or more events at the location noted on
the permit.
   OFFSITE TEMPORARY FOOD PERMIT. The document issued by the Board of Health
that  authorizes permitted county food establishments to operate off premises.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the Board of Health that authorizes a person
to operate a food establishment.
   PERMIT HOLDER.  The entity that is legally responsible for the operation of
the food establishment, such as owner, the owner's agent or other person, and
possesses a valid permit to operate the food establishment.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association or other legal
entity government or governmental subdivision or agency.
   PERSON IN CHARGE (PIC). Means the individual present at a food establishment
who is responsible for the operation at the time of inspection.
   PLAN REVIEW. An evaluation process conducted by the Board of Health to
ensure that food establishments are built or renovated according to current
Code regulations or rules; to establish an organized and efficient flow of
food; and to eliminate code violations prior to construction.
   PREMISES. The physical facility, its contents, and the contiguous land or
property under the control of the permit holder.
   PRIORITY ITEM.
      (1)   A provision in this Code whose application contributes directly to
the elimination, prevention or reduction to an acceptable level, hazards
associated with foodborne illness or injury and there is no other provision
that more directly controls the hazard.
      (2)   Includes items with a quantifiable measure to show control of
hazards such as cooking, reheating, cooling, handwashing; and
      (3)   An item that is denoted in this Code with a superscript P-P.
   PRIORITY FOUNDATION ITEM.
      (1)   A provision in this Code whose application supports, facilitates or
enables one or more priority items.
      (2)   Includes an item that requires the purposeful incorporation of
specific actions, equipment or procedures by industry management to attain
control of risk factors that contribute to foodborne illness or injury such as
personnel training, infrastructure or necessary equipment, HACCP plans,
documentation or record keeping, and labeling; and
      (3)   An item that is denoted in this Code with a superscript Pf-Pf.
   REMODEL. Altering the structure (does not include cosmetic remodel).
      (1)   EXTENSIVE REMODEL or CHANGE OF OWNER. Seventy-five percent or
greater of facility or any change in ownership 100 to 1,000 square feet - $150;
over 1,000 to 10,000 square feet - $225; over 10,000 square feet and up - $300.
      (2)   MINOR REMODEL: Less than 75% of facility 100 to 1,000 square feet -
$100; over 1,000 to 10,000 square feet - $150; over 10,000 square feet and up -
$200.
   RETAIL FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. An operation that stores, prepares,
packages, serves, vends food directly to the consumer or any place where food
is prepared and intended for, though not limited to, individual portion
service, and includes the site at which individual portions are provided. The
term includes any such place regardless of whether consumption is on or off the
premises and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food. The term
also includes delicatessen type operations that prepare foods intended for
individual portion service. The term does not include lodging facilities
serving only a continental breakfast (a continental breakfast is one limited to
only coffee, tea, and/or juice and commercial prepared sweet baked goods),
private events, private homes or a closed family function where food is
prepared or served for individual family consumption.
   SANITATION STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE (SSOP). A written document of
procedures or programs used to maintain an environment in a sanitary condition
for food processes to reduce or eliminate foodborne illness risk factors. This
also includes temperature monitoring systems and verification.
   SANITIZATION. The application of cumulative heat or chemicals on cleaned
food-contact surfaces that, when evaluated for efficacy, is sufficient to yield
a reduction of 5 logs, which is equal to a 99.999% reduction, of representative
disease microorganisms of public health importance.
   SEASONAL FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. A food service operation, that is
operated for not more than six months in a licensing period.
   SINGLE SERVICE UTENSILS. Cups, containers, lids, closures, plates, knives,
forks, spoons, stirrers, paddles, straws, napkins, wrapping materials,
toothpicks, and similar articles for one-time, one-person use and then
discarded.
   STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE (SOP). A step-by-step description of cleaning
and sanitizing procedures to reduce or eliminate hazards concerning good retail
practices.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food service establishment operates at a
fixed location for a period of time of not more than 14 consecutive days in
conjunction with a single special event or celebration.
   TEMPORARY FOOD PERMIT. Issued to any facility meeting the temporary food
service guidelines provided from the County Health Department. Category III
facilities who wish to provide food for a special event requiring food handling
operations that are not permitted under their current retail  food service
establishment permit must apply for a temporary food permit. An offsite
temporary food permit must be obtained if any food service establishment,
licensed by the Board of Health, operates off- site from where their food
service establishment permit is issued.
   TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD (formerly "potentially hazardous
food" (PHF)).
      (1)   A food that requires time/temperature control for safety (TCS) to
limit pathogenic microorganism growth or toxin formation.
      (2)   TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD includes:
         (a)   An animal food that is raw or heat-treated; a plant food that is
heat treated or consists of raw seed sprouts, cut melons, cut leafy greens, cut
tomatoes or mixtures of cut tomatoes that are not modified in a way so that
they are unable to support pathogenic microorganism growth or toxin formation,
or garlic-in-oil mixtures that are not modified in a way so that they are
unable to support pathogenic microorganism growth or toxin formation; and
         (b)   Except as specified in division (3)(d) of this definition, a
food that because of the interaction of its AW and PH values is designated as
product assessment required (PA) in Table A or B of this definition.
      (3)   TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD does not include:
         (a)   An air-cooled hard-boiled egg with shell intact, or an egg with
shell intact that is not hard-boiled, but has been pasteurized to destroy all
viable salmonellae;
         (b)   A food in an unopened hermetically sealed container that is
commercially processed to achieve and maintain commercial sterility under
conditions of non-refrigerated storage and distribution;
         (c)   A food that because of its pH or Aw value, or interaction of Aw
and pH values, is designated as a non-TCS food in Table A or B of this
definition;
         (d)   A food that is designated as product assessment required (PA) in
Table A or B of this definition and has undergone a product assessment showing
that the growth or toxin formation of pathogenic microorganisms that are
reasonably likely to occur in that food is precluded due to:
            1.   Intrinsic factors including added or natural characteristics
of the food such as preservatives, antimicrobials, humectants, acidulants, or
nutrients,
            2.   Extrinsic factors including environmental or operational
factors that affect the food such as packaging, modified atmosphere such as
reduced oxygen packaging, shelf life and use, or temperature range of storage
and use, or
            3.   A combination of intrinsic and extrinsic factors; or
         (e)   A food that does not support the growth or toxin formation of
pathogenic microorganisms in accordance with one of the divisions (3)(a) - (3)
(d) of this definition even though the food may contain a pathogenic
microorganism or chemical or physical contaminant at a level sufficient to
cause illness or injury.
   UTENSIL. Any implement used in the storage, preparation, transportation or
service of food.
   VARIANCE. A written document issued by the Board of Health that authorizes a
modification or waiver of one or more requirements of the Code.
   WHOLESOME. In sound condition, clean, free from contamination and otherwise
suitable for use as human food.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 3-1) (Res. E-20-49, passed 5-27-2020; Res. E-20-73, passed
7-29-2020; Res. E-22-95, passed 9-28-2022; Res. E-24-73, passed 7-31-2024)
§ 95.02 APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   The administrative rules adopted by the state’s Department of Public Health
pertaining to food establishments and retail food stores found at 77 Ill. Adm.
Code 750 (Food Service Sanitation Code) and 77 Ill. Adm. Code 760 (Retail Food
Store Sanitation Code) and all subsequent amendments are hereby adopted by
reference. The Board of Health is authorized to adopt rules to carry out the
purpose of this chapter. Three certified copies of each shall be on file in the
office of the County Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 3-2) (Res. E-20-49, passed 5-27-2020; Res. E-20-73, passed
7-29-2020)
§ 95.03 PLAN SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)    When a retail food service establishment is constructed or the areas
in which food is prepared and stored are extensively remodeled, or an existing
structure is converted for use as a food service establishment, or changes
ownership the plans and specifications for such construction, remodeling, or
alteration shall be submitted to the Board of Health in a manner prescribed by
the Board of Health for approval before such work has begun. When an existing
retail food service establishment changes ownership, a new permit will be
required and plans, and specifications submitted. The plans and specifications
shall indicate the proposed layout, arrangement, mechanical plans, and
construction materials of work areas where food is prepared and stored and the
location, size, and type of equipment and facilities. A menu of food items
expected to be prepared at the establishment must be submitted including
sanitation standard operating procedures. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to require the Board of Health approval of changes in the menu.
   (B)   Whenever plans and specifications are required to be submitted to the
Board of Health, the Board of Health's authorized representative shall inspect
the retail food service establishment prior to the start of the operations, to
determine compliance with the approval plans and specifications, and with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   For a food service establishment that is required to have a HACCP plan
by the code, the plan specifications shall include:
      (1)   Food employee and supervisory training plan that addresses the food
safety issues of concern.
      (2)   Description of the product formulation and its intended use;
      (3)   Flow diagram or operational procedures for the food preparation
process indicating critical control points;
      (4)   Hazards associated with each critical control point and
preventative measures;
      (5)   Monitoring systems;
      (6)   Corrective actions plan for deviations from the critical limits;
      (7)   Record keeping procedures;
      (8)   Procedures for verification of HACCP system;
      (9)   The Board of Health shall treat as confidential in accordance with
the law information relating to trade secrets and recipe formulation.
   (D)   Prior to operating, cottage food operations must submit the full
registration form, pay the registration fee, and be approved by the regulatory
authority. The registration form must include:
      (1)   A copy of a current certified food protection manager certificate;
      (2)   A product label for each product category selected demonstrating
compliance with labeling regulations;
      (3)   Submission of a comprehensive list of all food items being made;
      (4)   Submission of a food safety plan with appropriate pH test or USDA
approved recipe for restricted items under the act; and
      (5)   If on a private water supply, a copy of water test results showing
satisfactory E.coli/coliform bacteria results.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 3-3) (Res. E-20-49, passed 5-27-2020; Res. E-20-73, passed
7-29-2020; Res. E-24-73, passed 7-31-2024)
§ 95.04 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Permits. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a retail food
service establishment within the county who does not possess a valid permit
which shall be issued annually by the Board of Health. Only a person who
complies with the requirements of this ordinance shall be entitled to receive
and retain such a permit. Permits shall not be transferable from one person and
place to another person and place. A valid permit shall be posted in
conspicuous view of the public in every food service establishment. Permits for
permanent retail food service establishment shall expire on December 31 of the
year issued. Permits for temporary retail food service establishments shall be
issued for a period not to exceed 14 consecutive days. Permits issued to
offsite temporary food permits shall be valid from the date of issue, shall
expire no later than December 31 of that calendar year, and are valid for only
the location(s) on the permit. Permits for multiple use seasonal temporary food
are valid for a six-month period and expiring no later than December 31
beginning the first day the permit is issued and are valid only for the
location on the permit.
      (1)   Issuance of permits. Any person desiring to operate a food service
establishment or renew an expired permit shall make a written application for a
permit at least one week prior to the date of opening and or expiration of
permit on forms provided by the Board of Health. Such application shall be
completed and signed by the owner or his/her representative and shall include
the following:
         (a)   The applicant's full name, address, and whether such an
applicant is an individual, firm or corporation. If a partnership, the names of
partners and their addresses;
         (b)   The full name(s), addresses, certified food protection manager
number(s), and certificate expirations date(s) of the full-time managerial
staff person(s) designated as the certified food manager(s);
         (c)   The address of the retail food service establishment;
         (d)   The billing address of the retail food service establishment;
         (e)   The type of food service;
         (f)   Whether the facility has changed its menu items or food handling
practices in the last year; and
         (g)   The appropriate fee(s).
         (h)   Such fees shall be nonrefundable and payable upon receipt of an
invoice issued by the Board of Health.
         (i)   Permit fees for permanent food facilities issued after June 30
shall be prorated.
         (j)   When satisfied that the applicable requirements of this chapter
have been met, a permit shall be issued to the applicant by the Board of
Health.
         (k)   Permits for permanent retail food service establishment shall
expire on December 31 of the year issued.
         (l)   Offsite temporary food permit applications must also include:
            1.   Proof of access to a commissary permitted by the Board of
Health;
            2.   Proof of a certified food manager;
            3.   Hours of access to the commissary permitted by the Board of
Health;
            4.   A list of all items to be prepared and served during the
course of permit;
            5.   Proof of approval from the local governing body to operate in
the location for which they have applied;
            6.   A list of all equipment to be utilized;
            7.   Dates and locations of operations; and
            8.   Hours of operation including set up and tear down.
         (m)   Multiple seasonal food permit applications must also include:
            1.   Food handler training documentation;
            2.   A list of all items to be prepared and served;
            3.   Proof of approval from the local governing body to operate in
the location for which they have applied;
            4.   A list of all equipment to be utilized;
            5.   Dates and locations of operations; and
            6.   Hours of operation including set up and tear down.
         (n)   Cottage food registrations must also:
            1.   Renew their registration annually prior to operating and pay
the registration fee. Registration fee is non-refundable once the cottage food
application review process commences;
            2.   Reapply if the physical location of the cottage food operation
changes; and
            3.   Meet any requirements for recipe changes or updates as listed
in the public act.
      (2)   Renewal of permits. Whenever the review of the inspections for the
previous year reveals repeated priority, priority foundation or core items, the
permit may not be issued and the Board of Health shall notify the applicant
immediately thereof. Such notice shall state the reasons for not renewing the
permit. Such notice shall also state that an opportunity for a hearing shall be
provided for the applicant at a time and place designated by the Board of
Health. Such a hearing shall be scheduled not later than ten days from the date
of notice. The notice referred to in this paragraph shall be delivered to the
applicant in person by the Board of Health or may be sent by registered mail,
return receipt requested. A permit, which has expired, shall be removed from
the establishment by the Board of Health.
      (3)   Food permit fees. The annual fees for food permits shall be:
Food permits (initial and renewal):                                                
   Category I food permit                                                      $350
   Category II food permit                                                     $250
   Category III food permit                                                    $150
   Category III limited permit fee for stand-alone ice machine(s), ice vending $75
kiosk(s), or TCS food vending machine(s)
Seasonal food permit fees:
   Category I food permit                                                      $175
   Category II food permit                                                     $125
   Category III food permit                                                    $75
Plan review fees (new):
   Category I food permit                                                      $400
   Category II food permit                                                     $400
   Category III food permit                                                    $400
   Category III limited plan review fee for first new stand-alone ice machine, $100
ice vending kiosk, or TCS food vending machine
   Category III limited plan review fee for each additional stand-alone ice
machine, ice vending kiosk, or TCS food vending machine to a current Category III $25
limited permit holder
Plan review (remodel and change of owner):
   Category I food permit                                                      $100 -
                                                                                  $300
   Category II food permit                                                     $100 -
                                                                                  $300
   Category III food permit                                                    $100 -
                                                                                  $300
Temporary food permit fees:
                                                                                  $20
   Within five working days or more notice                                     per
                                                                                  event
                                                                                  $30
   With less than five working day notice                                      per
                                                                                  event
                                                                                  $75
   With less than five working days notice the second time or beyond           per
                                                                                  event
                                                                                  $40
On-site/day of event                                                              per
                                                                                  event
                                                                                  $100
On-site/day of event the second time                                              per
                                                                                  event
                                                                                  $18
Multiple pre-pay                                                                  per
                                                                                  event
Off-site temporary food permits                                                   $50
                                                                                  $10
Modification to offsite temporary food permit locations                           per
                                                                                  site
                                                                                  change
Multiple use seasonal temporary food permits                                      $75
Cottage food registration and renewal                                             $30
Cottage food operation foodborne illness investigation fee: once allowed under
the statute which governs cottage food operations, a cottage food foodborne
illness or complaint investigation will be assessed to the cottage food operator
at the health authority’s staff hourly rates not to exceed $250 per
investigation. An investigation is each separate incident requiring an
investigation.
 
      (4)   Penalty fees. Penalty fees for late renewal shall be assessed as
follows:
Both Exempt and Non-Exempt
Both Exempt and Non-Exempt
Late fees (beginning January 1 to January 10)
   Food permit late fee                       $100
Late fees (beginning January 11 to January 31):
   Food permit late fee                       $100
   Plus per day surcharge                     $5 per day
Late fees (on February 1)
   Food permit terminated                     License holder must re-apply
   For new food permit (a plan review will be $400
required)
   Late fees will apply
 
      (5)   Suspension of permits.
         (a)   Permits may be suspended by the Board of Health for failure of
the permit holder to comply with the requirements of this chapter. A permit
holder or operator shall be notified in writing that the permit is, upon
service of the notice, immediately suspended and that an opportunity for a
hearing will be provided if a written request for a hearing is filed with the
Board of Health by the permit holder.
         (b)   Upon suspension of the permit, the permit shall be removed from
the establishment by the Board of Health and returned to the Health Department.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, whenever the Board of
Health finds unsanitary or other conditions in the operation of a retail food
service establishment or retail food service store which, in its judgment,
constitutes a substantial hazard to the public health, the Board of Health may
without warning, notice, or hearing, issue a written notice to the permit
holder or operator citing such condition, specifying the corrective action to
be taken, and specifying the time period within such action shall be taken and
if operations as a retail food service establishment or retail food service
store are to be immediately discontinued. Any person to whom such an order is
issued shall comply immediately therewith, but upon written petition to the
Board of Health shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible.
      (6)   Reinstatement of suspended permits. Any person whose permit has
been suspended may at any time make application for a reinspection for the
purpose of reinstatement of the permit. Within ten days following the receipt
of written request, including a statement signed by the applicant that in his
or her opinion the conditions causing suspension of the permit has been
corrected, the Board of Health shall make a reinspection. If the applicant is
complying with the requirements of this chapter, the permit shall be
reinstated.
      (7)   Revocation of permits. For critical or repeated violations of any
of the requirements of this chapter, or for interference with the Board of
Health in the performance of its duties, the permit may be permanently revoked
after an opportunity for a hearing has been provided by the Board of Health.
Prior to such action, the Board of Health shall notify the permit holder in
writing, stating the reasons for which the permit is subject to revocation and
advising that the permit shall be permanently revoked at the end of five days
following service of such notice, unless a request for a hearing is filed with
the Board of Health, by the permit holder, within such five-day period. A
permit may be suspended for a cause pending its revocation or a hearing
relative thereto.
      (8)   Hearing. The hearings provided for in this chapter shall be
conducted by the Board of Health at a time and place designated by it. Any oral
testimony given at a hearing shall be reported verbatim, and the presiding
officer shall make a provision for sufficient copies of the transcript. The
Board of Health shall make a final finding based upon the complete hearing
record and shall sustain, modify, or rescind any notice or order considered in
the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be furnished to the
holder of the permit by the Board of Health within ten days.
      (9)   Application after revocation. Whenever a revocation of a permit has
become final, the holder of the revoked permit may make a written inspection
for new permit.
   (B)   Registrations. The following food operations must register and update
their registrations annually: Cottage food operations, farmers markets and food
pantries. Any operation requesting to register as one of the above must make
written application on forms provided by the Board of Health. Such application
shall be completed and signed by the owner or his/her representative and shall
include the following information that is applicable:
      (1)   The applicant's full name, address, and whether such an applicant
is an individual, firm or corporation. If a partnership, the names of partners
and their addresses;
      (2)   The full name(s), addresses, certified food protection manager
number(s), and certificate expirations date(s) of the full-time managerial
staff person(s) designated as the certified food manager(s);
      (3)   The address of the operation;
      (4)   The type of food service;
      (5)   Whether the facility has changed its menu items or food handling
practices in the last year.
   (C)   Inspections.
      (1)   Frequency of inspections. Facilities shall be inspected at least as
often as prescribed by the following schedule.
         (a)   Category I facilities shall receive a minimum of three
inspections per year, or two inspections per year if all of the following
conditions are met:
            1.   A certified food protection manager is present at all time the
facility is in operation. (Incidental absences of the certified food protection
manager due to illness, short errands off the premises, and the like shall not
constitute a violation of this section, provided there is documentation that a
certified food protection manager was scheduled to work at that time.);
            2.   Employees involved in food operations receive a HACCP training
exercise, in-service training in food service sanitation, or attend an
educational conference or training on food safety or sanitation.
         (b)   Category II facilities shall receive a minimum of one inspection
per year.
         (c)   Category III facilities shall receive a minimum of one
inspection every two years.
         (d)   Level 1 food pantries shall receive a minimum of one routine
inspection per year. A certified food protection manager is required to be on-
site during bulk food breakdown and re-packaging.
         (e)   Level 2 food pantries shall receive a minimum of one routine
inspection per year.
         (f)   Level 3 food pantries are exempt from having an annual routine
inspection
         (g)   Farmers markets shall receive a minimum of one inspection per
year.
         (h)   Cottage food operations will be inspected upon a complaint or
disease outbreak.
         (i)   The Health Authority shall inspect offsite temporary vendors
minimum of once during their operating season.
         (j)   The Health Authority shall inspect multiple use seasonal
temporary operations a minimum of once during their operating period.
      (2)   Right-of-way. The Board of Health, after proper identification,
shall be permitted to enter at any reasonable time any food service
establishment or retail food store in the county for the purpose of making
inspections to determine compliance with this chapter. It shall be permitted to
examine the records of the establishments to obtain pertinent information
pertaining to food and supplies purchased, received, or used, persons employed,
sanitation standard operating procedures and HACCP plan.
      (3)   Refusal, notification and final request for right-of-way. If a
person denies right-of-way, the authorized representative shall inform the
person that:
         (a)   The permit holder is required to allow right-of-way to the
authorized representative as specified under this chapter.
            1.   Right-of-way is a condition of the acceptance and retention of
an annual permit to operate as specified under this chapter; and
            2.   If right-of-way is denied, an order issued by the authorized
representative, hereinafter referred to as an injunction, may be obtained
according to law; and
            3.   Make a final request for right-of-way.
         (b)   If after the authorized representative presents credentials,
explains the authority upon which right-of-way is requested, and makes a final
request for right-of-way, if the person in charge continues to refuse right-of-
way, the authorized representative shall provide details of the denial of
right-of-way on an inspection form.
         (c)   If denied right-of-way to a licensed food establishment for an
authorized purpose, and after complying with this chapter, the authorized
representative may issue or apply for an injunction in order to gain right-of-
way as provided in law. In addition, the authorized representative may seek a
temporary restraining order to cease operation until the inspection is
conducted. Regardless, the Board of Health may consider suspending the license
until an inspection is able to be conducted.
      (4)   Refusal to sign report. If a person in charge refuses to sign the
report, the authorized representative shall inform the person who declines,
that this will not affect the license holder's obligation to correct the
violation (s) noted in the inspection report within the time frames specified.
      (5)   Report of inspection. Whenever an inspection of a food service
establishment is made, the findings shall be recorded on an inspection report
form provided for this purpose, and shall furnish a copy of such inspection
report form to the permit holder or operator. Remarks from the inspection shall
reference, by section number, the section of the code or ordinance violated and
shall state the correction to be made. Upon completion of an inspection, the
Board of Health shall document priority, priority foundation, core and good
retail practices and timelines for correction. The completed inspection form is
a public document and shall be made available for the public disclosure to any
person who requests it under the Freedom of Information Act, being 5 ILCS 140/
1 et seq.
      (6)   Correction of violations. The timing and procedure for the
correction of all violations noted shall be as provided in the County Health
Department Rules.
   (D)   Issuance of notices.
      (1)   If an imminent health hazard exists, such as a complete lack of
refrigeration, no running water or sewage backup, the establishment shall
immediately cease food operations. Operations shall not be resumed until
authorized by the Board of Health.
      (2)   Timely correction. Except as specified in division (B) of this
section, a permit holder shall at the time of inspection correct a violation of
a priority item or priority foundation item of this Code and implement
corrective actions for a HACCP plan provision that is not in compliance with
its critical limit.
      (3)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the Board of Health may agree to or
specify a longer time frame, not to exceed:
         (a)   Seventy-two hours after the inspection, for the permit holder to
correct violations of a priority item; or
         (b)   Ten calendar days after the inspection, for the permit holder to
correct violations of a priority foundation item or HACCP plan deviations.
      (4)   In case of temporary establishments and multiple use temporary
operations, all violations must be corrected prior to operation. Offsite
temporary food operations shall have all violations corrected immediately. If
violations are not corrected and/or pose an imminent health hazard, the food
establishment shall immediately cease food service operations. A permit may be
suspended if the licensed Tazewell County Food operation commissary is under
enforcement of the Tazewell County enforcement procedures.
   (E)   Service of notices. Notices provided for under this section shall be
deemed to have been properly served when a copy of the inspection report form
or other notice has been delivered personally to the permit holder or person in
charge, or such notice has been sent by registered or certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the permit holder. A copy of
such notice shall be filed with the records of the Board of Health.
   (F)   Examination and condemnation of food and/or equipment.
      (1)   Food may be examined or sampled by the Board of Health as may be
necessary to determine freedom from adulteration or misbranding. The Board of
Health may, upon written notice to owner or person in charge, place a hold
order on any food which is determined or has probable cause to believe to be
unwholesome or otherwise adulterated or disbranded. Under a hold order, food
shall be permitted or be suitably stored. It shall be unlawful for any person
to move or alter a hold order notice or tag placed on food by the Board of
Health. Neither such food nor the containers thereof shall be relabeled,
repackaged or reprocessed, altered, disposed of, or destroyed without
permission of the Board of Health, except on a order by a court of competent
jurisdiction. After the owner or person in charge has had a hearing as provided
in this section, and on the basis of evidence produced at such hearing, or on
the basis of examination in the event of a written request for a hearing is not
received within ten days, the Board of Health may vacate the hold order or may,
by written order, direct the owner or person in charge of food which was placed
under the hold order to denature or destroy such food or bring it into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Such order shall be stayed if
the order is appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction within five business
days.
      (2)   Where equipment used in the preparation of food products is found
to be a public health hazard, unsafe, unsuitable for use, or unsanitary, such
equipment shall be taken out of use and a hold order (embargo) placed on said
items by the Board of Health. Such equipment will not be altered, disposed of,
or destroyed without permission of the Board of Health, except on an order by a
court of competent jurisdiction. After the owner or person in charge had a
hearing as provided in this section, and based on evidence produced at such
hearing, or on the basis of examination in the event of a written request for a
hearing is not received within ten days, the Board of Health may vacate the
hold order or may, by written order, direct the owner or person in charge of
the equipment that was placed under the hold order to destroy such equipment or
bring it into compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Such order shall
be stayed if the order is appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction within
five business days.
   (G)   Procedure when infection is suspected. When the Board of Health has
reasonable cause to suspect possibility of disease transmission from any food
service establishment employee, it shall secure a morbidity history of the
suspected employee or make any other investigation as may be indicated, and
take appropriate action. The Board of Health may require one or more of the
following measures:
      (1)   Immediate exclusion of the employee from any food handling
activities as described in the Code;
      (2)   Immediate closure of the establishment concerned until, in the
opinion of the Board of Health, no further danger of disease outbreaks exists;
      (3)   Restrictions of employee’s services to some area of the
establishment where there will be no danger of transmitting the disease; and/or
      (4)   Adequate medical and laboratory examinations of the employee or
other employees and of his or their body discharges.
   (H)   During a public health investigation, the authorized representative
may issue an order of restriction or exclusion to a suspected food employee or
the permit holder without prior warning, notice of a hearing, or a hearing if
the order:
      (1)   States the reasons for the restriction or exclusion that is
ordered;
      (2)   States the evidence that the food employee or permit holder shall
provide in order to demonstrate that the reasons for the restriction or
exclusion are eliminated;
      (3)   States that the suspected food employee or the permit holder may
request an appeal hearing by submitting a timely request as provided in law;
and
      (4)   Provides the name and address of the Board of Health representative
to whom the request for an appeal hearing may be made.
   (I)   Variances.
      (1)   The regulatory authority may grant a variance by modifying or
waiving the requirements of this Code if in the opinion of the regulatory
authority a health hazard or nuisance will not result from this variance. If a
variance is granted, the regulatory authority shall retain the information in
its records for the food establishment.
      (2)   Before a variance from a requirement of this Code is approved, the
information that shall be provided by the person requesting the variance and
retained in the regulatory authority's file on the food establishment includes:
         (a)   A statement of the proposed variance of the Code requirement
citing relevant code section numbers;
         (b)   An analysis of the rationale for how the potential public health
hazardous and nuisances addressed by the relevant Code sections will be
alternatively addressed by the proposal; and
         (c)   A HACCP plan if required as specified as it is relevant to the
variance requested.
         (d)   If the regulatory authority grants a variance, or a HACCP plan
is otherwise required, the permit holder shall:
            1.   Comply with the HACCP plans and procedures that are submitted
and approved as a basis for the modification or waiver; and
            2.   Maintain and provide to the regulatory authority, upon
request, records that demonstrate that the following are routinely employed:
               a.   Procedures for monitoring the critical control points;
               b.   Monitoring of the critical control points;
               c.   Verification of the effectiveness of the operation or
process; and
               d.   Necessary corrective actions if there is a failure at the
critical control point.
         (e)   Any person who requests a variance from the provisions of these
regulations shall have the burden of supplying the Board of Health's authorized
representative with information that demonstrates the conditions exist which
warrants the granting of a variance. All uncertainties shall be resolved in the
interest of the public's health and safety.
      (3)   The Board of Health may grant a variance if:
         (a)   Such variance is consistent with the purpose and intent of the
most current edition of the Illinois Food Service Code and its associated Acts
and Codes and this chapter; and
         (b)   It is consistent with the protection of the public health; and
         (c)   In the opinion of the regulatory authority, a health hazard or
nuisance will not result from the variance.
      (4)   A variance shall be revoked or expire if:
         (a)   In the opinion of the Board of Health the variance results in a
health hazard or nuisance; or
         (b)   There is a change of circumstances from those supporting the
variance; or
         (c)   There is a change of ownership of the retail food service
establishment.
      (5)   Any retail food service establishment for which the variance has
been denied may appeal such denial by requesting a hearing before the Board of
Health.
   (J)   Equipment standards. All new and replacement equipment shall meet or
be equivalent to applicable National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) standards or,
equivalent food equipment standards of another recognized testing agency that
tests to NSF food equipment standards. If NSF food equipment standards do not
exist for a piece of equipment, the equipment must be inspected and approved by
this Department before being placed into service.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 3-4) (Res. E-20-49, passed 5-27-2020; Res. E-20-73, passed
7-29-2020; Res. E-22-95, passed 9-28-2022; Res. E-24-73, passed 7-31-2024)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 REPEAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect within two months upon its
adoption as provided by law; and all previous versions of the county food
service sanitation ordinance, adopted by the County Board is hereby repealed.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 3-6) (Res. E-20-49, passed 5-27-2020; Res. E-20-73, passed
7-29-2020)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $500. In addition thereto, such persons may be enjoined
from continuing such violations. Each day upon which such violation occurs
shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 3-5) (Res. E-20-49, passed 5-27-2020; Res. E-20-73, passed
7-29-2020)
CHAPTER 96: HUMAN HABITATION
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Applicability
   
96.03   Exceptions
   
96.04   Conflicts
   
96.05   Compliance required
   
96.06   Definitions
   
96.07   Adoption by reference
   
96.08   Minimum standards
   
96.09   Smoke detectors
   
96.10   Carbon monoxide alarms
   
96.11   Owner responsibilities
   
96.12   Administration and enforcement
   
96.13   Designation of unfit dwellings and condemnation procedure
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide basic, uniform standards governing
the condition, occupancy, and maintenance of residential premises, and to
establish reasonable safeguards for the safety, health, and welfare of the
occupants and users thereof.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 4-1)
§ 96.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to existing and new residential premises as
follows:
   (A)   Lots, plots, or parcels of land on which residential structures,
structures of mixed occupancy, or accessory structures are located;
   (B)   Residential structures including one- and two-family dwellings,
multiple dwellings, and mobile homes;
   (C)   Residential occupancy in buildings of mixed occupancy; and
   (D)   Accessory structures accessory to residential occupancies.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 4-2)
§ 96.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to transient-type occupancies and uses
including, but limited to, nursing and convalescent homes, hotels, motels,
tourist camps, travel trailers and travel trailer parks, and other forms of
temporary housing.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 4-3)
§ 96.04 CONFLICTS.
   Where a provision of this chapter is to be found to be in conflict with a
provision of a zoning, building, electrical, plumbing, fire, safety, health,
water supply, or sewage disposal law, or ordinance or regulation adopted
pursuant thereto, or other local law, ordinance, code, or regulation, the
provision or requirement which is the more restrictive or which establishes the
higher standard shall prevail.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 4-4)
§ 96.05 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or allow another to occupy any
dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating therein, which does not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 4-5) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Approved by the local or state authority having such
administrative authority.
   APPROVED SMOKE DETECTOR OR DETECTOR. A smoke detector of the ionization or
photoelectric type, which complies with all the requirements of the rules and
regulations of the State Fire Marshal.
   APPROVED CARBON MONOXIDE ALARM OR ALARM. A carbon monoxide alarm that
complies with all the requirements of the rules and regulations of the State
Fire Marshal, bears the label of a nationally recognized testing laboratory,
and complies with the most recent standards of the Underwriters Laboratories or
the Canadian Standard Association.
   BASEMENT. A portion of the building, partly underground, but having less
than half its clear height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   BUILDING. A structure wholly or partially enclosed within exterior walls, or
within exterior or party walls, and a roof affording shelter to persons,
animals, or property.
   CELLAR. The space of a building that is partly or entirely below grade which
has more than half of its height, measured from floor to ceiling, below the
average established curb level or finished grade of the ground adjoining the
building.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH. Include his or her authorized representative.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building containing not more than one dwelling unit
occupied exclusively for residential purposes.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building containing not more than two dwelling units
occupied exclusively for residential purposes.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or suite of rooms used for human habitation, and
includes a single- family residence as well as each living unit of a multiple-
family residence and each living unit a mixed occupant building.
   EGRESS. A place or means of going out.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests: by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making
inaccessible materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying,
fumigating, trapping; or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination
methods approved by the local or state authority having such administrative
authority.
   FAMILY. A household constituting a single housekeeping unit occupied by one
or more persons.
   FINISHED GRADE. Natural surface of the ground after completion of any change
in contour abutting building or premises.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, serving, and non-consumption of food.
   HABITABLE SPACE. Space occupied by one or more persons for living, sleeping,
eating, or cooking; kitchenettes shall not be deemed to be habitable space.
(Compare definition of NON-HABITABLE SPACE.)
   MIXED OCCUPANCY. A building in which a dwelling unit is combined within the
overall structure along with a non-dwelling unit such as, but not limited to, a
place of business.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING.
      (1)   A building containing three or more dwelling units;
      (2)   A building containing living, sanitary, and sleeping facilities
occupied by one or two families and more than four lodgers residing with either
one of such families;
      (3)   A building with one or more sleeping rooms other than a one- or
two-family dwelling used or occupied by permanent or transient paying guests or
tenants;
      (4)   A building with sleeping accommodations for more than five persons
used or occupied as a club dormitory, fraternity, or sorority house, or for
similar uses; or
      (5)   A building used or occupied as a convalescent old-age or nursing
home, but not including private or public hospitals or public institutions.
   NON-HABITABLE SPACE. Space used as a kitchenette, pantry, bath, toilet,
laundry, restroom, dressing room, locker, storage room, utility room, heater
room, boiler room, closet, and other spaces for service and maintenance of the
building, and those spaces used for access and vertical travel between stories.
(Compare definition of HABITABLE SPACE.)
   OCCUPANT. Any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating in or actually having possession of a dwelling unit or a rooming unit;
except that in dwelling units a guest will not be considered an occupant.
   ORDINARY WINTER CONDITIONS. A temperature of 15 degrees above the lowest
recorded temperature in the locality for the prior ten-year period.
   OWNER. Any person who alone or jointly, or severally with others:
      (1)   Has legal title to any premise, dwelling, unit, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Has charge, care, or control of any premise, dwelling, or dwelling
unit, as OWNER or agent of the owner, or an executor, administrator, trustee,
or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any person thus representing the actual
owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this chapter and of rules
and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she
were the owner.
   PERSON. Include any individual, firm, corporation, association, or
partnership.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which is approved by the state’s Department of Public
Health or the County Health Department for drinking, culinary, and domestic
uses.
   PREMISES. A platted lot, or part thereof, or unplatted lot or parcel of land
or plot of land, either occupied or unoccupied by any dwelling or non-dwelling
structure, and includes any such building, accessory, structure, or other
structure thereon.
   PRIVACY. The existence of conditions which will permit a person or persons
to carry out an activity commenced, without interruption or interference,
either by sight or sound, by unwanted persons.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solids (except body wastes),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, and dead animals.
   REFUSE CONTAINER. A water-tight container that is constructed of metal or
other durable material impervious to rodents and that is capable of being
serviced without creating unsanitary conditions, or such other containers
approved by the appropriate authority. Openings into the container such as
covers and doors shall be tight-fitting.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes (including ashes) consisting of
either:
      (1)   Combustible wastes such as paper, plastic containers, cardboard,
yard clippings, and wood; and
      (2)   Non-combustible wastes such as tin cans, glass, and crockery.
   SAFETY. The conditions of being free from danger and hazards which may cause
accidents or disease.
   SEWAGE. Liquid waste containing animal or vegetable matter in suspension or
solution and which may include industrial wastes and liquids containing
chemicals.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished by, provided by, or under the control of the
owner, operator, or agent.
   VENTILATION. Supply and removal of air to and from a space by natural or
mechanical means.
   VENTILATION, MECHANICAL. By power-driven devices.
   VENTILATION, NATURAL. By opening to outer air through windows, skylights,
doors, louvers, or stacks with or without wind-driven devices.
   VERMIN-INFESTED. The presence within, or contiguous to, a dwelling unit or
premises of insects, rodents, vermin, or other pests as to create a potential
hazard to the health or safety of the occupants or of the public.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 4-6)
§ 96.07 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   This chapter shall adopt by reference and shall be interpreted and enforced
in accordance with provisions set forth in the current, unabridged form of
Chapter 34 of this code of ordinances, and any subsequent amendments or
revisions thereto. This chapter shall control with respect to any differences
between it and these incorporated provisions.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 4-7)
§ 96.08 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   No person shall inhabit any dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of
living, sleeping, cooking, or eating therein, unless it is clean, sanitary, fit
for human occupancy, and complies with the following requirements.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in good working
condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the
Director of Public Health.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit (except as otherwise permitted under division (D)
below) shall contain a room which affords privacy to a person within said room
and which is equipped with a flush water closet and a lavatory basin in good
condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the
Director of Public Health.
   (C)   Every dwelling unit (except as otherwise permitted under division (D)
below) shall contain a room which affords privacy to a person within said room,
a bathtub or shower in good condition and properly connected to a water and
sewer system approved by the Director of Public Health.
   (D)   The occupants of not more than two dwelling units may share a single
flush water closet, a single lavatory basin, and a single bathtub or shower if:
      (1)   Neither of the dwelling units contain more than two rooms;
provided, that, for the purpose of this division (D)(1), a kitchenette or an
efficiency kitchen with not more than 60 square feet of floor area shall not be
counted as a room;
      (2)   The habitable area of each such dwelling unit shall equal not more
than 250 square feet of floor area; and
      (3)   Such water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower shall be
in good working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system
approved by the Director of Public Health.
   (E)   Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower required
under the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C), and (D) above shall be
properly connected with both hot and cold water lines.
   (F)   Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with adequate rubbish storage
facilities of a type and location which are approved by the Director of Public
Health.
   (G)   Every dwelling unit shall have adequate garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers, type and location of which are approved by the
Health Officer. Every dwelling unit shall also have garbage removal service
acceptable to the Director of Public Health.
   (H)   Every dwelling shall have supplied water heating facilities which are
properly installed and maintained in safe and good working condition, are
properly connected with the hot water lines required under the provisions of
division (E) above, and are capable of heating water to such a temperature as
to permit an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required kitchen
sink, lavatory basin, bathtub or shower at a temperature of not less than
120°F. Such supplied water heating shall be capable of meeting the requirements
of this division (H) when the dwelling or dwelling unit heating facilities
required under the provisions of division (N) below are not in operation.
   (I)   Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by the laws of this
state and this county.
   (J)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight facing
directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area measured between stops
for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area of such room. Whenever
walls or other portions of structures are located less than three feet from the
window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such a
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever
the only window in a room is a skylight type window in the top of such room,
the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total
floor area of such room.
   (K)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which
can easily be opened, or such other device as will adequately ventilate the
room. The total of openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal
to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight type window
size as required in division (J) above, except where there is supplied some
other device affording adequate ventilation and approved by the Director of
Public Health.
   (L)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the
light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms contained in divisions
(J) and (K) above, except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet compartments equipped with a
ventilation system which is kept in continuous operation and approved by the
Director of Public Health.
   (M)   Where there is electric service available from power lines which are
not more than 300 feet away from the dwelling, every habitable room of such
dwelling shall contain at least two separate floor or wall-type electric
convenience outlets, or one such convenience outlet and one supplied ceiling-
type electric light fixture; and every water closet compartment, bathroom,
laundry room, furnace room, and public hall shall contain at least one supplied
ceiling or wall-type electric light fixture. Every such outlet and fixture
shall be properly installed, shall be maintained in good and safe working
condition, and shall be connected to the store of electric power in a safe
manner.
   (N)   Every dwelling shall have heating facilities which are properly
installed, are maintained in safe and working condition, and are capable of
safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and water closet
compartments in every dwelling unit located therein to a temperature of at
least 68°F. at a distance of three feet above floor level under ordinary
minimum winter conditions.
   (O)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling containing
five or more dwelling units shall be adequately lighted at all times. Every
public hall and stairway in structures devoted solely to dwelling occupancy and
containing not more than four dwelling units may be supplied with conveniently
located light switches controlling an adequate lighting system which may be
turned on when needed instead of full-time lighting.
   (P)   During that portion of each year when the Director of Public Health
deems it necessary for protection against mosquitoes, flies, and other insects,
every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor space shall have
supplied screens and a self-closing device; and every window or other device
with openings to outdoor space used or intended to be used for ventilation
shall likewise be supplied with screens; provided, that such screens shall not
be required in rooms located in areas of the county which are deemed by the
Director of Public Health to have so few insects as to render screens
unnecessary.
   (Q)   Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for
ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry
for rodents, shall be supplied with a screen or such other device as will
effectively prevent their entrance.
   (R)   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling, and roof shall be reasonably
weather-tight, water-tight, rodent-proof, and termite-proof; shall be capable
of affording privacy; and shall be kept in good repair.
   (S)   Every window, exterior door, and basement hatchway shall be reasonably
weather-tight, water-tight, rodent-proof, and termite-proof; and shall be kept
in sound working condition and good repair.
   (T)   Every inside and outside stair, every porch, and every appurtenance
thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting
the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon, and shall be kept in
sound working condition and good repair.
   (U)   Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition free from defects,
leaks, and obstructions.
   (V)   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor
surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious
to water and so as to permit such floor to be easily kept clean and in sanitary
condition.
   (W)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or utility which is
required under this chapter shall be so constructed or installed that it will
function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained in satisfactory
working condition.
   (X)   No owner, operator, or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment, or utility which is required under this chapter to be unreasonably
removed from or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling
occupied by him or her, except for such temporary interruption as may be
necessary while actual repairs or alterations are in process or during
temporary emergencies when discontinuance of service is approved by the
Director of Public Health.
   (Y)   Chimneys and flues shall be maintained so as to be structurally sound
and to prevent leakage of gases into the structure. Such maintenance shall
consist of clearing flue stoppages, sealing open joints, repairing masonry
where necessary, and other suitable means.
   (Z)   Ceilings and walls shall be maintained so that parts which become
loose or defective do not constitute a hazard to occupants. Such maintenance
shall consist of removing and replacing loose or defective sections.
   (AA)   Exterior walls and wall components shall be maintained so as to
prevent deterioration due to the elements and destructive insects. Such
maintenance shall consist of painting, installation, or repair of walls,
copings, and flashings, waterproofing of joints, waterproof coatings,
installation or repair of termite shields, poison treatment of soil, or other
suitable means.
   (BB)   Fuel gas piping systems shall be installed and maintained so as to
remain gas-tight, safe, and operative under conditions of use. Fuel gas piping
systems shall provide a supply of gas sufficient to meet the maximum expected
demand of the installed gas-burning appliances connected thereto.
   (CC)   Gas piping systems shall have at least one accessible means for
shutting off all gas supply and such means shall be maintained in good
operating condition. An easily accessible shutoff valve or cock shall be
provided in piping in close proximity to, and ahead of, every outlet for gas
appliances.
   (DD)   Gas services, gas meters, and gas pressure regulators shall be
located so that they are protected from damage.
   (EE)   Undiluted liquefied petroleum gas in liquid form shall not be
conveyed through piping equipment and systems in buildings. Liquefied petroleum
gas shall not be vaporized by devices utilizing open flame or open electrical
coil. Where two or more containers are installed, connection shall be arranged
so that containers can be replaced without shutting off the flow of gas to
equipment. Containers shall be designed, stored, and located so as not to be a
hazard to the premises served or to the surrounding property. Systems shall be
provided with safety devices to relieve excessive pressures and shall be
arranged so that the discharge terminates at a safe location. Systems shall
have at least one accessible means for shutting off the gas. Such means shall
be in good operating condition.
   (FF)   Where heat-producing equipment is installed on or adjacent to
combustible materials, the location, insulation, clearance, and the control of
the equipment shall be such that the temperature on the surface of the
combustible materials will not exceed a safe temperature.
   (GG)   Any mobile home used as a dwelling unit, whether located on an
individual lot or in a mobile home park, shall be equipped with a solid
foundation or skirting completely enclosing the bottom of the mobile home so
that trash and other combustible materials cannot accumulate underneath the
mobile home.
   (HH)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of floor
space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional square feet of
floor space for every additional occupant thereof, the floor space to be
calculated on the basis of total habitable room area.
   (II)   In every dwelling unit of two or more rooms, every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor space, and every room occupied for sleeping by more than one occupant
shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor space for each occupant thereof.
   (JJ)   No dwelling or dwelling unit containing two or more sleeping rooms
shall have such room arrangements that access to a bathroom or water closet
compartment intended for use by the occupants of more than one sleeping room
can be had only by going through another sleeping room; nor shall room
arrangements be such that access to a sleeping room can only be had by going
through another sleeping room or a bathroom or water closet compartment.
   (KK)   At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable room shall
have a ceiling height of at least seven feet, and the floor area of the part of
any room where the ceiling height is less than five feet shall not be
considered as part of the floor area in computing the total floor area of the
room for the purpose of determining the maximum permissible occupancy thereof.
   (LL)   No cellar space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit.
   (MM)   No basement space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit,
unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage or underground and
surface runoff water and are insulated against dampness;
      (2)   The total of window area in each room is equal to at least the
minimum window area sizes;
      (3)   Such required minimum window area is located entirely above the
grade of the ground adjoining such window area; and
      (4)   The total of openable window area in each room is equal to at least
the minimum as required under division (K) above, except where there is
supplied some other device affording adequate ventilation and approved by the
Director of Public Health.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 4-8) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09 SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall be equipped with at least one approved smoke
detector in an operating condition within 15 feet of every room used for
sleeping purposes. The detector shall be installed on the ceiling and at least
six inches from any wall, or on a wall located between four and six inches from
the ceiling.
   (B)   Every single family residence shall have at least one approved smoke
detector installed on every story of the dwelling unit, including basements but
not including unoccupied attics. In dwelling units with split levels, a smoke
detector installed on the upper level shall suffice for the adjacent lower
level if the lower level is less than one full story below the upper level;
however, if there is an intervening door between the adjacent levels, a smoke
detector shall be installed on each level.
   (C)   Every structure which contains more than one dwelling unit, or
contains at least one dwelling unit and is a mixed use structure, shall contain
at least one approved smoke detector at the uppermost ceiling of each interior
stairwell. The detector shall be installed on the ceiling, at least six inches
from the wall, or on a wall located between four and six inches from the
ceiling.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of a structure to
supply and install all required detectors. The owner shall be responsible for
making reasonable efforts to test and maintain detectors in common stairwells
and hallways. It shall be the responsibility of a tenant to test and to provide
general maintenance for the detectors within the tenant’s dwelling unit or
rooming unit, and to notify the owner or the authorized agent of the owner in
writing of any deficiencies which the tenant cannot correct. The owner shall be
responsible for providing one tenant per dwelling unit with written information
regarding detector testing and maintenance.
      (2)   The tenant shall be responsible for replacement of any required
batteries in the smoke detectors in the tenant’s dwelling unit, except that the
owner shall ensure that such batteries are in operating condition at the time
the tenant takes possession of the dwelling unit. The tenant shall provide the
owner or the authorized agent of the owner with access to the dwelling unit to
correct any deficiencies in the smoke detector which have been reported in
writing to the owner or the authorized agent of the owner.
   (E)   The requirements of this section shall apply to any dwelling unit in
existence on July 1, 1988, beginning on that date. Except as provided in
division (F) of this section, the smoke detectors required in such dwelling
units may be either battery powered or wired into the structure’s AC power
line, and need not be interconnected.
   (F)   In the case of any dwelling unit that is newly constructed,
reconstructed, or substantially remodeled after December 31, 1987, the
requirements of this section shall apply beginning on the first day of
occupancy of the dwelling unit after such construction, reconstruction or
substantial remodeling. The smoke detectors required in such dwelling unit
shall be permanently wired into the structure’s AC power line, and if more than
one detector is required to be installed within the dwelling unit, the
detectors shall be wired so that the actuation of one detector will actuate all
the detectors in the dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 4-9) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10 CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall be equipped with at least one approved
carbon monoxide alarm in an operating condition within 15 feet of every room
used for sleeping purposes. The carbon monoxide alarm may be combined with
smoke detecting devices provided that the combined unit complies with the
respective provisions of the administrative code, reference standards, and
State Fire Marshall’s departmental rules relating to both smoke detecting
devices and carbon monoxide alarms and provided that the combined unit emits an
alarm in a manner that clearly differentiates the hazard.
   (B)   Every structure that contains more than one dwelling unit shall
contain at least one approved carbon monoxide alarm in operating condition
within 15 feet of every room used for sleeping purposes.
   (C)   (1)   It is the responsibility of the owner of a structure to supply
and install all required alarms. It is the responsibility of a tenant to test
and to provide general maintenance for the alarms within the tenant’s dwelling
unit or rooming unit, and to notify the owner or the authorized agent of the
owner in writing of any deficiencies that the tenant cannot correct. The owner
is responsible for providing one tenant per dwelling unit with written
information regarding alarm testing and maintenance.
      (2)   The tenant is responsible for replacement of any required batteries
in the carbon monoxide alarms in the tenant’s dwelling unit, except that the
owner shall ensure that the batteries are in operating condition at the time
the tenant takes possession of the dwelling unit. The tenant shall provide the
owner or the authorized agent of the owner with access to the dwelling unit to
correct any deficiencies in the carbon monoxide alarm that have been reported
in writing to the owner or the authorized agent of the owner.
   (D)   The carbon monoxide alarms required may be either battery powered,
plug-in with battery back- up, or wired into the structure’s AC power line with
secondary battery back-up.
   (E)   The following residential units shall not require carbon monoxide
detectors:
      (1)   A residential unit in a building that does not rely on combustion
of fossil fuel for heat, ventilation, or hot water; is not connected in any way
to a garage; and is not sufficiently close to any ventilated source of carbon
monoxide, as determined by the Local Building Commissioner, to receive carbon
monoxide from that source.
      (2)   A residential unit that is not sufficiently close to any source of
carbon monoxide so as to be at risk of receiving carbon monoxide from that
source, as determined by the Local Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 4-10) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.11 OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall
be responsible for maintaining, in a clean and sanitary condition, the shared
or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep in a clean and sanitary
condition that part of the dwelling unit and premises thereof which he or she
occupies and controls.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
or her rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the rubbish
containers required by §
96.07(F).
   (D)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
or her garbage and any other organic waste which might provide food for rodents
in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the garbage disposal facilities
or garbage containers required by §
96.07(G). It shall be the responsibility of the owner to supply such facilities
or containers for all dwelling units in a dwelling containing more than four
dwelling units and for all dwelling units located on premises where more than
four dwelling units share the same premises. In all other cases, it shall be
the responsibility of the occupant to furnish such facilities or containers.
Removal of the garbage from the premises shall be in an acceptable manner to
the Director of Public Health. In dwelling units numbering more than four, this
shall be the responsibility of the owner. In other units, it shall be the
responsibility of the occupant.
   (E)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for
hanging all screens and double or storm doors and windows whenever the same are
required under the provisions of this chapter, or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, except where the owner has agreed to supply such
service.
   (F)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the one infested.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever infestation
caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a rat-proof or
reasonably insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the responsibility of
the owner. Wherever the infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units
in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two
or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
   (G)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures
therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the
exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 4-11)
§ 96.12 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Director of Public Health is hereby designated the administrative
and enforcing officer. He or she is authorized and directed to make inspections
to determine the condition of the dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units, and
premises located within the county in order that he or she may perform his or
her duty of safeguarding the health and safety of the occupants of dwellings
and of the general public. For the purpose of making such inspection, the
Director of Public Health is hereby authorized to enter, examine, and survey at
all reasonable times all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units, and
premises. The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit
or the person in charge thereof shall give the Director of Public Health free
access to such dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit and its premises, at
all reasonable times for the purpose of such inspection, examination, and
survey. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling
or dwelling unit or its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, or with any lawful rule or regulation adopted
or any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Wherever the Director of Public Health determines that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision
of this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereof, he or she
shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person or persons
responsible thereof, as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
and
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent, or the occupant, as
the case may require; provided, that such notice shall be deemed to be properly
served upon such owner or agent, or upon such occupant, if a copy thereof is
served upon him or her personally; or if a copy thereof is sent by registered
mail to his or her last-known address; or if a copy thereof is posted in a
conspicuous place in or about the dwelling affected by the notice; or if he or
she is served with such notice by any other method authorized or required under
laws of this state. Such notice may contain an outline of remedial action
which, if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
with rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever the Director of Public Health finds that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health, he or she
may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such
emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he or she deems necessary
to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter,
such order shall be effective immediately.
      (2)   Any person to whom such order is directed shall comply therewith
immediately, but upon petition to the Director of Public Health, shall afforded
a hearing as soon as possible. After such hearing, depending upon the findings
as to whether the provisions of this chapter and of the rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto have been complied with, the Director of Public Health
shall continue such order in effect, or modify it, or revoke it.
   (D)   The Board of Health is hereby authorized to make, adopt, revise, and
amend reasonable rules and regulations as it deems necessary for the carrying
out of the purpose of this chapter.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 4-12)
§ 96.13 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS AND CONDEMNATION PROCEDURE.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and the procedure for the condemnation placarding of such unfit dwellings shall
be carried out in compliance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be found to have any of the
following defects shall be condemned as unfit for human habitation and shall be
so designated and placarded by the Director of Public Health:
      (1)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe,
or vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health and safety of
the occupants or of the public, if the cost of repair is greater than the value
of the property when so repaired; or
      (2)   One which lacks illumination, heating, ventilation, or sanitation
facilities adequate to protect the health and safety of the occupants or of the
public, if the cost of repair is greater than the value of the property when so
repaired.
   (B)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit for human habitation,
so designated and placarded by the Director of Public Health, shall be vacated
within a reasonable time as ordered by the Director of Public Health.
   (C)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned and placarded as
unfit for human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until
written approval is secured from, and such placarding is removed by, the
Director of Public Health. The Director of Public Health shall remove such
placarding whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and
placarding action were based have been eliminated.
   (D)   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or
dwelling unit which has been condemned as unfit for human habitation and
placarded as such, except as provided in division (C) above.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 4-14) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person willfully violating an order of the Director of Public Health,
after having such order being finalized by proper notice and hearing, and any
person otherwise violating any provision of this chapter, shall be guilty of a
petty offense and shall be fined a maximum of $1,000 for each day of said
violation.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 4-13)
CHAPTER 97: GROUND WATER PROTECTION AREA
Section
   
97.01   Title
   
97.02   Findings
   
97.03   Purpose and intent
   
97.04   Definitions
   
97.05   Establishment of setback zones
   
97.06   Applicability
   
97.07   Operating permits and permit conditions
   
97.08   Groundwater protection overlay zones
   
97.09   Regulations which apply within the minimum setback zone (Zone 1) of the
GWPA
   
97.10   Regulations which apply within the maximum setback zone (Zone 2) of the
GWPA
   
97.11   Regulations which apply within the 5-year recharge area (Zone 3) of the
GWPA
   
97.12   Unauthorized releases
   
97.13   Closure permits and permit conditions
   
97.14   Enforcement
   
97.15   Notice of violation
   
97.16   Appeals
   
97.17   Saving clause
   
97.18   Best management practices for the construction industry
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be hereinafter known as “the Groundwater Protection Area
Chapter”, may be cited as such, and will be hereinafter referred to as “this
chapter”.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-1)
§ 97.02 FINDINGS.
   The county finds that:
   (A)   The continued availability of a natural, uncontaminated supply of
water is an important and vital resource benefitting the residents of the
county;
   (B)   It is in the best interest of the present and future residents of the
county, both economically and in regard to health, that steps be taken to
reduce the risk of contamination to the water supplies; and
   (C)   Restricting the number of future potential sources of contamination to
the water supplies of the county pursuant to the guidelines established by this
chapter and the state’s Groundwater Protection Act, being 415 ILCS 55/1 et seq.
is a reasonable means by which to provide for a continued unpolluted source of
water for the residents of the county and surrounding areas.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-2)
§ 97.03 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   In the interest of securing and promoting the public health,
safety, and welfare; to preserve the quality and quantity of groundwater
resources in order to assure a safe and adequate water supply for the present
and future generations; and to protect and preserve groundwater resources
currently in use and those aquifers having a potential for future use as a
public water supply; the provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
properties located within groundwater protection areas in the county.
      (2)   This chapter establishes regulations for land uses within the
groundwater protection areas for inspection and monitoring standards for new
chemical substance sources, uniform standards for release reporting, emergency
response, chemical substance management planning, permit procedures, and
enforcement. Nothing in this chapter shall in any way limit the authority of
the state or of the United States to implement existing or new regulations for
the protection of groundwater or surface water.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of this chapter to provide a method:
      (1)   To protect the groundwater resources of the county and the
surrounding area;
      (2)   To provide a means of regulating land uses within the groundwater
protection areas; and
      (3)   To protect the county’s drinking water supply and that of the
surrounding area from potential impacts by facilities that store, handle,
treat, use, or produce substances that pose a hazard to groundwater quality.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-3)
§ 97.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as stated in this chapter, and unless a different meaning of a word
or term is clear from the context, the definition of words or terms in this
chapter shall be the same as those used in the state’s Environmental Protection
Act and the state’s Groundwater Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/14 et seq.), as
amended from time to time.
   ACT. The Illinois Environmental Protection Act.
(415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.)
   AGENCY. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(415 ILCS 5/3.105)
   AQUIFER. Saturated (with groundwater) soils and geologic materials which are
sufficiently permeable to readily yield economically useful quantities of water
to wells, springs, or streams under ordinary hydraulic gradients.
(35 Ill. Adm. Code 620.110)
   BOARD. The Illinois Pollution Control Board.
(415 ILCS 5/3.130)
   CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE. Any “extremely hazardous substance” listed in Appendix A
of 40 C.F.R. Pt. 355 that is present at a facility in an amount in excess of
its threshold planning quantity, any “hazardous substance” listed in 40 C.F.R.
§ 302.4 that is present at a facility in an amount in excess of its reportable
quantity or in excess of its threshold planning quantity if it is also an
“extremely hazardous substance”, and any petroleum including crude oil or any
fraction thereof that is present at a facility in an amount exceeding 100
pounds unless it is specifically listed as a “hazardous substance” or an
“extremely hazardous substance”. CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE does not mean any substance
to the extent it is used for personal, family, or household purposes, or to the
extent it is present in the same form as a product packaged for distribution to
and use by the general public. CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE does not mean agricultural
chemicals and petroleum utilized at a farm or farm residence for the purpose of
agricultural production.
(430 ILCS 45/3)
   CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE SOURCE OF GROUNDWATER CONTAMINATION. Hereafter referred
to as a chemical substance source, means a unit at a facility or site that
stores or accumulates more than 250 pounds or more of aggregate quantities of
chemical substances, or if in liquid form, 30 gallons or more aggregate
quantities during any calendar year.
   CONTAINMENT DEVICE. A device that is designed to contain an unauthorized
release, retain it for cleanup, and prevent released materials from penetrating
into the ground.
   COUNTY. The County of Tazewell.
   FACILITY. The buildings and all real property contiguous thereto, and the
equipment at a single location used for the conduct of business.
(430 ILCS 45/3)
   FARM RESIDENCE. Any residence on a farm owned or occupied by the farm
owners, operators, tenants, or seasonal or year-round hired workers. For
purposes of this definition, a “farm” is the land, buildings, and machinery
used in the commercial production of farm products, and “farm products” are
those plants and animals and their products which are produced or raised for
commercial purposes and include, but are not limited to, forages and sod crops,
grains and feed crops, dairy and dairy products, poultry and poultry products,
livestock, fruits, vegetables, flowers, seeds, grasses, trees, fish, honey and
other similar products, or any other plant or animal product which supplies
people with food, feed, fiber or fur.
(510 ILCS 77/10.23)
   GROUNDWATER. Underground water which occurs within the saturated zone and
geologic materials where the fluid pressure in the pore space is equal to or
greater than atmospheric pressure.
(415 ILCS 5/3.210)
   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION AREA (GWPA). The portion of an aquifer within the
minimum setback zone, maximum setback zone, or five-year capture zone of a well
or well field.
   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION AREA PERMIT.  An authorization by the county for a
person to store, handle, use, or produce a chemical substance sources within a
GWPA.
   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION COMMITTEE. A Committee appointed by the County Board
which reviews materials to determine compliance with this chapter. Said
Committee shall consist of a representative from the Planning and Zoning
Department, a representative from the Health Department, and the Inspector as
designated by the County Board.
   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONES. Zones of the GWPA designated to
provide differential levels of protection. Each GWPA is subdivided into three
groundwater protection overlay zones as described below and in §
97.18.
      (1)   ZONE 1 - MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE. A radial area of 200 or 400 feet
around a community water supply or a radial area of 200 feet around a non-
community or private potable water supply well.
      (2)   ZONE 2 - MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE. A regular or irregularly shaped area
not to exceed 1,000 feet from the well head of a community water supply, but
excluding the minimum setback zone.
      (3)   ZONE 3 - FIVE-YEAR RECHARGE AREA. The geographic area located
between a well or well field providing potable water to a community water
supply and the outer boundary of the five-year recharge area but excluding
Zones 1 and 2. Copies of these five-year delineations are on file with the
county’s Zoning Department as required by this chapter.
   NEW CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE SOURCE OF GROUNDWATER CONTAMINATION. Hereafter
referred to as a NEW CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE SOURCE, means:
      (1)   A chemical substance source which is not in existence or for which
construction has not commenced at its location as of the date the related
groundwater protection area is established by this chapter;
      (2)   A chemical substance source which expands laterally beyond the
currently permitted boundary or, if the chemical substance source is not
permitted, the boundary in existence as of the date the related groundwater
protection area is established by this chapter; or
      (3)   A chemical substance source which is part of a facility that
undergoes major reconstruction. Such reconstruction shall be deemed to have
taken place where the fixed capital cost of the new components, constructed
within a two-year period, exceed 50% of the fixed capital cost of a comparable
entirely new facility.
   NEW POTENTIAL PRIMARY SOURCE.
      (1)   (a)   A potential primary source which is not in existence or for
which construction has not commenced at its location as of the date the related
groundwater protection area is established by this chapter;
         (b)   A potential primary source which expands laterally beyond the
currently permitted boundary, or if the primary source is not permitted, the
boundary in existence as of the date the related groundwater protection area is
established by this chapter; or
         (c)   A potential primary source which is part of a facility that
undergoes major reconstruction. Such reconstruction shall be deemed to have
taken place where the fixed capital cost of the new components, constructed
within a two-year period, exceed 50% of the fixed capital cost of a comparable
entirely new facility.
(415 ILCS 5/3.345)
      (2)   Construction shall be deemed commenced when all necessary federal,
state, and local approvals have been obtained, and work at the site has been
initiated and proceeds in a reasonably continuous manner to completion.
   NEW POTENTIAL ROUTE.
      (1)   (a)   A potential route which is not in existence or for which
construction has not commenced at its location as of the date the related
groundwater protection area is established by this chapter; or
         (b)   A potential route which expands laterally beyond the currently
permitted boundary or, if the potential route is not permitted, the boundary in
existence as of the date the related groundwater protection area is established
by this chapter.
      (2)   Construction shall be deemed commenced when all necessary federal,
state, and local approvals have been obtained, and work at the site has been
initiated and proceeds in a reasonably continuous manner to completion.
(415 ILCS 5/3.50)
   NEW POTENTIAL SECONDARY SOURCE.
      (1)   (a)   A potential secondary source which is not in existence or for
which construction has not commenced at its location as of the date the related
groundwater protection area is established by this chapter;
         (b)   A potential secondary source which expands laterally beyond the
currently permitted boundary or, if the secondary source is not permitted, the
boundary in existence as of the date the related groundwater protection area is
established by this chapter, other than an expansion for handling of livestock
waste or for treating domestic wastewaters; or
         (c)   A potential secondary source which is a part of a facility that
undergoes major reconstruction. Such reconstruction shall be deemed to have
taken place where the fixed capital cost of the new components constructed
within a two-year period exceed 50% of the fixed capital cost of a comparable
entirely new facility.
      (2)   Construction shall be deemed commenced when all necessary federal,
state, and local approvals have been obtained, and work at the site has been
initiated and proceeds in a reasonably continuous manner to completion.
(415 ILCS 5/3.355)
   OPERATOR. Any person in control of, or having responsibility for, daily
operation of a facility.
   OWNER. Any person who owns a site, facility, or unit or part of a site,
facility, or unit, or who owns the land on which the site, facility, or unit is
located. Except for purposes of any financial liability imposed by this
chapter, it shall not include a person who only owns the realty on which the
site, facility, or unit is located.
   PERSON. Any person, individual, public or private corporation, firm,
association, joint venture, trust, partnership, municipality, governmental
agency, political subdivision, public officer, owner, lessee, tenant, or any
other entity whatsoever or any combination of such, jointly or severally.
   PLANNING AND ZONING DEPARTMENT. The Tazewell County Planning and Zoning
Department.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is satisfactory for drinking, culinary, and
domestic purposes meeting currently accepted water supply practices and
principles.
(415 ILCS 5/3.340)
   POTENTIAL PRIMARY SOURCE. Any unit at a facility or site not currently
subject to a removal or remedial action which:
      (1)   Is utilized for the treatment, storage, or disposal of any
hazardous or special waste not generated at the site;
      (2)   Is utilized for the disposal of municipal waste not generated at
the site, other than landscape waste and construction and demolition debris;
      (3)   Is utilized for the landfilling, land treating, surface impounding,
or piling of any hazardous or special waste that is generated on the site or at
other sites owned, controlled, or operated by the same person; or
      (4)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 75,000 pounds above
ground, or more than 7,500 pounds below ground, of any hazardous substances.
(415 ILCS 5/3.59)
   POTENTIAL ROUTE. Abandoned and improperly plugged wells of all kinds,
drainage wells, all injection wells, including closed loop heat pump wells, and
any excavation for the discovery, development, or production of stone, sand, or
gravel.
(415 ILCS 5/3.58)
   POTENTIAL SECONDARY SOURCE. Any unit at a facility or a site not currently
subject to a removal or remedial action, other than a potential primary source
which:
      (1)   Is utilized for the landfilling, land treating, or surface
impounding of waste that is generated on the site or at other sites owned,
controlled, or operated by the same person, other than livestock and landscape
waste and construction and demolition debris;
      (2)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 25,000 pounds, but not
more than 75,000 pounds above ground, or more than 2,500 pounds, but not more
than 7,500 pounds below ground, of any hazardous substances;
      (3)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 25,000 gallons above
ground or more than 500 gallons below ground of petroleum, including crude oil
or any fraction thereof which is not otherwise specifically listed or
designated as a hazardous substance;
      (4)   Stores or accumulates pesticides, fertilizers, or road oils for
purposes of commercial application or for distribution to retail sales outlets;
      (5)   Stores or accumulates at any one time more than 50,000 pounds of
any de-icing agent; or
      (6)   Is utilized for handling livestock waste or for treating domestic
wastewaters other than private sewage disposal systems, as defined in the
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, being 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
(415 ILCS 5/3.60)
   RECHARGE AREA. The area through which precipitation and surface water can
enter an aquifer.
   SATURATED ZONE. The zone in which the voids in the rock or soil are filled
with water at a pressure greater than atmospheric pressure.
   SETBACK ZONE. A geographic area designated pursuant to the act and this
chapter, containing a potable water supply well or a potential source or
potential route, having a continuous boundary, and within which certain
prohibitions or regulations are applicable in order to protect groundwaters.
(415 ILCS 5/3.450)
   SITE. Any location, place, tract of land, or facilities including, but not
limited to, buildings and improvements used for purposes subject to regulations
or control by the act or regulations thereunder. (415 ILCS 5/3.460)
   UNAUTHORIZED RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, emitting, discharging,
escaping, leaching, or disposing of a chemical substance source in a quantity
greater than one gallon from a facility into a containment device, into the
air, into groundwater, surface water, surface soils, or subsurface soils.
UNAUTHORIZED RELEASE does not include intentional withdrawals of regulated
substances for the purpose of legitimate sale, use, or disposal and discharges
permitted under federal, state, or local law.
   UNDERLYING PERMIT. The building permits, septic permits, erosion, sediment,
and stormwater control permit, entry access permit, and well permits required
by the county.
   UNIT. Any device, mechanism, equipment, or area (exclusive of land utilized
only for agricultural production).
(415 ILCS 5/515)
   WELL. Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, driven, dug, fitted, or
otherwise constructed when the intended use of such excavation is for the
location, diversion, artificial recharge, or acquisition of groundwater.
(415 ILCS 5/3.55)
   WELL FIELD. An area which contains one or more wells for obtaining a potable
water supply.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-4)
§ 97.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF SETBACK ZONES.
   (A)   Zone 1, minimum setback zone. This chapter incorporates the state’s
Environmental Protection Act § 14.2, being 415 ILCS 5/14.2, which provides for
the establishment of a 200 feet minimum setback zone for potable water supply
wells, or 400 feet for more vulnerable types of permitted or existing community
water supply wells. To facilitate the implementation of the siting prohibitions
for community water supply wells located within the jurisdiction of the
Planning and Zoning Department, a minimum setback zone (Zone 1) is hereby
adopted for each community water supply well designated in the attached Exhibit
1 (see column headed “setback”), as determined by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (B)   Zone 2, maximum setback zone. This chapter incorporates the state’s
Environmental Protection Act § 14.3, being 415 ILCS 5/14.3, which provides the
authority for any county or municipality served by a community water supply
well to adopt a maximum setback zone. Specific rules and guidelines for the
establishment of maximum setback zone protection for community water supply
wells are provided in the publication entitled Maximum Setback Zone Workbook,
Community Water Supply Groundwater Quality Protection, July 1990, available
from the Planning and Zoning Department. A maximum setback zone (Zone 2), as
designated by Exhibit 2, is hereby adopted for each community water supply well
listed in Exhibit 2.
   (C)   Zone 3, five-year recharge area. The county hereby recognizes that
certain communities have provided for groundwater modeling studies to delineate
time-of-travel recharge areas for their community water supply well(s). To
assure consistency in the quality of the modeling studies, the minimum time of
travel requirements are provided in the publication entitled, Guidance Document
for Groundwater Protection Needs Assessments, January, 1995, available from the
Planning and Zoning Department. Communities utilizing this division (C) must
provide the Planning and Zoning Department a technical completeness
determination document signed by the agency to assure that minimum standards
for delineation are met. A five-year recharge area (Zone 3) is hereby adopted
for each groundwater recharge area delineation map set forth in Exhibit 3. A
copy of each such map shall be on file with the County Planning and Zoning
Department.
   (D)   Intergovernmental agreements. Where the 1,000-foot boundary of the
maximum setback zone and/or the five-year recharge area encompasses county and
municipal boundaries, the county may enter into intergovernmental agreements
with local units of governments, including water districts, to affect a common
ordinance protecting the community water supply in question. Pursuant to formal
agreements with other responsible units of government, the county may delegate
and share permitting, inspection, and enforcement authority as specified in
such agreements.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-5)
§ 97.06 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The owners and operators of existing or new potential primary sources,
existing or new potential secondary sources, or new chemical substance sources
in a groundwater protection area (GWPA), shall comply with this chapter. This
obligation shall be joint and several.
   (B)   All new chemical substance sources within a groundwater protection
area must comply with this chapter prior to issuance of any underlying permits.
   (C)   If the County Code Enforcement Officer determines that a facility,
otherwise exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter, after review
from the Groundwater Protection Committee, has a potential to degrade
groundwater quality at least equal in degree and probability to facilities not
exempt, then the County Code Enforcement Officer may determine it to be treated
as a chemical substance source or pathway, such as any abandoned and improperly
plugged wells of all kinds, drainage wells, all injection wells, including
closed loop heat pump wells, and any excavation for the discovery, development,
or production of stone, sand, or gravel, and require that owner or operator to
comply with this chapter accordingly. Such determination shall be based upon
site-specific data and shall be eligible for appeal pursuant to §
97.16 to the County Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (D)   The following are exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   The storage and handling of chemical substances for resale in their
original unopened containers of 30 gallons or less, if in liquid form, or 250
pounds or less;
      (2)   De minimis usage of chemical substances: facilities that use,
store, or handle chemical substances in 250 pounds aggregate quantities or less
or, if in liquid form, 30 gallons or less aggregate quantities during any
calendar year;
      (3)   Single-family residences, duplexes, and apartment buildings,
provided that no home business is operated on the premises;
      (4)   Public interest emergency use and storage of chemical substances;
and
      (5)   Fueling of equipment not licensed for street use, provided that
such fueling activities occur and utilize a containment device that is designed
and maintained to prevent leakage or other violations of this chapter.
   (E)   The following are exempt from this chapter:
      (1)   Fuel tanks and fluid reservoirs attached to a private or commercial
motor vehicle and used directly in the operation of that vehicle;
      (2)   Existing heating systems using fuel oil;
      (3)   The activities of construction, repairing, or maintaining any
facility or improvement on lands within Zones 1, 2, or 3; provided, that all
contractors, subcontractors, laborers, material men, and their employees when
using, handling, storing, or producing chemical substances in Zones 1, 2, or 3
use those applicable “best management practices” set forth in §
97.18;
      (4)   Cleanups, monitoring, and/or studies undertaken under supervision
of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or other state regulatory
agency or the United States Environmental Protection Agency;
      (5)   Activities specifically regulated under 35 Ill. Adm. Code 601.615,
616, and 617 (regulations for existing and new activities within setback zones
and regulated recharge areas); 8 Ill. Adm. Code 255 and 256 (regulations for
secondary containment for agricultural pesticide and fertilizer facilities);
and 8 Ill. Adm. Code 257 (cooperative groundwater protection program for
agricultural chemical facilities within appropriate setback zones);
      (6)   If the owner of a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source, or new potential route is granted an exception by the Board
(other than land filling or land treating) pursuant to the Act, such owner
shall not be subject to this chapter to the same extent that such owner is not
subject to the Act; and
      (7)   If the owner of a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source, or new potential route is issued a certificate of minimal
hazard by the agency pursuant to the Act, such owner shall not be subject to
this chapter to the same extent that such owner is not subject to the Act.
   (F)   Petitions to exempt a new chemical substance source shall be filed in
writing with the Planning and Zoning Department. A conference may be held to
determine the need for review under §
97.16. If review is deemed necessary by the Groundwater Protection Committee,
the Committee, with agreement from the applicant, shall make arrangements with
the agency to assist in the review. A decision by the Committee will be made
within 30 days after receiving report from the agency. A fee will be assessed
to cover the administrative expenses of the Groundwater Protection Committee.
The Groundwater Protection Committee shall hear petitions to exempt a facility
from §
97.07 as follows.
      (1)   The applicant may demonstrate that the five-year recharge area(s)
map incorrectly identify the new chemical substance source as being within the
groundwater protection overlay zone(s). The burden of proof shall rest upon the
applicant to demonstrate that the facility location is not within a delineated
five-year capture zone area. The applicant shall be required to present
detailed hydrogeologic and hydrologic information to the Groundwater Appeals
Committee that the facility location is, in fact, not within a five-year
capture zone area.
      (2)   The applicant may be required to present detailed technical
information that a material(s) on the chemical substances list does not
endanger the GWPA in the event of an unauthorized release. Review of the
technical information shall be conducted by appropriate agencies of the state.
The review shall be coordinated by the Groundwater Protection Committee and may
include the use of specialized consultants. The Groundwater Protection
Committee shall base its recommendations in part on the report supplied by the
agency.
      (3)   The applicant may demonstrate that the new chemical substance
source does not fall within the five-year recharge area even though it falls
within the maximum setback zone within the county.
   (G)   Any action by the agency or Board referred to in this section shall
not be final and binding on the county under this chapter until the county has
received notice of such proposed action and has had reasonable opportunity to
present evidence concerning its interest.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-6)
§ 97.07 OPERATING PERMITS AND PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   General conditions.
      (1)   No person shall install or operate a new chemical substance source
in a GWPA without first obtaining a groundwater protection operating permit
from the Planning and Zoning Department.
      (2)   The focus of review for all permits shall be on the chemical
substances that will be stored, handled, treated, used, or produced and the
potential for these substances to degrade groundwater quality.
      (3)   All permits required pursuant to this chapter must be issued prior
to or concurrent with the issuance of permits for construction activities or
underlying permits.
      (4)   An operating permit shall not be issued for a new chemical
substance source unless adequate plans, specifications, test data, and/or other
appropriate information has been submitted by the owner and/or operator showing
that the proposed design and construction of the facility meets the intent and
provisions of this chapter and will not impact the short term, long term, or
cumulative quantity or quality of groundwater.
      (5)   The application for operating permits pursuant to this chapter
shall be made on a form provided by the county and shall be accompanied by a
fee of $200. The annual renewal fee shall be $25 and shall accompany the annual
certification statement.
      (6)   Any person who owns or operates more than one new chemical
substance source in a single zone of the (GWPA) shall have the option of
obtaining one permit for all operations if the operations at each chemical
substance source are similar and the permit requirements under this chapter are
applicable to each chemical substance source individually.
      (7)   An operating permit shall be effective for one year. Zoning shall
not issue a permit to operate a new chemical substance source until the
Groundwater Protection Committee determines that the chemical substance source
complies with the provisions of these regulations.
      (8)   The new chemical substance source owner shall apply to the county
for permit renewal at least 60 days prior to the expiration of the permit. If
an inspection of the new chemical substance source reveals noncompliance, then
the Groundwater Protection Committee must verify by a follow-up inspection that
all required corrections have been implemented before renewing the permit.
      (9)   Operating permits may be transferred to a new owner/operator of a
new chemical substance source if the new chemical substance source owner/
operator does not change any conditions of the permit, the transfer is
registered with the county within 30 days of the change in ownership, and any
necessary modifications are made to the information in the initial permit
application due to the change in ownership.
      (10)   Within 30 days of receiving an inspection report from the county,
the operating permit holder shall file with the county a plan and time schedule
to implement any required modifications to the chemical substance source or to
the monitoring plan needed to achieve compliance with the intent of this
chapter or the permit conditions. This plan and time schedule shall also
implement all of the requirements of the Groundwater Protection Committee.
   (B)   Permit applications.
      (1)   The operating permit application shall include at a minimum:
         (a)   Name, address, and phone number of owner and the operator;
         (b)   Property address, legal description, and property tax
identification number(s) of the facility including copies of all leases
pertaining to the facility;
         (c)   The names and volumes of all chemical substances which are
stored, handled, treated, used, or produced at the new chemical substance
source being permitted as specified in §
97.06;
         (d)   A detailed description of the activities conducted at the new
chemical substance source that involve the storage, handling, treatment, use,
or production of chemical substances in quantities greater than the de minimis
amounts specified in §
97.06;
         (e)   A description of the containment devices used to comply with the
requirements of this chapter;
         (f)   A chemical substances management plan as described in division
(B)(2)(b) below for the new chemical substance source;
         (g)   A description of the procedures for inspection and maintenance
of containment devices;
         (h)   A description of the method for disposal of chemical substances;
and
         (i)   Ten copies of a site plan showing the location of the chemical
substance source and its property boundaries and the locations where new
chemical substances in containers larger than five gallons or 40 pounds in size
are stored, handled, treated, used, or produced, and the location of each
containment device.
      (2)   Conditions for GWPA permits issued to new chemical substance
sources.
         (a)   Containment devices. The owner/operator of a new chemical
substance source must construct or use pre-fabricated containment devices
adequate in size to contain on-site any unauthorized release of chemical
substances from any area where these substances are either stored, handled,
treated, used, or produced. Containment devices shall prevent such substances
from penetrating into the ground. Design requirements for containment devices
include:
            1.   The containment device shall be large enough to contain 110%
of the volume of the container in cases where a single container is used to
store, handle, treat, use, or produce a chemical substance. In cases where
multiple containers are used, the containment device shall be large enough to
contain 150% of the volume of the largest container or 10% of the aggregate
volume of all containers, whichever is greater;
            2.   All containment devices shall be constructed of materials of
sufficient thickness, density, and composition to prevent structural weakening
of the containment device as a result of contact with any regulated substance.
If coatings are used to provide chemical resistance for containment devices,
they shall also be resistant to the expected abrasion and impact conditions.
Containment devices shall be capable of containing any unauthorized release for
at least the maximum anticipated period sufficient to allow detection and
removal of the release;
            3.   If the containment device is open to rainfall, then it shall
be able to accommodate the volume of precipitation that could enter the
containment device during a 24-hour, 100-year storm, in addition to the volume
of the chemical substance sources storage required in division (B)(2)(a)1.
above;
            4.   Containment devices shall be constructed so that a collection
system can be installed to accumulate, temporarily store, permit detection of
the presence of, and permit removal of any storm runoff or chemical substance;
and
            5.   Containment devices shall include monitoring procedures or
technology capable of detecting the presence of a chemical substance within 24
hours following a release.
         (b)   Chemical substance management plan.
            1.   A chemical substances management plan indicating procedures to
be followed to prevent, control, collect, and dispose of any unauthorized
release of a chemical substance shall be required as a condition of each
operating permit. If a spill prevention control plan or similar contingency
plans have been prepared in accordance with the state’s or United States
Environmental Protection Agency requirements, a chemical substance sources
management plan is not required as long as all of the chemical substances are
included in the spill prevention control plan.
            2.   The chemical substance management plan shall include:
               a.   A brief description of the manner in which the on-site
chemical substances are stored and used;
               b.   A potential release assessment and the response procedures
to be followed at the chemical substance source for notifying local emergency
response agencies; and
               c.   Any management measures that are employed to reduce the
potential for releases.
   (C)   Reporting. The permittee shall report to the Planning and Zoning
Office 15 days after any changes in a chemical substance source including:
      (1)   The storage, handling, treatment, use, or processing of new
chemical substances;
      (2)   Changes in monitoring procedures; or
      (3)   The replacement or repair of any part of a chemical substance
source that is related to the chemical substance(s).
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-7) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.08 GROUNDWATER PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONES.
   (A)   The location of groundwater protection areas in the county are defined
in Exhibits 1, 2, and 3 to this chapter. Groundwater protection area maps shall
be placed on file with the Department of Zoning and Health Department.
   (B)   In determining the location of facilities within the zones defined by
Exhibits 1, 2, and 3, the following rule shall apply.
      (1)   Chemical substance sources located wholly within a GWPA zone shall
be governed by the restriction applicable to that zone.
      (2)   Chemical substance sources having parts lying within more than one
zone of a GWPA shall be governed by the restrictions applicable to the more
restrictive zone.
      (3)   Chemical substance sources having parts lying both in and out of a
GWPA shall be governed by the restrictions applicable to the more restrictive
zone.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-8)
§ 97.09 REGULATIONS WHICH APPLY WITHIN THE MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE (ZONE 1) OF THE
GWPA.
   (A)   Prohibited uses and activities.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
97.06, no person shall place a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source, or new potential route within the minimum setback zone(s) of
any existing or permitted community water supply well in the county.
      (2)   Except as provided in §
97.06, no person shall alter or change an existing potential primary source,
potential secondary source, or potential route where the alteration or change
would result in a new potential source or route within a minimum setback zone.
   (B)   Review and approval of proposed activities.
      (1)   Prior to issuance of any underlying permit(s), all potential new
chemical substance sources locating within the minimum setback zone (Zone 1)
must be reviewed by the Groundwater Protection Committee for compliance with
this chapter, including obtaining a groundwater protection permit pursuant to
this chapter.
      (2)   No groundwater operating permit shall be issued unless a finding is
made by the Groundwater Protection Committee that the proposal will not impact
the long term, short term, or cumulative quality of the aquifer. The finding
shall be based on the present or past land use activities conducted at the
chemical substance source; chemical substances stored, handled, treated, used
or produced; and the potential for the activities or chemical substances to
degrade groundwater quality.
      (3)   New sources of sanitary sewerage (residential and non-residential)
shall, as a condition of the building permit, be required to connect to an
agency permitted central sanitary sewer system if available prior to occupancy
as required by the county’s sanitary health ordinance.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-9) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.10 REGULATIONS WHICH APPLY WITHIN THE MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE (ZONE 2) OF THE
GWPA.
   (A)   Prohibited uses and activities.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
97.06, no person shall place a new potential primary source within the maximum
setback zone(s) of any existing or permitted community water supply well in the
county.
      (2)   Except as provided in §
97.06, no person shall alter or change an existing potential primary source
where the alteration or change would result in a new potential source or route
within a maximum setback zone.
   (B)   Review and approval of proposed activities.
      (1)   All proposals for new chemical substance sources which use, store,
handle, treat, or produce a chemical substance within the maximum setback zone
(Zone 2) must be reviewed by the Groundwater Protection Committee for
compliance with this chapter, including obtaining a groundwater protection
permit pursuant to this chapter, prior to issuance of any underlying permit.
      (2)   No groundwater operating permit shall be issued unless a finding is
made by the Groundwater Protection Committee that the proposal will not impact
the long term, short term, or cumulative quality of the aquifer. The finding
shall be based on the present or past land use activities conducted at the
chemical substance source; chemical substances stored, handled, treated, used,
or produced; and the potential for the activities or chemical substances to
degrade groundwater quality.
      (3)   New sources of sanitary sewerage (residential and non-residential)
shall, as a condition of the building permit, be required to connect to an
agency permitted central sanitary sewer system prior to occupancy, if
available, as required by the county’s sanitary health ordinance.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-10) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.11 REGULATIONS WHICH APPLY WITHIN THE 5-YEAR RECHARGE AREA (ZONE 3) OF THE
GWPA.
   (A)   All proposals for new chemical substance sources within the five-year
capture zone (Zone 3) must be reviewed by the Groundwater Protection Committee
for compliance with this chapter, including obtaining a groundwater protection
permit pursuant to this chapter, prior to issuance of any underlying permit.
   (B)   No groundwater operating permit shall be issued unless a finding is
made by the Groundwater Protection Committee that the proposal will not impact
the long term, short term, or cumulative quality of the aquifer. The finding
shall be based on the present or past land use activities conducted at the
chemical substance source; chemical substances stored, handled, treated, used,
or produced; and the potential for the activities or chemical substances to
degrade groundwater quality.
   (C)   New sources of sanitary sewerage (residential and non-residential)
shall, as a condition of the building permit, be required to connect to an
agency permitted central sanitary sewer system prior to occupancy, if
available, as required by the county’s sanitary health ordinance.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-11)
§ 97.12 UNAUTHORIZED RELEASES.
   (A)   General provisions. All unauthorized releases shall be reported to the
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency according to the provisions of this
section. All unauthorized releases shall be recorded in the owner’s inspection
and maintenance log. An unauthorized release is an “unauthorized release
requiring recording” if the release is completely captured by the containment
device. If the containment device fails to contain the entire release, the
release is an “unauthorized release requiring reporting”. Reporting a release
to the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency does not exempt or preempt any
other reporting requirements under federal, state, or local laws.
   (B)   Unauthorized releases requiring recording.
      (1)   Unauthorized releases requiring recording shall be reported to the
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency within 24 hours after the release has
been or should have been detected.
      (2)   The incident report shall be accompanied by a written record
including the following information:
         (a)   The type, quantities, and concentration of chemical substance(s)
released;
         (b)   Method of cleanup;
         (c)   Method and location of disposal of the released chemical
substances, including whether a hazardous waste manifest(s) is used;
         (d)   Method of future release prevention or repair. If this involves
a change in operation, monitoring, or management, the owner must apply for a
new operating permit; and
         (e)   Chemical substance source operator’s name and telephone number.
      (3)   The Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall review the
information submitted pursuant to the report of an unauthorized release
requiring recording, shall review the operating permit, and may inspect the
chemical substance source. The Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall
either find that the containment standards of this chapter can continue to be
achieved or shall recommend the revocation of the permit to the Groundwater
Protection Committee until appropriate modifications are made to allow
compliance with the standards.
   (C)   Unauthorized releases requiring reporting.
      (1)   Unauthorized releases requiring reporting shall be verbally
reported to the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency immediately.
      (2)   A written report shall be submitted promptly thereafter containing
the following information that is known at the time of filing the report:
         (a)   List of type, quantity, and concentration of chemical substance
(s) released;
         (b)   The results of all investigations completed at that time to
determine the extent of soil or groundwater or surface water contamination
because of the release;
         (c)   Method of cleanup implemented to date, proposed cleanup actions,
and approximate cost of actions taken to date;
         (d)   Method and location of disposal of the released chemical
substance sources and any contaminated soils, groundwater, or surface water;
         (e)   Proposed method of repair or replacement of the containment
device; and
         (f)   Chemical substance source owner’s name and telephone number.
      (3)   Until cleanup is complete, the owner shall submit reports
containing the reporting required by §
97.07(C) to the Code Enforcement Officer and the Emergency Services and
Disaster Agency every month, or at a more frequent interval specified by the
Inspector.
      (4)   The Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall either find that
the containment standards of this chapter can continue to be achieved or shall
recommend the revocation of the permit until appropriate modifications are made
to allow compliance with the standards.
   (D)   Violation of permit conditions. Upon confirmation of an unauthorized
release to groundwater, the owner and operator shall be responsible for
immediately accomplishing the following:
      (1)   Locate and determine the source of the unauthorized release of the
chemical substance(s);
      (2)   Stop and prevent any further unauthorized release(s);
      (3)   Comply with the requirements for an unauthorized release(s)
requiring reporting;
      (4)   No new chemical substance(s) may be introduced at the site of the
chemical substance(s) that caused the violation; and
      (5)   If an unauthorized release creates or is expected to create an
emergency situation with respect to the drinking water supply of the county or
a public water supply well within 1,000 feet (305 meters) of the county, and if
the chemical substance source owner fails to address the unauthorized release
within 12 hours, the county or its authorized agents shall have the authority
to implement removal or remedial actions. Such actions may include, but not be
limited to, the prevention of further groundwater contamination; installation
of groundwater monitoring wells; collection and laboratory testing of water,
soil, and waste samples; and cleanup and disposal of regulated substances. The
chemical substance source owner and operator jointly and severally shall be
responsible for any costs incurred by the county or its authorized agents in
the conduct of such remedial actions including, but not limited to, all
consultant, engineering, and attorney fees.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-12)
§ 97.13 CLOSURE PERMITS AND PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall close or cause to be closed a new chemical substance
source regulated pursuant to this chapter without first obtaining a closure
permit from the Planning and Zoning Office. A permit shall not be issued to
temporarily or permanently close a chemical substance source unless adequate
plans and specifications and other appropriate information have been submitted
by the applicant showing that the proposed closure meets the intent and
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Closure permits shall be required for all chemical substance sources
that cease to store, handle, treat, use, or produce chemical substances for a
period of more than 365 days or when the owner has no intent within the next
year to store, handle, treat, use, or produce regulated substances. During the
period of time between cessation of chemical substance sources storage,
handling, treatment, use, or production, and actual completion of chemical
substance source closure, the applicable containment and monitoring
requirements of this chapter shall continue to apply.
   (C)   Prior to closure, the chemical substance source owner shall submit to
the Planning and Zoning Office a proposal describing how the owner intends to
comply with closure requirements. Owners proposing to close a chemical
substance source shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Chemical substances shall be removed from the chemical substance
source, including residual liquids, solids, or sludges to levels specified by
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   When a containment device is to be disposed of, the owner must
document to the Planning and Zoning Office that disposal has been completed in
compliance with the Act; and
      (3)   An owner of a containment device or any part of a containment
device that is destined for reuse as scrap material shall identify this reuse
to the county.
   (D)   The owner of a chemical substance source being closed shall
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Groundwater Protection Committee that no
detectable unauthorized release has occurred or that all unauthorized releases
have been cleaned up. This demonstration can be based on the ongoing leak
detection monitoring or soils sampling performed during or immediately after
closure activities.
   (E)   If an unauthorized release is determined to have occurred subsequent
to closure, the last chemical substance source owner and/or operator holding
the permit shall comply with §
97.12 and be subject to §§
97.14 and
97.99, in addition to requirements applicable under state and federal law.
   (F)   Chemical substance source closure will be accepted as complete by the
Groundwater Protection Committee upon implementation of the closure permit
conditions and compliance with all other provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   No person shall temporarily or permanently abandon a chemical
substance source in an GWPA without complying with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (H)   The application for a closure permit pursuant to this chapter shall be
made on a form provided by the county and shall be accompanied by a fee of
$200.
   (I)   Any person who owns or operates more than one chemical substance
source in a single zone of the (GWPA) shall have the option of obtaining one
permit for all simultaneous closures if the operations at each chemical
substance source are similar and the permit requirements under this chapter are
applicable to each chemical substance source individually.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-13) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The county shall be the administering agency and shall have the power
and authority to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
county shall have the right to conduct inspections of chemical substance
sources at reasonable times to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Office may revoke any permit issued pursuant
to this chapter after notice to the permittee and after affording the permittee
an opportunity to meet either in person or by telephone if it finds that the
permit holder:
      (1)   Has failed or refused to comply with any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   Has submitted false or inaccurate information in a permit
application;
      (3)   Has refused lawful inspection; or
      (4)   Has an unauthorized release and the Groundwater Protection
Committee finds that the containment standards of this chapter cannot continue
to be achieved.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-15)
§ 97.15 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever it is determined that there is a violation of this chapter, the
notice of violation issued shall:
   (A)   Be in writing and delivered to the owner or operator by regular mail;
   (B)   Be dated and signed by the authorized county agent making the
inspection;
   (C)   Specify the violation or violations; and
   (D)   Specify the length of time (not less than 72 hours) to correct the
violation after receiving the notice of violation.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-16)
§ 97.16 APPEALS.
   All appeals shall be made to the County Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (A)   Any decision by the Inspector under this chapter may be appealed to
the County Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Appeals to the County Zoning Board of Appeals take place by filing an
appeal in writing with the Planning and Zoning Department within 15 days after
receipt of a decision in writing from the Inspector. A hearing with the County
Zoning Board of Appeals will be held within 60 days of submission of the appeal
or petition.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-17)
§ 97.17 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Nothing in this chapter hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit
or proceeding pending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability
incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing, under any act
or chapter hereby repealed.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-20)
§ 97.18 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY.
   (A)   The general contractor, or if none, the property owner, shall be
responsible for assuring that each contractor or subcontractor evaluates each
site before construction is initiated to determine if any site conditions may
pose particular problems for the handling of any chemical substances. For
instance, handling chemical substance(s) in the proximity of a groundwater
protection overlay zone or water bodies may be improper.
   (B)   If any chemical substances are stored on the construction site during
the construction process, they shall be stored in a location and manner which
will minimize any possible risk of release to the environment. Any storage
container of 55 gallons, (208 liters) or 440 pounds (200 kilograms), or more,
containing chemical substance(s) shall have constructed below it an impervious
containment system constructed of materials of sufficient thickness, density,
and composition that will prevent the discharge to the land, groundwaters, or
surface water, of any pollutant which may emanate from said storage container
or containers. Each containment system shall be able to contain 150% of the
contents of all storage containers above the containment system.
   (C)   Each contractor shall familiarize himself or herself with the
manufacturer’s safety data sheet supplied with each material containing a
chemical substance sources and shall be familiar with procedures required to
contain and clean up any releases of the chemical substance. Any tools or
equipment necessary to accomplish same shall be available in case of a release.
   (D)   Upon completion of construction, all unused and waste chemical
substances and containment systems shall be removed from the construction site
by the responsible contractor, and shall be disposed of in a proper manner as
prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-Exhibits)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute
a misdemeanor and a nuisance. It shall be a separate offense for each and every
day, or portion thereof, during which any violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is committed, continued, or permitted.
   (B)   Any owner or operator who violates any provisions of this chapter
shall be subject, upon conviction in court, to a fine not to exceed $500 per
day per chemical substance source.
   (C)   In addition to any fines and penalties set forth above, the owner or
operator shall reimburse the county for all reasonable costs incurred as a
result of responding to, containing, cleaning up, or monitoring the cleaning up
and disposal of any spilled or leaked chemical substance sources including, but
not limited to, consultant, engineering, and legal fees.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 6-14)
CHAPTER 98: POLLUTION CONTROL
Section
   
98.01   Rules of construction
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Conditions to filing site approval application
   
98.04   Consent of application
   
98.05   Format of application
   
98.06   Application review procedure; County Clerk
   
98.07   Application review procedure; Pollution Control Facility Siting
Committee
   
98.08   Retention of consultants, counsel, and experts; reports and
recommendations
   
98.09   Filing written comments
   
98.10   Notice
   
98.11   Public hearing
   
98.12   Amendment of application
   
98.13   Public meeting to discuss application
   
98.14   Recommendation of Committee
   
98.15   Preliminary procedure
   
98.16   County Board decision
   
98.17   Expiration of approval
   
98.18   Appeals
   
98.19   Document repository; County Clerk
   
98.20   Other repository
   
98.21   Applications in incorporated areas of the county
   
98.22   Formation of Review Committee
   
98.23   Purpose and function of Review Committee
§ 98.01 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified herein, the terms used in this chapter
shall have the same meanings as the terms are defined and used in the
Environmental Protection Act of the state, 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq., as amended
from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are intended to be implemented in a
manner consistent with the provisions of the Act, as amended.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-1)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Environmental Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq., as it may be
amended from time to time.
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm, or partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind proposing to obtain site location approval
and IEPA permits for a pollution control facility (“PCF”) in an unincorporated
part of the county, and includes the fee owner of such site, the proposed
operator, and any other party with an interest in the site and/or PCF, such as,
but not limited to, a lessee, contract purchaser, or land trust beneficiary.
   BOARD. The Illinois Pollution Control Board.
   COMMITTEE. The Pollution Control Facility Siting Committee of the County
Board.
   COUNTY. Tazewell County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The Tazewell County Board.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Tazewell County Health Department.
   HEALTH SERVICES COMMITTEE. The Health Services Committee of the Tazewell
County Board.
   IEPA. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   PCF. A pollution control facility, as defined in the Act, and includes a new
pollution control facility as defined by the Act.
   PUBLIC HEARING. The public hearing required by § 39.2(d) of the Act,
including any continuances of said hearing.
   RECORD. All notices and documents filed by the applicant, including the
application and exhibits, all notices and documents filed by the county, the
Committee, the Health Department, or the Health Services Committee, all
documents, exhibits, reports, photographs, charts, data, testimony, including
transcripts of testimony, transcripts of proceedings, written comments, and
other items entered into evidence during the public hearing, or otherwise
properly submitted at the hearing or to the County Clerk pursuant to this
chapter, a complete transcript of the public hearing, the recommended findings
of fact and decision of the Committee, and the final resolution of the County
Board.
   REQUEST and/or APPLICATION. Refer to the term “request” contained in the
Act, and includes all exhibits attached to the application.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-2)
§ 98.03 CONDITIONS TO FILING SITE APPROVAL APPLICATION.
   No site approval application shall be considered properly filed with the
County Clerk unless:
   (A)   The application conforms with the requirements of this chapter as well
as state laws and regulations. The requirements of this chapter are intended as
minimum requirements and do not operate to limit the information that an
applicant may provide in the application; and
   (B)   The applicant has previously entered into a host community agreement
complying with the county’s waste management plan, and is in full compliance
with said agreement.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-3)
§ 98.04 CONSENT OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   In order to request siting approval for a PCF in the county, an
applicant must file an application with the County Clerk, with a minimum of 15
copies of the entire application.
   (B)   The application shall be submitted on paper, and/or such other methods
as the Committee may approve from time to time. Any documents prepared or
generated by an applicant shall be submitted in such electronic format as the
County Clerk may specify from time to time.
   (C)   The application shall:
      (1)   Conform with all statutory requirements;
      (2)   Contain sufficient details describing the proposed facility to
demonstrate compliance with all federal, state, and local requirements,
including statutes, regulations, and ordinances, and shall be accompanied by
all such items as required by this chapter;
      (3)   Contain all information in the applicant’s possession or reasonably
available to the applicant relating to or relevant to the siting criteria set
forth in § 39.2 of the Act, being 415 ILCS 5/39.2, if not otherwise provided
pursuant to §
98.05;
      (4)   Include all documents submitted to IEPA pursuant to § 39.2(c) of
the Act, being 415 ILCS 5/39.2(c);
      (5)   Contain a sworn statement by the applicant that all information
being submitted is truthful and accurate, and that all statutory requirements
for application have been met by the applicant, setting forth the actions taken
by the applicant to comply with such requirements;
      (6)   Contain an agreement by the applicant to reimburse the county for
any and all costs reasonably incurred by the county to review and act upon the
application;
      (7)   Be accompanied by a filing fee in the amount set forth in the table
below.
 
PCF Category                   Filing Fee
Incinerator                    $250,000
Landfill                       $250,000
Transfer station               $100,000
Vertical expansion of landfill $250,000
 
         (a)   Said filing fee shall be paid to the County Clerk for delivery
to the County Treasurer for deposit in a special fund.
         (b)   The fee paid hereunder and held by the Treasurer in the special
fund shall be used by the county to pay for any and all costs, expenses, and/or
fees incurred by the county in reviewing and acting upon the application
including, but not limited to, costs of site inspection, clerical processing of
the application, copying costs, space rental, Hearing Officer compensation,
court reporter expenses, transcription expenses, public notice expenses, staff
review time, Committee per diems, attorneys’ fees (including special counsel
fees), consultants (such as qualified professional engineers, planners,
appraisers, environmental consultants, experts, environmental counsel, and the
like, including testing, exhibits, testimony (if any provided by consultants
and experts), and other reasonable and relevant costs incident to the review,
consideration of, and action upon the application, the costs incident to
preparing the record for appeal, if any, and the costs of representing the
county on any appeal in the event of an appeal of the County Board decision.
         (c)   The balance of the fund, if any, remaining after all action on
the application is final, including any appeals of the county’s decision to any
agency or courts, shall be refunded to the applicant.
         (d)   The filing fee shall not be a limit on applicant’s liability
under division (C)(6) above for payment of the county’s costs, expenses, and/or
fees, and should the county incur any additional costs in excess of the
applicable filing fee for any PCF, the applicant shall bear any and all
additional costs and shall promptly pay such amounts to the county upon written
request or demand.
      (8)   Include a copy of the host community agreement; and
      (9)   Include a statement that the applicant has not filed an application
for local siting approval which is substantially the same as that contained in
the application and which was disapproved pursuant to a finding against the
applicant under any of the siting criteria set forth in § 39.2 of the Act
within the preceding two years.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-4)
§ 98.05 FORMAT OF APPLICATION.
   After setting forth the above information, the application shall have the
following format.
   (A)   This part of the application shall be divided into 12 sections
corresponding to the nine siting criteria in § 39.2 of the Act, being 415 ILCS
5/39.2, and the additional information required herein. These sections shall be
clearly marked by dividers or other suitable means. The application shall also
include appropriate design drawings, including a full size set of drawings and
a reduced set of drawings no larger than 11 inches by 17 inches.
   (B)   Additional sections may be added or included after the following
described sections, as the applicant deems necessary.
   (C)   The application shall contain at least the following information in
the respective sections:
      (1)   Section one. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed facility is necessary to accommodate the waste
needs of the area it is intended to serve. Section one shall include at least
the following:
         (a)   A definition of the intended service area for the proposed
facility, including a map of the service area boundaries;
         (b)   A calculation of the current amounts and types of waste
generated and disposed within the service area, and an estimate of the amount
of waste to be generated and disposed within the service area for the next 20
years;
         (c)   A calculation of the current amount of waste exported out of and
imported into the service area;
         (d)   A calculation of the capacity of the proposed facility, the
estimated daily volume of waste to be received, and the estimated duration of
operation at the proposed facility, in years;
         (e)   A description of the type(s) of waste to be received;
         (f)   A calculation of the permitted capacity available within the
service area;
         (g)   A list of the location of all other PCFs handling and/or
accepting the types of waste proposed to be handled and/or accepted by
applicant within the proposed service area and within 50 miles of the perimeter
of the proposed service area, providing the remaining permitted capacity of
such PCFs, the owner and operator of such PCFs, and the permit classification
of the PCFs;
         (h)   Complete documentation of the facts and reasons supporting
applicant’s assertion that the facility is necessary to accommodate the waste
needs of the proposed service area; and
         (i)   A discussion of the sources and reliability of information
contained in this section.
      (2)   Section two. The applicant shall provide sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed facility is so designed, located, and proposed to
be operated that the public health, safety, and welfare will be protected. At a
minimum, this section of the application shall contain the following
information in an order that logically addresses concerns within this section.
Section two shall include at least the following:
         (a)   A site location map(s) of the facility on a United States
Geological Survey (USGS) 7.5 minute series (topographic) quadrangle map, or
similar regional topographical map. The site location map(s) should clearly
show the facility boundary and a minimum two-mile radius, at a scale no smaller
than one inch equals 2,000 feet. If the application is for a landfill facility,
then the site location map(s) shall graphically show the following information
contained within the two-mile radius of the facility:
            1.   Any aircraft runways;
            2.   The 100-year floodplain limits, based on the most recent FEMA
map or floodplain elevation as determined by FEMA or other appropriate state
authority;
            3.   All water supply well setback zone(s) defined by §§ 14.2 and
14.3 of the Act, being 415 ILCS 5/14.2 and 14.3;
            4.   All occupied dwellings, schools, or hospitals;
            5.   All water wells; and
            6.   All municipal boundaries, county boundaries, and provide a
separate list (not on the map(s)) of all other units of local government.
         (b)   A topographic map(s) of the proposed facility and adjacent areas
(minimum 200 feet around the facility unless documentation is provided
detailing all adjacent land uses). The topographic map(s) should contain a
topographic map of the site at a scale no smaller than one inch equals 200 feet
(1" = 200'), with a minimum two-foot contour interval except in areas with
steep topography (steeper than two horizontal to one vertical) or that is
otherwise obscured from aerial photography and will not significantly impact
the design or review of the application. The topographic map should clearly
identify the data of the topographic map and the facility boundary. The
topographic map shall also include the following:
            1.   Existing utilities;
            2.   Existing tree lines;
            3.   Standing and/or surface water limits;
            4.   Existing fences;
            5.   Existing buildings;
            6.   Existing streets, highways, roads, entrances, and driveways;
            7.   Existing structures; and
            8.   Existing culverts, drainage ditches, drain tiles, and
easements for same.
         (c)   A legal description and plat of survey for the facility
boundary. If the facility is a landfill, then the application should also
provide a legal description and plat of survey for the waste boundary. The
legal descriptions shall be prepared and certified by a state-registered land
surveyor;
         (d)   Documentation verifying that the proposed site is not in
violation of any applicable location standard or restriction specified by all
applicable federal, state, and local regulations and guidelines;
         (e)   Documentation demonstrating applicant either owns the proposed
site or has legal right to develop the proposed site for the proposed PCF;
         (f)   A summary of the climatological data available for the area. The
data shall include monthly information (high, low, and averages) for
precipitation, temperature, and wind; and
         (g)   A narrative summary including drawings and figures of the
regional hydrogeologic conditions for the area. If the application is for a
landfill facility, then the regional hydrogeologic investigation shall include
the following information:
            1.   The regional hydrogeologic investigation should be established
by reviewing statewide and regional reports and maps available from the United
States Geological Survey (USGS), the Illinois State Geological Survey (ISGS),
the Illinois State Water Survey (ISWS), the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency (IEPA) and other available sources;
            2.   The available water well logs obtained from the ISGS, ISWS,
and county, along with the likely existence of additional water supply wells
based on field surveys within two miles of the facility, shall be provided
along with a location map and summary table of the known locations,
installation dates, and elevations of the water wells;
            3.   A discussion of the regional sources of groundwater typically
used in the area including a general characterization of the groundwater
quality based on regional publications;
            4.   Additional information such as boring logs, monitoring well
as-built diagrams, and other hydrogeologic data collected for other facilities
in the area can also be used to summarize the regional hydrogeologic
characterization;
            5.   A summary of the regional bedrock stratigraphy including the
approximate name, age, type, depths, and thicknesses of the bedrock units based
on regional publications. The applicant should also describe any regional
structural features near the site;
            6.   A summary of the seismic conditions and location of any known
unstable areas;
            7.   A summary of the unconsolidated deposits near the site,
including general description of the individual formations and general
characteristics including material, type, thickness and lateral extent;
            8.   If the application is for a landfill, then an initial site-
specific investigation should be performed to characterize the general geologic
and hydrogeologic character of the site in relation to regional publications.
The initial site-specific investigation shall include:
               a.   A complete copy of all available field borings performed at
the site. All new investigation borings shall be continuously sampled by a
geologist or engineer with experience in soil classification;
               b.   The borings shall be located in a pattern and spacing
sufficient to obtain data to characterize the geology and hydrogeology of the
entire site, and to adequately characterize the uppermost aquifer(s) at the
site;
               c.   Monitoring wells and/or piezometers shall be located to
sufficiently identify the hydrogeologic conditions at the site based on the
regional investigation and field observations. All monitoring wells and
piezometers shall be properly sealed, labeled, and locked. Well and piezometer
construction documentation shall be provided to the County Health Department or
appropriate agencies;
               d.   Any boring or well not to be used at the site shall be
properly abandoned with a copy of the well abandonment forms submitted to the
County Health Department or appropriate agencies; and
               e.   Other methods may be utilized to confirm or accumulate
additional information. Such methods may be used only as a supplement to, not
in lieu of, site-specific boring information. Other methods may include, but
are not limited to, geophysical well logs, geophysical surveys, aerial
photography, age dating, and test pits.
            9.   If the application is for a landfill, then the application
should provide a report summarizing the site-specific information. This report
shall also include at least the following information:
               a.   A narrative description of all drilling and field
procedures;
               b.   Location of all borings, monitoring wells, and piezometers
at the site;
               c.   All boring logs and as-built diagrams for all monitoring
wells and piezometers, along with all construction documentation and
abandonment forms;
               d.   Laboratory and/or field testing data including, but not
necessarily limited to, strength, moisture content, grain size analyses,
Atterberg limits, and hydraulic conductivity;
               e.   A narrative description of each geologic unit encountered
within the study area;
               f.   A narrative description characterizing the hydrogeological
conditions within the project site;
               g.   Drawings identifying the elevation of the top of the
uppermost aquifer and other pertinent geological units;
               h.   Drawings showing the thickness of all pertinent geologic
units;
               i.   A description of all water bearing strata and groundwater
conditions, including potentiometric map(s), groundwater flow velocities and
directions, and identification of the uppermost aquifer. Seasonal variations
should be discussed in the application based on regional information and field
observations when seasonal groundwater data is not available;
               j.   Geological cross sections of the project site showing all
water bearing strata, water elevations, and all geologic units encountered
during the investigation;
               k.   A design report that describes the physical attributes of
the proposed facility. The report shall contain narratives, calculations,
drawings, figures, and other material necessary to provide an accurate
depiction of the facility, including, but not limited to, vertical height of
site as it exists and as it would exist upon closure;
               l.   A site plan map with a scale no smaller than one inch
equals 200 feet that shows the location of all pertinent design components at
the facility;
               m.   If the application is for a landfill facility, then design
drawings necessary to adequately describe the components and systems of the
facility during construction, operation, and closure shall be provided. The
following shall be provided with the drawings:
                  (i)   All entrance locations and facility access
restrictions;
                  (ii)   The ancillary facility locations (scale, scalehouse,
office building, maintenance area, and/or parking areas);
                  (iii)   The proposed mass excavation grades (or bottom of
landfill) for general construction purposes;
                  (iv)   The conceptual phasing of construction;
                  (v)   The location of the leachate collection system and
collection point;
                  (vi)   The final grading plan;
                  (vii)   The typical liner system detail;
                  (viii)   The typical final cover system detail; and
                  (ix)   Typical cross sections of the landfill.
               n.   If the application is for a landfill facility, then a
narrative description shall be provided which describes the following design
components:
                  (i)   Liner system requirements;
                  (ii)   Leachate collection system and management plan for
storage and disposal;
                  (iii)   Final cover system; and
                  (iv)   Landfill gas monitoring system and conceptual
management system.
               o.   If the application is for an incinerator facility, then at
least the following information and/or documentation shall be provided:
                  (i)   Plans and specifications for the incinerator,
including, but not limited to, the design criteria for the incinerator, plans
and specifications for any and all air pollution control equipment, expected
life and deterioration rate of the emission unit and pollution control
equipment, and type, size, efficiency, and specifications of the combustion
process (including engineering drawings, plans, and specifications certified to
by a registered state professional engineer);
                  (ii)   Information and date regarding the incineration and
pollution control processes involved, quantities and types of raw materials to
be used in the processes, quantities, types, and rates of wastes, including
emissions, generated and/or emitted from the processes including, but not
limited to, controlled and uncontrolled air contaminant emissions;
                  (iii)   Maps, statistics, and other data reasonably
sufficient to describe the location of the likely and/or anticipated path of
travel of the air emissions, and potential areas of particulate deposition;
                  (iv)   Identification of regulated hazardous air pollutants
and/or toxic air contaminants to be emitted from the source; and
                  (v)   Modeling data and/or risk analysis data showing the
anticipated exposure of inhabitants of the county, and the associated
incremental risks of such exposures.
               p.   A stormwater management system to characterize the existing
stormwater flow conditions and how development of the facility will alter and
protect stormwater flows. If the application is for a landfill facility, then
the following calculations shall be provided:
                  (i)   Estimated runoff from disturbed areas resulting from
the 25-year, 24-hour precipitation event which will be discharged to waters of
the state;
                  (ii)   Estimated runoff from the completed, closed facility
resulting from the 25-year, 24-hour precipitation event which will be
discharged to waters of the state; and
                  (iii)   The general locations and capacities of all ditches,
detention basins, and all other necessary stormwater control structures.
               q.   Sediment and erosion control structures that will be used
during construction and operation of the facility;
               r.   A construction quality assurance plan that ensures the
facility will be constructed in accordance with its permitted developmental
plans. This plan shall define the duties of a Construction Quality Assurance
Officer, describe all sampling and testing procedures, and define acceptance
criteria;
               s.   An operating plan that describes the operations at the
facility during all phases of operation at the proposed site. This plan shall
include personnel requirements, personnel training, equipment requirements,
construction phasing, waste handling, monitoring requirements, on-site traffic
control, hours of operation, equipment operation, stormwater control, odor
control, dust control, litter control, noise control, vector control, systems
maintenance, and equipment maintenance;
               t.   Any routine monitoring to be performed at the facility
shall be identified and described. If the application is for a landfill
facility, then a preliminary groundwater monitoring plan shall be developed to
identify the location and phasing of the groundwater monitoring program. The
procedures to install, develop, sample, and analyze the groundwater monitoring
wells shall be specified;
               u.   A closure/post-closure care plan narrative that describes
the plans that will be developed to close the proposed facility and provide
proper post-closure care pursuant to state and federal laws and regulations.
The applicant shall also provide sufficient information proving that financial
assurance is available for the proposed facility and for proper post-closure
care, including a disclosure as to the types and/or methods of financial
assurance the applicant anticipates utilizing to comply with federal and state
requirements for same; and
               v.   Any and all maps, diagrams, plats, and/or drawings
submitted pursuant to this section two, shall be prepared by or at the
direction of, and signed by, a registered state professional engineer.
      (3)   Section three. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed facility is located so as to minimize
incompatibility with the character of the surrounding area and to minimize the
effect on the value of the surrounding property. The applicant shall divide
this section of the application into two subsections: land use subsection; and
property value subsection. Section three shall include at least the following.
         (a)   Land use subsection. A land use assessment study shall be
performed by a qualified individual who will consider the proposed facility and
its compatibility with the surrounding land uses. The subsection shall include
the qualifications of the individual and company that completed the study. The
study shall include:
            1.   An exhibit showing the land uses within a two-mile radius of
the proposed facility;
            2.   Typical photographic views of the proposed site within a
reasonable distance from the proposed facility;
            3.   A description of the landscape plan to be implemented at the
proposed facility to minimize incompatibility with the surrounding area during
the operating life of the facility;
            4.   A description of the proposed use of the site after the
facility is closed; and
            5.   A description of the history of the development of the site
and the surrounding area, and the proposed facility’s impact on those trends.
         (b)   Property value subsection. A property value impact study shall
be performed by a qualified individual to determine the effects on property
values in the surrounding areas. The subsection shall include the
qualifications of the individual and company that completed the study. The
study shall include:
            1.   Information regarding the existing property values within a
distance sufficient to draw conclusions, as determined by the study. The
information should be based upon a survey of property values based on
transactions occurring within the past five years. Where transaction data is
unavailable, tax assessments shall be used, provided they are adjusted to
account for local differences between market values and assessed values;
            2.   An analysis of the proposed facility’s impact on property
values within the distance(s) identified above; and
            3.   A description and analysis of factors relating to the proposed
site that may impact property values in the area, along with a description of
the design features and operating procedures that will be used to minimize the
impact on property values.
      (4)   Section four. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that: for a facility other than a sanitary landfill or waste
disposal site, the facility is located outside the boundary of the 100- year
floodplain or the site is flood-proofed; for a facility that is a sanitary
landfill or waste disposal site, the facility is located outside the boundary
of the 100-year floodplain, or that the facility is a facility described in
subsection (b) of § 22.19a of the state’s Environmental Protection Act (415
ILCS 5/22.19a) and the site is flood-proofed. Section four shall include at
least the following:
         (a)   A map showing the proximity of the 100-year floodplain limits to
the proposed facility, based on the most recent Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) map or floodplain elevation as determined by FEMA or other
appropriate state authority; and
         (b)   For a facility other than a landfill or waste disposal site, or
a facility described in subsection (b) of § 22.19a of the state’s Environmental
Protection Act, if the site is located in the 100- year floodplain, design
drawings and calculations prepared by a professional engineer registered in the
state shall be required as evidence that the site is flood-proofed.
      (5)   Section five. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed plan of operations for the facility is designed
to minimize the danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills, or other
accidents. Section five shall include at least the following:
         (a)   A fire protection plan that includes, but is not limited to,
maintaining a supply of water on-site, fire protection training, fire
extinguisher locations, and radio or telephone access to the nearest Fire
Department;
         (b)   A load checking program for detecting and discouraging the
disposal of hazardous waste in non-hazardous waste facilities;
         (c)   An accident prevention plan designed to prevent and/or minimize
spills and other accidents that may occur on the site. The plan shall include,
but is not limited to, providing emergency response instructions, spill
prevention and clean-up methods, and worker safety instructional plans; and
         (d)   A list of possible emergency situations which might occur at or
near the proposed PCF which might affect the operations of the proposed PCF
including, but not limited to, explosion, fire, spills, tornadoes, and
vandalism, and a detailed plan for dealing therewith.
      (6)   Section six. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed traffic patterns to or from the facility are so
designed as to minimize the impact on existing traffic flows. Section six shall
include at least the following:
         (a)   A traffic impact study performed by an experienced traffic
engineer who is registered as a professional engineer in the state; and
         (b)   The study shall include but is not limited to:
            1.   A statement of the qualifications of the individual and
company that completed the study;
            2.   A map or table indicating the roads and highways that will be
utilized in proximity to the proposed facility, along with their respective
classifications;
            3.   Recent volume counts taken for the roads and highways
indicated in division (C)(6)(b)2. above;
            4.   A discussion of known accidents within the past three years
that may indicate problem intersections or roads in proximity to the proposed
facility;
            5.   A statement of the estimated number of motor vehicles and
types and weights (loaded and empty gross) thereof which will be entering and
exiting the site during each month of operation, and calculations of average
and peak traffic flows that will be generated by the proposed site;
            6.   A map showing the location of ingress and egress to the
proposed site. The map shall also indicate the queuing area for vehicles;
            7.   A statement of the procedures which will be utilized by the
applicant to assure that only the roadways specified shall be utilized; and
            8.   A statement of the load limitations of any and all roads and
bridges that will be utilized by the traffic entering and exiting the site.
      (7)   Section seven. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that if the proposed facility will be treating, storing, or
disposing of hazardous waste, an emergency response plan exists for the
facility which includes notification, containment, and evacuation procedures to
be used in case of an accidental release. Section seven shall include at least
the following:
         (a)   For a non-hazardous waste facility, certification that hazardous
waste will not be treated, stored, or disposed on-site; or
         (b)   An emergency response plan for the site which shall include, but
not be limited to:
            1.   Provision for the notification of appropriate agencies and
personnel in the event of a release or substantial threat of a release;
            2.   Containment and removal procedures; and
            3.   Evacuation procedures for the facility and the surrounding
area.
      (8)   Section eight. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed facility is consistent with the solid waste
management plan and any amendments adopted by the County Board under the Local
Solid Waste Disposal Act (415 ILCS 10/1 et seq.) or the Solid Waste Planning
and Recycling Act (415 ILCS 15/1 et seq.). Section eight shall include at least
the following: Evidence from the solid waste management plan, as amended, that
the facility is consistent with that plan.
      (9)   Section nine. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that, if the proposed facility will be located within a regulated
recharge area, all applicable requirements specified by the state’s Pollution
Control Board for such areas have been met. Section nine shall include at least
the following:
         (a)   Evidence and documentation that the facility will not be located
in a regulated recharge area; or
         (b)   Evidence and documentation that any and all requirements
specified by the state’s Pollution Control Board have been met.
      (10)   Section ten. The County Board may also consider as evidence the
previous operating experience and past record of convictions or admissions of
violations of the applicant and operator (and any subsidiary or parent
corporation of either) in the field of solid waste management when considering
criteria (ii) and (v) under § 39.2 of the state’s Environmental Protection Act,
being 415 ILCS 5/39.2. Section ten shall include at least the following:
         (a)   The full legal name, address, and phone number of the applicant
and the name, address, and phone number of the operator, if different from the
applicant, and the full legal name, address, and telephone number of any
person, corporation, or other legal entity to be associated with the proposed
PCF. If the applicant and/or operator, or any entity intended to be associated
with the proposed PCF, is a partnership, the full legal names, addresses, and
telephone numbers of each partner. If the applicant and/or operator is a
corporation, the full legal names of all stockholders owning 5% or more of the
capital stock of the corporation and the registered agent of the corporation;
         (b)   If the applicant and/or operator is a corporation, a copy of the
articles of incorporation, or if the applicant is a sole proprietorship or
partnership, names, addresses, and phone numbers of all individuals holding an
interest in applicant and/or operator, and the names and addresses of all
officers and directors of a corporation, and/or managers of a limited liability
company;
         (c)   A copy of all insurance policies the applicant and operator
carry or will carry for the proposed facility, or a discussion of the types and
limits of insurance that is anticipated to be obtained for the proposed
facility;
         (d)   Financial condition, including balance sheet and statement of
profit and loss, each certified by a certified public accountant, for each of
the five years preceding the year of application for both the applicant and the
operator (is different than the applicant);
         (e)   A listing of solid waste management facilities owned and/or
operated by the applicant and operator (and any subsidiary or parent
corporation) in the state;
         (f)   Documentation regarding the previous operating experience and
past record of convictions or admissions of violations of the applicant and
operator (and any subsidiary or parent corporation) in the field of solid waste
management for facilities located in the state during the past five years; and
         (g)   A clear listing of the following information:
            1.   All convictions or admissions of violations, either criminal
or civil, of any foreign, federal, state, or local environmental regulation or
statute of the applicant, any subsidiary corporation of the applicant, any
parent corporation of the applicant, and any proposed operator, in the field of
solid waste management in the state during the past five years, including such
information as court or agency, case or file number, and brief summary of
allegations, facts, and resolution;
            2.   A description of the solid waste management program operated
at the facility which involved the conviction(s) or admission(s) of violation
(s);
            3.   Enforcement action, if any, taken by the government entity
involved; and
            4.   Remedial action taken at site, if any, including cost thereof.
         (h)   Information as to whether the applicant or proposed operator has
ever closed a pollution control facility voluntarily or involuntarily, and the
location of said facility and the date on which the process of closing started
and the date on which it was completed.
      (11)   Section 11. Additional information may be included as an appendix
to the application if the applicant feels this information is helpful and/or
necessary.
      (12)   Section 12. Signatures affirming that to the best of the knowledge
of the person signing the information contained in the application is true and
complete shall be included in the application for the following individuals: a
duly authorized representative of the applicant; the proposed operator (if
different than the applicant); and all technical and non-technical individuals
who supplied data contained in the application. All individuals licensed in
their profession (e.g., engineers, land surveyors, and geologists) shall
include their license or professional registration number.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-5)
§ 98.06 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURE; COUNTY CLERK.
   (A)   Filing of application. Upon receipt of an application, including
payment of the applicable filing fee, the County Clerk shall date stamp all
copies submitted. The County Clerk has no obligation to review the application
to determine if the application is complete and in strict compliance with this
chapter and with the Act. The file stamp date shall be considered the official
filing date for time limit purposes only if the application is considered
properly filed pursuant to §
98.03. Such determination shall be made by the Committee within 30 days of
filing of the application.
   (B)   Delivery of applications. Upon receipt of an application, including
the applicable filing fee, the County Clerk shall deliver file stamped copies
of the application to the Chairperson of the County Board, to the Director of
the County Health Department, and the County State’s Attorney.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-6)
§ 98.07 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURE; POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY SITING
COMMITTEE.
   (A)   A Pollution Control Facility Siting Committee shall be established by
the County Board Chairperson within 15 days of the date a siting application is
filed with the County Clerk. The Committee shall consist of at least three
members of the Health Services Committee of the County Board. Four additional
County Board members shall be appointed to the Committee by the County Board
Chairperson. Committee members shall serve until such time as a decision is
rendered by the County Board whether to grant site location approval or not,
and any legal appeals concerning the siting request have been finalized.
   (B)   The Chair of the Committee shall be appointed by County Board
Chairperson. In the event of the Chair’s absence, the Committee, by a majority
vote of the members present, shall designate one of its members as Acting
Chair. The Chair of the Committee shall vote only in the event there is a tie
in the vote of the Committee. The Committee may take action only when a quorum
of Committee members is present, unless otherwise provided herein. A simple
majority of members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum for purposes of
holding a meeting.
   (C)   All meetings and hearing of the Committee shall be at the call of the
Committee Chair, or in his or her absence, the Acting Chair, at such times as
may be required. The Chair shall provide at least 48 hours’ notice to all
Committee members of any special meeting called by him or her. This notice
requirement does not apply to continuances of the public hearing. During the
course of the Public hearing, the Committee Chair may designate the Hearing
Officer as the presiding officer at the public hearing, and any continuances
thereof. The Committee Chair, or in his or her absence, the Acting Chair, may
administer oaths or statements of affirmation to witnesses. In the absence of
any Committee Chair or Acting Chair at a public hearing, the Hearing Officer
may schedule continuation of hearings without further notice and without the
call of the Committee Chair, and may administer oaths or statements of
affirmation.
   (D)   The Committee shall select, by simple majority vote, a Hearing Officer
(who need not be a County Board member) to serve during any public hearing
concerning an application. The Hearing Officer shall serve at the pleasure of
the Committee. Compensation for the services of the Hearing Officer shall be
pursuant to a written agreement negotiated by the Committee, and approved by
the County Board before the Hearing Officer takes any action at a public
hearing. The duties of the Hearing Officer shall be provided for herein and as
the Committee may designate from time to time. No Committee members need be
present when the public hearing is being conducted by the Hearing Officer and
the hearing is being transcribed as provided herein.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-7)
§ 98.08 RETENTION OF CONSULTANTS, COUNSEL, AND EXPERTS; REPORTS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   The county may, upon the recommendation of the Committee, the County
State’s Attorney’s Office, the County Health Department, or the Health Services
Committee, retain such consultants, attorneys, and/or experts to assist the
Health Services Committee and/or the Health Department in evaluating the
applications and any and all other information made a part of the record.
   (B)   The Health Department may, but is not required to, in conjunction with
other county staff, prepare and submit a report and recommendations in
connection with the application, including the applicant’s previous operating
experience and past record of convictions or admissions of violations (any
subsidiary or parent corporation) in the field of solid waste management, prior
to the start of the public hearing on the application. Any such report and
recommendation, as well as reports, studies, or exhibits created as part of the
preparation of such a report and recommendations, shall be filed with the
County Clerk and the Records Depository no later than five days in advance of
the initial public hearing on the application.
   (C)   The Health Department, independently or in conjunction with county
staff and consultants, may, but is not required to, prepare and submit a final
report to the Committee summarizing the public hearing process and comments
received during the 30-day public comment period. The final report may provide
specific recommendations to the Committee concerning whether the applicant has
satisfied the relevant siting criteria, and any special conditions deemed
necessary or appropriate. If such a final report is prepared, it shall be filed
with the County Clerk and made a part of the records no later than three days
prior to the meeting date at which the Committee renders a final recommendation
to the County Board regarding the application.
   (D)   A court reporter shall be employed by the Committee and shall be
present at any and all meetings of the Committee and at the public hearing and
any continuances thereof. The court reporter shall provide the Committee with a
certified transcript of the hearing as soon as possible, but not later than 15
days after completion of the public hearing. A secretary may be employed by the
Committee to assist the Hearing Officer during the public hearing process.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-8)
§ 98.09 FILING WRITTEN COMMENTS.
   (A)   Any person or entity may file written comments with the County Clerk
concerning any matters contained in the application or otherwise relevant to
the siting criteria including, but not limited to, the appropriateness of the
proposed site for the intended purpose. Any such written comments must be
postmarked and/or received within 30 days after the conclusion of the public
hearing. Said written comments shall be mailed or delivered to the County
Clerk, 11 South 4th Street, 2nd Floor, Pekin, Illinois 61554. All written
comments must be submitted on paper and clearly designate reference to the PCF
application to which they refer. Upon receipt, the County Clerk shall date
stamp the comments and refer them to the Committee and the Hearing Officer. The
Committee and the County Board shall consider any comment complying with this
section. Comments submitted or postmarked after the date provided above, or
which do not concern matters contained in the application or are otherwise
relevant to the siting criteria, need not, but may, be considered by the
Committee and/or County Board.
   (B)   Timely submitted written comments shall become part of the record and
shall be added to the document repository.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-9)
§ 98.10 NOTICE.
   (A)   The applicant shall comply with all notice requirements established by
the Act and this chapter. Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve
applicant of any and all notice obligations.
   (B)   All notices shall contain at least the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The owner of the site, and in case ownership is in a land trust,
the names and addresses of the beneficiaries of said trust;
      (3)   The legal description of the site;
      (4)   The street address of the property, and if there is no street
address, a description of the site with reference to location, ownership, or
occupancy, or in some other manner that will reasonably identify the property
to residents of the area;
      (5)   The nature of the proposed development;
      (6)   The probable life of the proposed facility;
      (7)   The date, time, and location of the public hearing, if known; and
      (8)   A statement that the application is available to the public in the
office of the County Clerk and that copies of the application are available
upon payment of actual cost of reproduction, pursuant to the Freedom of
Information Act (5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.).
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-10)
§ 98.11 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   At least one public hearing shall be held by the Committee no sooner
than 90 days but no later than 120 days from the date of the application. The
public hearing may be continued from time to time at the request and/or
direction of the Committee Chair and/or Hearing Officer.
   (B)   The Chair of the Committee shall notify the applicant in writing of
the date, time, and location of the public hearing at least 21 days prior to
such hearing.
   (C)   The applicant shall cause notice to be given in accordance with § 39.2
(d) of the Act, being 415 ILCS 5/39.2(d). The applicant shall file with the
County Clerk copies of each notice with proof of service prior to commencement
of said public hearing. The notice required in this division (C) is not
required for continuations of a public hearing for which notice has been
properly made.
   (D)   Members or representatives of the governing authority of any
municipality contiguous to the property boundary of the proposed site and/or
the Tri-County Regional Planning Commission may appear at, and participate in,
the public hearing as may be permitted by the Hearing Officer.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall preside at the public hearing, and any
continuances thereof, and shall make decisions concerning the order of
witnesses, the length of time each witness shall be allowed, how many witnesses
shall be allowed, the admission of evidence, and the manner in which the
hearing is conducted, subject to this chapter. The Hearing Officer shall make
all rulings and decisions in accordance with principles of fundamental
fairness. No ruling of the Hearing Officer concerning admissibility of evidence
or procedural issues at the public hearing shall be appealable to the County
Board and/or the Committee.
   (F)   The public hearing shall develop a record of all evidence and other
matters admitted by the Hearing Officer, including the testimony of the
applicant and any witnesses whom the applicant may call in support of the
application, any representative of the Health Department, county staff and/or
consultants retained by the county in support of any reports or other matters
submitted by the Health Department, county staff and/or consultants retained by
the county, and any objectors or other witnesses having relevant information,
subject to the control of the Hearing Officer.
   (G)   The Hearing Officer shall call the hearing to order and shall allow
the applicant to make an opening statement. The Hearing Officer may allow a
representative of the Health Department, county staff and/or consultants
retained by the county, and/or objectors or their counsel to make an opening
statement.
   (H)   The applicant shall have the burden of proof and the burden of going
forward with evidence. If the applicant is a natural person, the applicant may
appear at the public hearing on his or her own behalf, or be represented by
counsel or agent. If the applicant is not a natural person, the applicant must
be represented by counsel. Testimonial evidence introduced by the applicant may
not exceed the scope of the application, and may only explain and/or clarify
the application, not expend or amend the application.
   (I)   All persons desiring to present testimony at the public hearing must
first submit written notification of said intent to the County Clerk at least
two days before the first day of the public hearing. Any reports, studies,
exhibits, or other items intended to be utilized or referenced during the
testimony shall be filed with the County Clerk at the time written notification
is submitted. The Hearing Officer may waive this requirement in order to
achieve fundamental fairness.
   (J)   Any member of the Committee present at the public hearing shall have
the ability to question any witness to clarify the record or to bring out
relevant information. The hearing office may allow other persons present at the
public hearing, including, but not limited to, County Board members, members or
representatives of governing bodies of municipalities within one and one-half
miles of the property boundary of the proposed site, the applicant or a
representative of the applicant (including an attorney representing the
applicant), or objectors, to question witnesses to clarify the record or to
bring out relevant information, subject to the sole discretion and control of
the Hearing Officer. In addition, the Hearing Officer may allow any person
present at the public hearing to submit questions in writing to the Hearing
Officer for any witness, and the Hearing Officer shall exercise discretion
whether such questions shall be posed to the witness and the manner in which
the questions are posed.
   (K)   All witnesses shall testify under oath or affirmation.
      (1)   Testimony may include the use of prepared statements and exhibits,
in which case, the prepared statement must be signed by the witness and must
include the following statement.
      (2)   “Under penalties as provided by law, the undersigned certifies that
the statements set forth in this instrument are true and correct, except as to
matters therein stated to be on information and belief, and as to such matters,
the undersigned certifies as aforesaid that the undersigned verily believes the
same to be true.”
   (L)   The Hearing Officer may exercise discretion as to whether and/or when
to allow a time for public comment. The hearing office may exclude irrelevant,
immaterial, or incompetent or unduly repetitious testimony or other evidence.
The hearing office shall rule on all questions relating to the admissibility of
evidence. The rules of evidence applicable in civil actions in courts of law
shall apply in the public hearing. However, the Hearing Officer shall have the
authority to relax the rules of evidence to allow consideration of all relevant
evidence, and so as to allow public comments, written statements, and other
information provided in the Act and this chapter. Evidentiary rulings of the
Hearing Officer shall not be appealable to the County Board.
   (M)   At the conclusion of the public hearing, and any continuances thereof,
the Hearing Officer may permit the applicant, the Health Department, county
staff and/or consultants retained by the county, and any other persons to file
proposed findings of fact and conclusions. Such findings of fact and
conclusions shall be filed with the County Clerk within 30 days of the close of
the public hearing, and any continuances thereof.
   (N)   The siting procedures and criteria provided in the Act and in this
chapter shall be the exclusive siting procedures and rules for all PCFs. Local
zoning or other land use requirements shall not be applicable to such siting
decisions. However, to the extent provided by law, the applicant shall also
comply with zoning and other requirements.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-11)
§ 98.12 AMENDMENT OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   At any time prior to completion of applicant’s presentation of
applicant’s factual evidence at the public hearing, applicant may file not more
than one amended application upon payment of additional fees pursuant to § 39.2
(k) of the Act, being 415 ILCS 5/39.2(k) and the supplemental fees provided
below.
   (B)   If the applicant elects to file an amended application for site
location approval for any PCF in accordance with this chapter, such filing
shall be accompanied by payment by applicant of a supplemental fee of $25,000.
Said supplemental fee shall be paid to the County Clerk for deliver to the
County Treasurer for deposit into the special fund created pursuant to §
98.04(C)(7). Said funds shall be administered pursuant to that section. The
supplemental fee shall not be a limit on applicant’s liability under §
98.04(C)(7) for payment of the county’s costs, expenses, and/or fees, and
should the county incur additional costs in excess of the applicable filing fee
and supplemental fee, the applicant shall bear any and all additional costs and
shall promptly pay such amounts to the county upon written request or demand.
   (C)   In the event an applicant files an amended application, the time
limitation for final action by the County Board set forth in § 39.2(e) of the
Act, being 415 ILCS 5/39.2(e) and this chapter, shall be extended for an
additional period of 90 days.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-12)
§ 98.13 PUBLIC MEETING TO DISCUSS APPLICATION.
   Not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days after the close of the
public hearing, the Committee shall meet to discuss the record for purposes of
developing a recommendation to the County Board as to whether or not the
application satisfies the applicable siting criteria in the Act (or such
amended criteria as may be set forth from time to time in the Act). This
meeting shall be open to the public, but no further evidence, testimony, or
input from the parties or the public will be allowed.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-13)
§ 98.14 RECOMMENDATION OF COMMITTEE.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, or any continuances thereof, the
Committee shall vote as to its recommendation on the application, including any
such conditions as the Committee finds may be reasonable and necessary to
accomplish the purpose of the Act, and which are not inconsistent with the Act
and regulations promulgated by the state’s Pollution Control Board, in the
event the Committee recommends that the Board grant approval of an application.
The recommendation of the Committee shall be in writing, specifying the reason
(s) for the recommendation, and setting forth findings of fact for each of the
nine statutory criteria. The Committee shall submit its report to the County
Board as soon as practicable, or as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-14)
§ 98.15 PRELIMINARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Once the Committee has made its recommendation and reduced it to
writing, the written recommendation shall be submitted to the full County Board
for its review and decision.
   (B)   As soon as the transcript and other evidence is available, the Hearing
Officer shall deliver three copies of the record to the County Board by filing
same in the County Clerk’s office.
   (C)   The County Clerk shall, as soon as practicable, transfer said copies
to the Chair of the County Board.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-15)
§ 98.16 COUNTY BOARD DECISION.
   (A)   The County Board shall, based upon the record and upon review of the
recommendation of the Committee, make the decision as to approval or
disapproval of the application.
   (B)   The decision of the County Board shall be by resolution, in writing,
specifying the reasons for the decision, in conformity with § 39.2(a) of the
Act, being 415 ILCS 5/39.2(a).
   (C)   The resolution shall be filed with the County Clerk and made available
for public inspection and copying (upon payment of any applicable fees) at the
office of the County Clerk.
   (D)   The County Board may, in its discretion, impose such conditions as may
be reasonable and necessary to accomplish the purpose of the Act, and which are
not inconsistent with the Act and regulations promulgated by the state’s
Pollution Control Board, in the event the Board grants approval of an
application.
   (E)   If there is no final action by the County Board within 180 days after
the proper filing of the application (plus any additional time as may be added
as a result of the filing of an amended application), the applicant may deem
the application approved.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-16)
§ 98.17 EXPIRATION OF APPROVAL.
   In the event the Court Board grants approval of the application, said
approval shall expire at the end of two calendar years from date upon which the
approval is granted, unless the approval is for a sanitary landfill operation,
in which case the approval shall expire at the end of three calendar years from
the date upon which it was granted, and unless within that period the applicant
makes application to IEPA for a permit to develop the PCF proposed in the
application. In the event the approval is appealed, the period shall be deemed
to begin on the date upon which the appeal process is concluded.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-17)
§ 98.18 APPEALS.
   Appeals of the final decision of the County Board shall be made in
accordance with the Act.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-18)
§ 98.19 DOCUMENT REPOSITORY; COUNTY CLERK.
   All documents and/or other materials filed with the County Clerk pursuant to
the Act and this chapter shall be made available for public inspection at the
office of the County Clerk. Copies of documents capable of being copied by copy
machines available at the County Clerk’s office may be obtained upon payment of
the cost of reproduction.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-19)
§ 98.20 OTHER REPOSITORY.
   The Committee may establish one or more public document repository or
repositories as the Committee deems necessary. Said repositories shall contain
the same documents as are retained by the County Clerk, and any and all other
documents or other materials submitted to the Committee during the public
hearing or within 30 days after the public hearing. Said additional repository
or repositories may be at a public location and/or at a commercial
establishment offering copying services, or such other location as the
Committee deems appropriate.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-20)
§ 98.21 APPLICATIONS IN INCORPORATED AREAS OF THE COUNTY.
   In the event an application or request for siting approval for a pollution
control facility in an incorporated area of the county is filed with a unit of
local government other than the county, the following provisions shall apply.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-21)
§ 98.22 FORMATION OF REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   A Pollution Control Facility Siting Review Committee (hereinafter referred
to as the Review Committee) shall be established by the County Board consisting
of the Chairperson of the Zoning and Land Use, Highway, Property, and Health
Services Committees of the County Board.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-22)
§ 98.23 PURPOSE AND FUNCTION OF REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   The Review Committee shall meet at least once to review and discuss the
application and such other materials and information as the Review Committee
may deem necessary, relevant, or appropriate to evaluate the application’s
compliance with the county’s solid waste management plan, and to make such
recommendation to the County Board as the Committee may deem appropriate, and
to attend and/or participate in the public hearing held by the unit of local
government to provide the County Board’s input.
(Prior Code, 6 TCC 8-23)
CHAPTER 99: BODY ART
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Jurisdiction and administrative rules
   
99.03   Application and permit requirements
   
99.04   Requirements for premises
   
99.05   Body art operator/apprentice requirements and professional standards
   
99.06   Preparation and care of body art area
   
99.07   Equipment
   
99.08   Disinfection and sterilization procedures
   
99.09   Inspection and enforcement provisions
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in the State Department of Public
Health Body Art Code, the following general definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this chapter.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The County Board of Health or its authorized
representatives.
   INSPECTOR. All authorized agents of County Health Department, and
representatives of the Board of Health, who have the authority to enter and
make reasonable inspections of any body art establishment during their regular
hours of business for the purpose of determining compliance with the Board’s
rules governing body art facilities. The inspector shall prepare a written
report of said inspection. Such report shall be signed by the inspector and by
the body art establishment owner or their designated representative. A copy of
such inspection report shall be left with the owner or manager.
   LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department.
   MICROPIGMENTATION. Is a cosmetic technique which employs semi-permanent
tattoos as a means of producing designs on a person's face that resemble
makeup. An example of a specific micropigmentation technique is the
microblading of eyebrows, a tattooing technique in which a small handheld tool
made of several tiny needles is used to add semi-permanent pigment to the skin.
Each hairstroke is created by hand using a blade which creates fine slices in
the skin. It deposits pigment into the upper reaches of the dermis, so it fades
more rapidly than traditional tattooing techniques, which deposit pigment
deeper into the skin. Other micropigmentation techniques such as microshading,
powder fills, lip shading, lip blushing, and any other techniques that break
the skin are included in this definition.
   NON-REGISTERED BODY ART ESTABLISHMENTS. Any body art facility, including
mobile or temporary, attempting to operate without a current registered permit
from the State Department of Public Health. These establishments will be
required to cease operation until an application for certificate of
registration has been submitted and an initial routine inspection has been
performed. Once the application has been received, and the State Department of
Public Health has notified the Local Health Department, an inspector shall
perform an initial routine inspection for the establishment. No establishment
operating without a current state-issued certificate of registration shall be
permitted to operate body art in the county.
(Ord. E-14-66, passed 5-28-2014; Res. E-22-80, passed 9-28-2022)
§ 99.02 JURISDICTION AND ADMINISTRATIVE RULES.
   (A)   The rules and regulations shall apply to all territory embraced within
the limits of the county provided by law.
   (B)   Within 30 days upon adoption, this chapter shall become effective.
   (C)   The administrative rules adopted by the State Department of Public
Health pertaining to body art establishments and body art modification
procedures found in 77 Ill. Adm. Code 797 and all subsequent amendments are
hereby adopted by reference. The Board of Health is authorized to adopt rules
to carry out the purpose of this chapter. Three certified copies of each shall
be on file in the office of the County Clerk’s Office.
   (D)   Should any of the provisions of this chapter conflict with a body art
state law or code passed subsequent to this chapter, the state law or code
shall take precedence over this chapter.
(Ord. E-14-66, passed 5-28-2014)
§ 99.03 APPLICATION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any non-registered body art or micropigmentation
establishment to operate in any portion of the county, nor may any person
practice the art of body art or micropigmentation on a person other than
himself or herself without obtaining a certificate of registration from the
State Department of Public Health. Establishments or individuals that continue
to operate or practice without a certificate from the State Department of
Public Health, or which operate in violations of these regulations, will be
subject to enforcement provisions under this chapter.
(Ord. E-14-66, passed 5-28-2014; Res. E-22-80, passed 9-28-2022) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR PREMISES.
   (A)   A hand sink with hot and cold running water, under pressure,
preferably equipped with wrist- or foot-operated controls and supplied with
liquid soap, disposable paper towels and be separate from any public restroom
shall be readily accessible within the body art establishment. In addition,
there shall be a minimum of one lavatory, excluding any service sinks, and one
toilet in a body art establishment. Easily cleanable waste receptacles must be
conveniently located near the hand washing facility.
   (B)   There shall be no overhead or otherwise exposed sewerage lines so as
to create a potential hazard to the sanitary environment of the business.
   (C)   Containers of poisonous or toxic materials necessary for operational
maintenance of the establishment shall be prominently and distinctly labeled in
accordance with law. Small working containers of bulk cleaning agents shall be
individually labeled for easy identification of contents.
   (D)   Poisonous or toxic materials necessary for the maintenance of the
establishment consists of the following two categories:
      (1)   Insecticides and rodenticides; and
      (2)   Detergents, sanitizers, related cleaning or drying agents, and
caustics, acids, polishes and other chemicals.
   (E)   Materials in each of these two categories shall be stored and located
to be physically separated from each other, shall be stored in cabinets or in
similar physically separated compartments or facilities used for no other
purpose; and, to preclude potential contamination, shall not be stored above or
intermingled with body art equipment.
(Ord. E-14-66, passed 5-28-2014) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.05 BODY ART OPERATOR/APPRENTICE REQUIREMENTS AND PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All operators and apprentices working in any body art establishment,
including temporary and mobile, shall be registered with the Local Health
Department. This list shall be provided by the registered body art
establishment and submitted with a fee as set by the Board of Health. Artist
registration shall be renewed every five years or if an artist changes location
within the county.
   (B)   A complete list of all registered operators shall be provided to the
Local Health Department annually with facility license renewal.
   (C)   Proof shall be provided upon request of the Local Health Department
that all operators/apprentices have either completed or were offered and
declined, in writing, the hepatitis B vaccination series. This offering should
be included as a pre-employment requirement.
   (D)   Body art establishments are responsible for notifying the Local Health
Department, in writing, when an operator/apprentice starts or stops working at
the establishment within 30 days.
   (E)   Apprentices shall work under the supervision of a registered body art
operator.
   (F)   Body artists who perform micropigmentation must attend and pass a
micropigmentation training course with a trainer who is a certified instructor
by the American Academy of Micropigmentation (AAM) or the Society of Permanent
Cosmetic Professionals (SPCP). The training certificate must be posted near the
workstation of the body artist performing the microblading.
(Ord. E-14-66, passed 5-28-2014; Res. E-22-80, passed 9-28-2022) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.06 PREPARATION AND CARE OF THE BODY ART AREA.
   (A)   No individual performing body art services shall use styptic pencils,
alum blocks or other solid styptics to check the flow of blood.
   (B)   Only sterile ointment in collapsible metal or plastic tubes or its
equivalent, as approved by the Board of Health, shall be used on the area to be
tattooed and shall be applied by use of a single use gauze square, individual
cotton ball or square, or single use wooden tongue depressors. Under no
circumstances shall bare hand contact be used for application.
(Ord. E-14-66, passed 5-28-2014) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.07 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Operators performing body piercing services shall install only
sterilized jewelry made of steel that is ASTM F138 compliant or ISO 5832-
1,10993-6,10993-10, and/or 10993-11 compliant and polished to a mirrored
finish, titanium (TI6AI4V ELI) that is ISO 5832-3, ASTM F136 or ASTM F67
compliant and polished to a mirrored finish, solid 14 karat higher nickel free
white or yellow gold, solid nickel free platinum alloy, niobium, fused quartz
glass, lead-free borosilicate, or lead-free soda-lime glass, or polymers
(plastics) such as medical tubing, Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) that is ASTM
F754-00 compliant, any plastic material that is ISO 10993-6,10993-10, or 10993-
11 compliant or meets the United States Pharmacopeia (USP) Class VI material
classification.
   (B)   Threaded jewelry must be internally threaded (no threads on posts) and
all surfaces and ends must be free from nicks, scratches, burrs and polishing
compounds.
   (C)   A facility must have on premises a “Mill Test Certificate” in English
for all jewelry used for initial piercings which provides evidence of a
specific grade of metal with a code designation or ASTM or ISO or other
documentation approved by the agency which meets division (A) of this section.
(Ord. E-14-66, passed 5-28-2014) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.08 DISINFECTION AND STERILIZATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All non-disposable containers used for the preparation of the skin
prior to when the body art procedure is performed shall be cleaned daily by
autoclave.
   (B)   The operator shall place all used, non-disposable instruments in an
ultrasonic-type machine to remove excess dye or other matter from the
instruments; or the operator shall immerse non-disposable instruments for at
least 20 minutes in a disinfectant solution registered with the United States
Environmental Protection Agency as a hospital disinfectant before the operator
proceeds to scrub the instruments. When this process is completed, the operator
shall place the instruments into either a covered container or into a wrapper
designed or suitable for steam sterilization. The operator shall daily sanitize
the ultrasonic-type unit with a germicidal solution.
   (C)   The operator shall provide a steam sterilizer (autoclave) for
sterilizing all needles and similar instruments before use on any patron.
Alternate sterilizing procedures may be used when specifically approved by the
Board of Health. Sterilization of instruments will be accomplished in the
autoclave by exposure to steam for at least 15 minutes at a minimum pressure of
fifteen pounds per square inch, temperature of 250º F. or 120º C.
   (D)   In the event of a positive biological indicator result or mechanical
failure, all items sterilized since the time of the last negative biological
monitor result shall immediately be recalled and prohibited from use until
cause of positive biological indicator test result is identified. The
sterilizer shall not be used to sterilize instruments until the cause of
positive indicator testing is identified.
      (1)   In the event of a positive biological indicator result or
mechanical failure, all items sterilized since the time of the last negative
biological monitor result shall immediately be recalled and prohibited from use
until cause of positive biological indicator test result is identified. The
sterilizer shall not be used to sterilize instruments until the cause of
positive indicator testing is identified.
      (2)   If a mechanical or procedural failure was identified as evidenced
by a repeat positive biological indicator test, the facility shall re-sterilize
all recalled instruments and assess if any items were used since the time of
the last negative indicator test. The Local Health Department shall be notified
immediately of the mechanical failure.
(Ord. E-14-66, passed 5-28-2014) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.09 INSPECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A representative of the Board of Health shall properly identify
himself or herself before entering a body art establishment to make an
inspection. Such an inspection must be conducted as often as necessary
throughout the year to ensure compliance with this code.
   (B)   A representative of the Board of Health may inspect a body art
establishment, including mobile or temporary, at any reasonable time(s) the
Board of Health deems necessary to conduct inspections, complaint
investigations and inspect conditions related to the enforcement of this code.
Representatives shall only enter a procedure area with a client’s consent if a
body art procedure is in process at the time of the inspection.
   (C)   A copy of the inspection report must be furnished to the body art
establishment permit holder or body artist registration holder, with the State
Department of Public Health retaining possession of the original.
   (D)   If, after investigation, the Board of Health should find that a body
art establishment or body artist is in violation of this code, the Local Health
Department may advise the body art establishment and/or body artists, in
writing, of its findings and instruct the specific steps to correct such
violations within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 30 days.
   (E)   Body art establishments and/or body artists that continue to operate
without proper permits from the State Department of Public Health or operate in
violation of these regulations will be subject to legal remedial actions and
sanctions as provided by the law.
(Ord. E-14-66, passed 5-28-2014)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The following penalties shall apply to any establishment or individual
(s) who operate within the county upon violation of the following requirements:
      (1)   Failure to register or renew registration with State Department of
Public Health for a body art permit as required by Section 797.400 of the IDPH
Body Art Code shall pay a penalty of $250 plus a $50 per day surcharge each day
the establishment, mobile or temporary, remains in violation.
      (2)   Failure to inform the Local Health Department of any temporary body
art operation activities as required by Section 797.1400 of the IDPH Body Art
Code for inspection, with the result of the temporary event passing without
inspection shall pay a penalty of $500.
      (3)   Failure to register body artists with the Board of Health shall pay
a penalty of $250.
   (B)   Certificates of registration for body art establishments and artists
may be suspended by the Board of Health for failure to comply with the
requirements of this chapter. Upon suspension, the certificate shall be removed
from the establishment by the Board of Health and returned to the Local Health
Department.
   (C)   A body art establishment or artist shall be notified in writing that
the certificate of registration is, upon service of the notice, immediately
suspended and that an opportunity for a hearing will be provided if a written
request is filed with the Board of Health by the certificate of registration
holder.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, whenever the
Board of Health finds unsanitary or other conditions in the operation of a body
art establishment or body artists procedures which in its judgment, constitutes
a substantial hazard to the public health, the Board of Health may without
warning, notice or hearing, issue a written notice to the certificate of
registration holder citing such condition, specifying the corrective action to
be taken, and specifying the time period within such action shall be taken and
if operations as a body art establishment/operator are to be immediately
discontinued. Any establishment or person to whom such an order is issued shall
comply immediately therewith, but upon written petition to the Board of Health
shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible.
(Ord. E-14-66, passed 5-28-2014)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOL
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Signs
   
110.01   Prohibition of bills on poles and trees
 
   
110.99   Penalty
SIGNS
§ 110.01 PROHIBITION OF BILLS ON POLES AND TREES.
   It shall be unlawful to post upon county government property or upon any
county highway any advertising, sign, or poster at any time; excepting however,
highway or traffic signs, or legal advertising to be posted by the various
legal authorities. (See 605 ILCS 5/2-202.)
(Prior Code, 5 TCC 2-1) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, persons, or corporation violating the provisions of §
110.01 shall be subject to a minimum fine of $25 and a maximum fine of $200 for
each such violation.
(Prior Code, 5 TCC 2-2)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Local Liquor Control Commission
   
111.02   Hours
   
111.03   Plans of licensed premises
   
111.04   Sales to minors, intoxicated persons
   
111.05   Employment of minors
   
111.06   Presence of minors on premises
   
111.07   Conditions of premises
   
111.08   Carrying open liquor from premises
   
111.09   Consumption of liquor in public place or non-licensed premises
   
111.10   Reports of accidents to police
   
111.11   Certain sexually oriented matters
   
111.12   Illegal activities on premises
Retail Licenses
   
111.25   Definitions
   
111.26   License required
   
111.27   Licenses-term, classifications, fees, and numbers
   
111.28   Application for license; contents
   
111.29   Application for license; procedures
   
111.30   Persons ineligible for license
   
111.31   Frontage consent
   
111.32   Health certification
   
111.33   Proof of safe conditions
   
111.34   Renewal of license
   
111.35   Privileges granted by license
   
111.36   License to be displayed
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the County Board shall be the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner for the county, and he or she shall have the powers and duties set
out in the state’s Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., including
the powers to grant, suspend, and revoke licenses issued under this chapter;
provided that his or her powers to suspend and revoke licenses shall be subject
to the notice and hearing requirements set out in the state’s Liquor Control
Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
   (B)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall receive from the county
the compensation set by the County Board.
   (C)   Any assistants appointed by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
shall receive the per diem compensation allowed County Board members for
committee work, together with reasonable expenses.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-10)
§ 111.02 HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at
retail any alcoholic liquor in the county between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:
00 a.m. on any day and between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on
Sundays. Notwithstanding the foregoing, closing time on January 1 shall be 2:30
a.m. instead of 1:00 a.m.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or to permit the public
to patronize any premises where alcoholic liquors are sold at retail during the
hours within which the sale of such liquor is prohibited; provided, however,
that restaurants, clubs, hotels, grocery stores, and drug stores may be kept
open during such hours if no alcoholic liquor is sold.
   (C)   No person other than a licensee or any of his or her employees while
actually in the performance of their duties shall be permitted to enter or
remain upon the premises, nor shall any person consume any alcoholic liquor
upon the premises, nor shall any alcoholic liquor be exposed upon the premises
in any open individual serving container beyond 30 minutes after the prescribed
closing time.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 PLANS OF LICENSED PREMISES.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner is hereby authorized to require all
persons to whom a license is or has been issued to submit plans or drawings of
the licensed premises, showing all of the premises and appurtenances, rooms,
basements, and restrooms necessary or advisable for enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-12)
§ 111.04 SALES TO MINORS, INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent, or employee of such licensee to sell, give, or deliver
any alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of 21 years, or to any
intoxicated person, or to any person known by him or her to be a habitual
drunkard or a spend-thrift, or insane, mentally ill, mentally deficient, or in
need of mental treatment.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS.
   No person licensed under this chapter shall employ or permit any person
under the age of 21 years for the purpose of drawing, mixing, or pouring any
alcoholic liquor, attending bar, or selling package liquor at retail on the
licensed premises; it shall further be unlawful to permit any person under the
age of 21 years to draw, mix, or pour any alcoholic liquor or attend bar or
sell package liquor at retail on any premises licensed under this chapter; and
it shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to draw, mix, or pour
alcoholic liquor, attend bar, or sell package liquor at retail on any premises
licensed under this chapter. All other employees of any person licensed under
this chapter whose duties are performed upon the licensed premises shall be at
least 19 years of age, except for bus boys and other employees whose duties
consist of setting and clearing tables who shall be at least 16 years of age.
Provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall apply to the holder of a
Class “B” license who provides separate area for the sale of alcoholic liquor
if said area is under the control of a person at least 21 years of age.
Provided further, that nothing contained herein shall prevent the employment of
a person less than 21 years of age but at least 16 years of age by the holder
of a Class “C” license, provided that such person is not directly engaged in
the preparation or service of such alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-14) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 PRESENCE OF MINORS ON PREMISES.
   Any person under the age of 21 years shall not enter or remain upon any
premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic liquor except in the company of his
or her parent or legal guardian; provided, however, that this section shall
apply to only those portions of restaurants, clubs, grocery stores, and drug
stores which are exclusively or primarily for the sale and consumption of
alcoholic liquors.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-15) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 CONDITIONS OF PREMISES.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage
of such liquor for retail sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition,
and shall be kept in full compliance with all provisions of this code
regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for
human consumption. The Sheriff and county health inspectors are hereby
authorized to conduct inspections of such premises at all times during business
hours to assure compliance with this provision.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-16)
§ 111.08 CARRYING OPEN LIQUOR FROM PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry any alcoholic liquors in
an unsealed or opened container from the licensed premises where such alcoholic
liquor was purchased.
   (B)   No licensee or person as proprietor, agent, servant, or employee of
such licensee shall knowingly permit any patron to violate this section nor
continue to sell alcoholic liquors to such person, knowing that such person
intends to carry the alcoholic liquor from the premises in an open or unsealed
container.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-17) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 CONSUMPTION OF LIQUOR IN PUBLIC PLACE OR NON-LICENSED PREMISES.
   No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor in any public place within the
county except in the premises licensed for the retail sale of alcoholic liquors
and consumption in the premises.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-18) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 REPORTS OF ACCIDENTS TO POLICE.
   (A)   Each licensee and each of his or her agents and employees shall
properly report to the County Sheriff’s Department any incident occurring on or
about the licensed premises and in his or her knowledge or view relating to the
Commission of any crime, including any violation of this chapter, and shall
truthfully and fully answer all questions and investigations of any identified
police officer who makes inquiry concerning any persons in or about the
licensed premises and any events taking place in and about the licensed
premises.
   (B)   In the event any criminal charges are filed by the county State’s
Attorney’s Office relating to any incident occurring on or about the licensed
premises relating to the commission of any crime, including any violation of
this chapter, each licensee and each of his or her agents and employees shall
sign appropriate charges, appear before the county grand jury, appear in court
to testify, and in all other respects cooperate with the State’s Attorney’s
Office in the prosecution of any such crime.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-19)
§ 111.11 CERTAIN SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTERS.
   (A)   No licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent,
or employee of such licensee shall suffer or permit any person to appear on the
premises, or to be seen from the licensed premises, in such manner or attire as
to expose to view any portion of the human genitals, human buttocks, or human
female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola, or any
simulation thereof.
   (B)   No license or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent,
or employee of such licensee shall offer for viewing or sale on the licensed
premises any video recordings, films, books, magazines, or other periodicals
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities, as defined in division
(C) below.
   (C)   (1)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS includes:
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or
pubic regions, human buttocks, or human female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; and
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      (2)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES includes:
         (a)   Human genitals in a state of sexual arousal or stimulation;
         (b)   Acts, or representatives of acts, or human masturbation, sexual
intercourse, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, or flagellation;
         (c)   Acts, or representations of acts, of fondling or erotic touching
of human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks, or female breasts; and
         (d)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any
activities set forth in divisions (C)(2)(a) or (C)(2)(b) above.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-19.1) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES ON PREMISES.
    No license or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent, or
employee of such licensee shall engage in any activity or conduct, or suffer or
permit any other person to engage in any activity or conduct, in or about the
licensed premises, which is prohibited by this code or by any law of the state
or of the United States.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-20) Penalty, see §
111.99
RETAIL LICENSES
§ 111.25 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, words and phrases used in this
chapter shall be construed as they are defined in Article I of the state’s
Liquor Control Act (235 ILCS 5/1-1 through 1-3.42) or as defined below.
   COUNTY. The part of Tazewell County which lies outside of any city, village,
or incorporated town.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, club, association, or corporation.
   PREMISES. The area within a building for which a license to sell alcoholic
liquor is issued and which is actually used in connection with the storage,
preparation, and sale of alcoholic liquor, but specifically excluding any
outside areas such as patios, open porches, roof tops, balconies, stoops,
sidewalks, yards, driveways, parking lots, and similar outside areas. With
respect to Subclass “T” licenses, PREMISES shall mean in its entirety the
location for which a license is issued including the area within any buildings
thereon and all outside areas upon the premises of said location for which a
license is issued.
   TO SELL or SALE. Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner, or by any
means whatsoever, including, but not limited to, the providing of alcoholic
beverages to any person who has been first required to pay an admission fee to
any premises or who has been first required to pay a flat fee for participation
in any activity, without regard to whether or not an additional charge is made
upon the actual serving of any such alcoholic beverage.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-1)
§ 111.26 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, either by himself herself or his or her
agent , or for any person acting as an agent, barkeeper, clerk, or servant of
another, to sell or offer for sale at retail within the county, any alcoholic
liquor without having first obtained a license therefor, as hereinafter
provided. It shall likewise be unlawful for any such person to sell or offer
for sale any alcoholic liquor other than as provided in this chapter and the
state’s Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., as amended.
(235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.) (Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-2) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.27 LICENSES-TERM, CLASSIFICATIONS, FEES, AND NUMBERS.
   (A)   All licenses, except as hereinafter provided, shall be annual licenses
expiring June 30 following their issuance, and shall state thereon the name of
the licensee, the class of the license, the address and description of the
premises for which it is granted, and the date of its issuance.
   (B)   Licenses to sell alcoholic liquor at retail shall be of the following
classes.
      (1)   Class “A” licenses. Class “A” licenses shall authorize the sale at
retail of alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises described in the
license. A Class “A” license shall also permit the sale of alcoholic liquor at
retail in original packages for consumption off the premises described in the
license.
      (2)   Class “B” licenses. Class “B” licenses shall authorize the sale at
retail of alcoholic liquor in original packages, but not for consumption on the
premises described in the license.
      (3)   Class “C” licenses. Class “C” licenses shall authorize the sale at
retail of beer by a Club (defined in 235 ILCS 5/1-3.24) for consumption on the
premises.
      (4)   Class “V” licenses. Class “V” licenses shall authorize the sale at
retail of alcoholic beverages by a duly organized veterans organization,
created or recognized by acts of Congress of the United States at such a
veterans organization. Such licenses shall be otherwise subject to the same
provisions as Class “A” licenses.
      (5)   Class and Subclass “T” licenses. Class “T” licenses shall authorize
the sale at retail of alcoholic, malt, and vinaceous beverages at retail by the
licensee at picnics, festivals, dinners, or similar events for a period of not
to exceed six days. Any such Class “T” license when issued, shall state thereon
the name of the licensee, the class and subclass of the license, the address
and description of the premises for which it is granted, the date of its
issuance, and the duration of said license. Subclass “T” licenses are hereby
created as follows:
         (a)   Subclass “T-1” licenses shall exist for issuance to licenses
when the number of patrons expected or who actually frequent the licensed
premises per day is between 1 and 250 persons;
         (b)   Subclass “T-2” licenses shall exist for issuance to licensees
when the number of patrons expected or who actually frequent the licensed
premises per day is between 251 and 750 persons; and
         (c)   Subclass “T-3” licenses shall exist for issuance to licensees
when the number of patrons expected or who actually frequent the licensed
premises per day exceeds 750 persons.
   (C)   The combined total of Class “A” and “B” licenses to be issued and in
effect at one time shall not exceed 28 in number. The total of Class “C”
licenses to be issued and in effect at one time shall not exceed five in
number. The total of Class “V” licenses to be issued and in effect at one time
shall not exceed eight in number. The total number of Subclass “T” licenses
which shall be issued or in effect at one time shall rest in the discretion of
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (D)   The annual fees for the various classes of annual licenses and the
fees for temporary licenses shall be as follows:
      (1)   Class “A”: $900;
      (2)   Class “B”: $800;
      (3)   Class “C”: $200;
      (4)   Class “V”: $100;
      (5)   Subclass “T-1”: $25 per day;
      (6)   Subclass “T-2”: $100 per day; and
      (7)   Subclass “T-3”: $1,000 per day.
   (E)   With respect to Class “A”, “B”, “C”, and “V” licenses, all fees are
payable in cash or by certified check at the office of the County Clerk, and
half of the annual fee shall be paid when the initial application for license
or application for renewal of license is filed, and half shall be paid on or
before December 31. The fee accompanying an initial application for license
shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar months which have expired
in the licensed year prior to the filing of the application. This license fee
shall be refunded if a license is not issued; but if a license is issued, no
portion of the fee paid shall be refundable. If a license is issued to the
purchaser of a licensed business, no such purchaser shall be credited with any
portion of the fee previously paid by the seller.
   (F)   (1)   All license fees for any Subclass “T” license shall be payable
in advance in cash or by certified check at the office of the County Clerk and
the type of subclass license issued shall be based upon a sworn statement of
the applicant as to the number of persons expected to patronize the license
premises each day.
      (2)   However, if upon inspection by the County Sheriff’s Department,
County Health Department, or any individual or entity designated by the Liquor
Control Commissioner, it is determined that more persons patronized the
licensed premises than declared by the licensee so as to require the payment of
a higher license fee as provided herein, there shall become immediately due and
payable the higher fee in accordance with this section. Failure to so pay the
additional fee upon demand by the Local Control Commissioner or his or her
agent shall constitute grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of the
license, pending hearing. In any event, the failure to so pay any required fee
shall give rise to the institution of a civil action by the county against any
individual responsible for any such additional fee.
   (G)   No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall authorize the sale at
retail within the county of any alcoholic liquor until such a time as a liquor
license is obtained by the applicant from the state’s Liquor Control
Commission.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-3) (Number of “A” and “B” licenses increased from 26 to 28
eff. May 28, 2003) (Number of “V” licenses increased from six to eight eff.
July 30, 2003)
§ 111.28 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS.
   An applicant for a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail shall file a
written application, under oath, in the office of the County Clerk stating:
   (A)   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in case of a co-partnership, the names, ages, and addresses of the
persons entitled to share in the profits thereof; and in the case of a
corporation or a club, the date of incorporation, the objects for which it was
organized, the names, ages, and addresses of the officers and directors, and
the names, ages, and addresses of all persons owning stock in the corporation
or club, and the name, age, and address of the manager of the premises proposed
for license;
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth, and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant, and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
   (D)   The length of time that the applicant has been in business of that
character, or in case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued;
   (E)   The amount of goods, wares, and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
   (F)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to operate under such license;
   (G)   Whether the applicant has made a similar application for a similar
other license on premises other than those described in the application, and
the disposition for such application;
   (H)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony or
misdemeanor of any kind, or is otherwise disqualified to receive a license by
reason of any matter or thing contained in this chapter or in the state’s
Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.;
   (I)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government, has been revoked and the reasons therefor;
   (J)   That the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the state or of
the United States in the conduct of his or her place of business;
   (K)   The length of time the applicant has resided in the county, prior to
filing the application, or if the applicant is a corporation, the length of
time the manager of the premises proposed for license has resided in the county
prior to filing the application;
   (L)   Whether the premises proposed for license are within 100 feet of any
church, school, hospital, or home for aged or indigent persons;
   (M)   If said application is made in behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club, or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to
by at least two members of such partnership or the president and secretary of
such corporation;
   (N)   The applicant shall submit with the application documentary proof of
his or her interest in the premises, whether by lease, deed, or otherwise, and
if the applicant is the owner of the premises, he or she shall submit copies of
all outstanding mortgages against the premises proposed for license; and
   (O)   The applicant shall submit with the application documentary proof of
adequate dram shop liability insurance covering the premises proposed for
license.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-4)
§ 111.29 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All initial applications for license to sell alcoholic beverages at
retail shall be filed in the office of the County Clerk.
   (B)   The County Clerk shall forward copies of all initial applications to
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and to the Sheriff, and the Sheriff shall
then cause a thorough investigation to be made into the fitness and eligibility
of the applicant. Said investigation shall include photographing and
fingerprinting the applicant and any manager of premises proposed for license.
   (C)   Within 30 days of his or her receipt of the application, the Sheriff
shall report to the Local Liquor Commissioner in writing the results of his or
her investigation, along with his or her recommendation whether the application
should be granted or denied or held for further investigation, including the
reasons for such recommendation.
   (D)   Within ten days of the receipt of the investigation report and
recommendation of the Sheriff, the Local Liquor Commissioner shall notify the
applicant that his or her application is granted, denied, or held for further
investigation. The period of such additional investigation shall not exceed an
additional 30 days unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. Upon the
conclusion of such additional investigation, the Local Liquor Commissioner
shall advise the applicant in writing whether the application is granted or
denied.
   (E)   Whenever an application is denied or held for further investigation,
the Local Liquor Commission shall advise the applicant of the reasons for such
action.
   (F)   The failure or refusal of the applicant to timely deliver any books,
records, or other documents, or to give any information relevant to the
investigation of the application, or his or her refusal to submit the
photographing and fingerprinting, or his or her refusal of failure to appear at
any reasonable time and place for examination under oath regarding said
application, shall constitute an admission by the applicant that he or she is
ineligible for such license and shall be grounds for denial thereof.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-5)
§ 111.30 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license shall be issued to any of the following:
   (A)   A person who has not been a resident of the county for at least 90
days immediately preceding the filing of the application;
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
state, another state, or the federal government;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or who is keeping
a house of ill fame;
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality, including gambling;
   (G)   A person whose license issued under the chapter or the state’s Liquor
Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq. has been revoked for cause;
   (H)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon an initial
application;
   (I)   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of such co-partnership are
qualified to obtain a license;
   (J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock of such
corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any
reason other the citizenship and residence within the county; or if the
corporation is not qualified to transact business in the state;
   (K)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of a
licensee;
   (L)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning sale of alcoholic liquor, subsequent to the passage of the
state’s Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., or who shall have
forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation;
   (M)   A person who does not own the premises proposed to be licensed, or
does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is to
be issued;
   (N)   Any law-enforcing public official, any mayor, alderman, or member of
the city council or commission, any president or member of a village board or
trustees, or any chairperson or member of a county board;
   (O)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   (P)   A person to whom a federal gaming device stamp or federal wagering
stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax period;
   (Q)   A co-partnership to which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period, or if any of the partners have been issued a federal gaming device
stamp or a federal wagering stamp by the federal government for the current tax
period;
   (R)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof, of any
stockholder owing in the aggregate more than 20% of the stock of such
corporation has been issued a federal gaming stamp or a federal wagering stamp
for the current tax period; or
   (S)   A person, if the premises proposed for license are within 100 feet of
any church, school, hospital, or home for the aged or indigent persons.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-6)
§ 111.31 FRONTAGE CONSENT.
   No license permitting the sale of alcoholic liquors shall be issued by the
Local Control Commissioner unless the owner or owners of at least two-thirds of
the frontage foot (along the street or road and streets and roads adjacent to
such place of business for which a license is sought for a distance of 200 feet
in each direction from such proposed place of business) shall file with the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner his or her, its, or their written consent to
such place for the sale of alcoholic liquors.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-6A)
§ 111.32 HEALTH CERTIFICATION.
   All applicants for any liquor licenses provided herein must submit to the
Liquor Control Commissioner certification from the County Health Department
that the premises comply with all applicable state and local health laws, and
specifically, that with respect to Subclass “T” licenses that provision has
been made for compliance with all state and local health laws taking into
consideration the number or persons expected on a daily basis to patronize the
licensed premises.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-6B)
§ 111.33 PROOF OF SAFE CONDITIONS.
   If deemed necessary by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, the applicant
shall, upon request of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, present proof to
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner that the proposed operation of a licensed
business is so designed and planned so as not to create or exacerbate existing
hazardous conditions of any nature which would be injurious to the health,
safety, or welfare of others. Failure to supply requested information or after
review of such information, the making of a finding by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner of a resultant hazard if a license were issued, shall be deemed
sufficient ground for the denial of issuance of a license.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-6C)
§ 111.34 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A licensee who is a holder of a Class “A”, “B”, “C”, or “V” license
may file, under oath, an application for renewal of such an annual license in
the office of the County Clerk between May 15 and May 31, accompanied by the
proper license fee.
   (B)   An application for renewal of license shall contain the following:
      (1)   A statement of when the initial application for license was filed;
      (2)   A statement that the applicant for renewal has re-read the initial
application and is familiar with the contents thereof; and
      (3)   A statement whether any of the information contained in the initial
application has changed, and if so, the nature and extent of the changes.
   (C)   A license shall not be renewed unless the licensee is then qualified
to receive a license and unless the premises for which the renewal is sought
are suitable for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at retail.
   (D)   A licensee who fails to file an application for renewal of license as
herein provided shall be deemed to have forfeited and abandoned his or her
license, and no renewal thereof shall be permitted. Any such license so
forfeited and abandoned shall not be re-issued, and any person thereafter
seeking to procure a license for the premises shall be considered as a new
applicant.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as creating a
vested right in a license which would prevent the County Board from reducing
the number of the various classes of licenses to be issued within the county.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-7)
§ 111.35 PRIVILEGES GRANTED BY LICENSE.
   (A)   A license issued under this chapter shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor or beer only in the premises described in the application and license,
and only under the conditions and restrictions imposed in this chapter on the
particular class of license described therein.
   (B)   Such license shall not be subject to attachment, garnishment, or
execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferrable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but shall
cease upon the death of the licensee; provided that the executors,
administrators, or the estate of any deceased licensee and the trustees of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor under the
order of the appropriate court and may exercise the privileges of the deceased
or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent or such
insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of the license but not longer
than six months after the death, bankruptcy, or insolvency of such licensee.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-8)
§ 111.36 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee shall cause his or her license or licenses to be framed and
hung in plain view in a conspicuous place in the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-9)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any reason to violate any provision of this
chapter. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, for a
first offense, be guilty of a petty offense and fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500, and for a second or subsequent offense, be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor, as defined in the state’s Unified Code of Corrections, 730 ILCS 5/
1-1-1 et seq. Each day such violation occurs or continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense hereunder.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties set forth in division (A) above, any
licensee or applicant for a license who violates any provision of this chapter
or of the state’s Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq. or of the
criminal laws of the state, another state, or the federal government, or who
makes misstatements or withholds any information in an application for license
or renewal thereof, or who refuses of fails to comply with requests for
information made by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, shall have his or
her license revoked and his or her application for license or renewal denied.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 1-21)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
Section
Raffle Licenses
   
112.01   Authority
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Raffles prohibited without license
   
112.04   Application for license
   
112.05   Decision on application
   
112.06   Eligibility for license
   
112.07   Duration of license
   
112.08   License fees
   
112.09   Conduct of raffles
   
112.10   Raffles Manager
   
112.11   Records
   
112.12   Limitation of authority
Video Gaming Licenses
   
112.25   Definitions
   
112.26   State licensing required
   
112.27   Required liquor license
   
112.28   Fees
   
112.29   Registration requirements and procedures
   
112.30   Use of terminals
 
   
112.99   Penalty
RAFFLE LICENSES
§ 112.01 AUTHORITY.
   The licensing provisions in this subchapter were passed by the County Board
pursuant to the Raffles and Poker Runs Act, being 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 2-1)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses
who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial, and
civic interests of a community.
   CHARITABLE. An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit
an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   EDUCATIONAL. An organization or institution organized and operated to
provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common
to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope
and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-supported schools.
   FRATERNAL. An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
   LABOR. An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees, and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   NON-PROFIT. An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-
for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to any one as a result of the
operation.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in § 28-2(b) of the Criminal Code of
2012, being 720 ILCS 5/28-2(b), conducted by an organization licensed under
this subchapter, in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; and
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   RELIGIOUS. Any church, congregation, society, or organization founded for
the purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS. An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows, or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 2-2)
§ 112.03 RAFFLES PROHIBITED WITHOUT LICENSE.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall conduct raffles or chances in the
county outside of the borders of any municipality without having first obtained
a license therefor pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 2-3)
§ 112.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   The license and application for license must specify the area or areas
within the county outside of the borders of any municipality in which raffle
chances will be sold or issued, the time period during which raffle chances
will be sold or issued, the time of determination of winning chances, and the
location or locations at which winning chances will be determined.
   (B)   The license application must contain a sworn statement attesting to
the not-for-profit character of the prospective licensee organization, signed
by the presiding officer and the secretary of that organization.
   (C)   A license only authorizes the licensee to conduct raffles as defined
in this subchapter.
   (D)   Applications must include the following information:
      (1)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise to be
awarded by a licensee in a single raffle;
      (2)   The retail value of each prize to be awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle;
      (3)   The price which will be charged for each raffle chance issued or
sold; and
      (4)   The day or days during which chances may be issued or sold.
   (E)   Application forms shall be available to the public at the office of
the County Clerk and completed applications are to be submitted at the same
location.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 2-4)
§ 112.05 DECISION ON APPLICATION.
   The County Board grants the County Board Chairperson the authority to act on
license applications. As required by the Raffles and Poker Runs Act, being 230
ILCS 150/0.01 et seq., the County Board Chairperson shall act on all license
applications within 30 days from the date of application.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 2-5)
§ 112.06 ELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Licenses shall be issued only to:
      (1)   Bona fide religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal,
educational, or veterans organizations that operate without profit to their
members and which have been in existence continuously for a period of five
years immediately before making application for a license and which have had
during that entire five-year period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying
out their objects; or
      (2)   To a non-profit fund raising organization that the licensing
authority determines is organized for the sole purpose of providing financial
assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals suffering
extreme financial hardship as the result of an illness, disability, accident,
or disaster.
   (B)   As required by the Raffles and Poker Runs Act, being 230 ILCS 150/0.01
et seq., the following are ineligible for any license under this subchapter:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      (4)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (B)
(1) through (B)(3) above has a proprietary, equitable, or credit interest, or
in which such a person is active or employed;
      (5)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (B)(1)
through (B)(3) above is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated
or not; and
      (6)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (B)(1)
through (B)(3) above is to participate in the management or operation of a
raffle as defined in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 2-6)
§ 112.07 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be valid for one raffle or
for a specified number of raffles to be conducted during a specified period not
to exceed one year and may be suspended or revoked for any violation of this
subchapter or the Raffles and Poker Runs Act, being 230 ILCS 150/0.01 et seq.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 2-7)
§ 112.08 LICENSE FEES.
   No fee shall be required for the granting of a license under this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 2-8)
§ 112.09 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   (A)   The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted
to the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
      (2)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
      (3)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle.
      (4)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this subchapter.
      (5)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
      (6)   A person under the age of 18 years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances only with the permission of a parent or
guardian. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the area where
winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his or her parent
or guardian.
   (B)   If a lessor rents premises where a winning chance or chances on a
raffle are determined, the lessor shall not be criminally liable if the person
who uses the premises for the determining of winning chances does not hold a
license issued by the governing body of any county or municipality under the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 2-9)
§ 112.10 RAFFLES MANAGER.
   All operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision
of a single raffles manager designated by the organization. The manager shall
give a fidelity bond in an amount determined by the County Board Chairperson in
favor of the organization conditioned upon his or her honesty in the
performance of his or her duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice
shall be given in writing to the licensing authority not less than 30 days
prior to its cancellation. The County Board Chairperson may waive this bond
requirement by including a waiver provision in the license issued to an
organization under this subchapter; provided, that a license containing such
waiver provision shall be granted only by unanimous vote of the members of the
licensed organization.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 2-10)
§ 112.11 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose,
amount, and date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the state’s Department of Revenue and
placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have separate records of
its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses, and net
proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who
accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report promptly
after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership, and to the County Clerk,
its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and the
distribution of net proceeds itemized as required in this section.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years,
and organizations shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 2-11)
§ 112.12 LIMITATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize the conducting or
operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity, or device other than
raffles as provided for herein.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 2-13)
VIDEO GAMING LICENSES
§ 112.25 DEFINITIONS.
   All of the definitions, provisions, requirements, and licensing mandates of
the Video Gaming Act at 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq. (hereinafter, “the Video Gaming
Act”) and any regulations promulgated by the state’s Gaming Board pursuant to
the Video Gaming Act, being 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq. shall apply to the terms of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 3-1)
§ 112.26 STATE LICENSING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any licensed establishment, licensed fraternal establishment, licensed
veterans establishment, or licensed truck stop establishment which has been
issued a license from the state’s Gaming Board under the Video Gaming Act,
being 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq. for use or operation of a video gaming terminal may
utilize such terminals only after also obtaining a license from the county for
the use or operation of video gaming terminals.
   (B)   All video gaming terminals must be operated in accordance with the
terms of this subchapter, the terms of the Video Gaming Act, being 230 ILCS 40/
1 et seq. and the terms of regulations promulgated by the state’s Gaming Board.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 3-2)
§ 112.27 REQUIRED LIQUOR LICENSE.
   Any applicant for a video gaming license with the exception of a truck stop
shall also possess a valid liquor license issued under the state’s Liquor
Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq. and Chapter 111.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 3-3)
§ 112.28 FEES.
   (A)   The initial registration fee for a county video gaming license shall
be $25 per proposed video gaming terminal.
   (B)   Licensees shall be required to annually register video gaming
terminals with the County Clerk and pay the registration fee to the County
Clerk. The annual registration renewal fee for a video gaming terminal shall
also be $25 per proposed video gaming terminal.
   (C)   Following initial registration, licensees shall be required to again
register and pay the $25 fee one year from the date of initial registration and
every year thereafter that the licensee continues to own or operate video
gaming terminals.
   (D)   All registration fees must be paid at the time of application or
renewal.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 3-5)
§ 112.29 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All initial registration of video gaming terminals shall be completed
at the office of the County Clerk.
   (B)   Any person or establishment or business seeking to register a video
gaming terminal in the county shall first obtain a license for the operation of
gaming terminals from the state’s Gaming Board pursuant to the Video Gaming
Act, being 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
   (C)   Following successful licensure from the state’s Gaming Board pursuant
to the Video Gaming Act, being 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., that licensee shall
present the following to the county at the office of the County Clerk:
      (1)   A copy of the video gaming terminal operating license issued by the
state’s Gaming Board;
      (2)   A registration form approved by the County Clerk containing the
name and address of the registrant, the name and address of the business or
establishment where a video gaming terminal will be located or operated, and
the number of video gaming terminals to be located or operated at said business
or establishment; and
      (3)   A fee in the amount indicated in §
112.28.
   (D)   Any licensed establishment, licensed fraternal organization, licensed
truck stop, or licensed veterans organization seeking to renew a county video
gaming license shall provide all of the information required for the initial
county video gaming registration in its updated form.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 3-6)
§ 112.30 USE OF TERMINALS.
   (A)   No person or establishment shall use, operate, or permit the use or
operation of a video gaming terminal without both obtaining a valid state
Gaming Board video gaming license and completing the required registration of
video gaming terminals in the county.
   (B)   Upon issuance of a state Gaming Board license and proper registration
of video gaming terminals in the county, the use or operation of any video
gaming terminal shall be subject to and limited to the terms, conditions,
requirements, rules, and hours set forth in the Video Gaming Act, being 230
ILCS 40/1 et seq. and in regulations promulgated by the state’s Gaming Board.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 3-7)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of §§
112.01 through
112.12 shall be a petty offense punishable by a maximum fine of $1,000.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 2-12)
   (C)   (1)   Any and each violation of §§
112.25 through
112.30 shall be a petty offense punishable by a fine of up to $500.
      (2)   Any violation of §§
112.25 through
112.30 shall constitute an ordinance violation as indicated under §
111.12 and may result in the immediate revocation of any license issued
pursuant to Chapter 111.
      (3)   Any violation of §§
112.25 through
112.30 shall be reported forthwith to the state’s Gaming Board.
(Prior Code, 3 TCC 3-8)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   USE OF COUNTY PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: USE OF COUNTY PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Intent
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Compliance
   
130.04   County property
   
130.05   Littering
   
130.06   Prohibited behavior
   
130.07   Games of chance
   
130.08   Disorderly conduct
   
130.09   Indecent, lewd, or obscene conduct
   
130.10   Carrying dangerous weapons
   
130.11   Merchandising, advertising, and signs
   
130.12   Designated areas in the Courthouse Square
   
130.13   General rules for special use of Courthouse Square
   
130.14   Protection of Courthouse Square and designation of areas not
accessible to the public
   
130.15   Public areas of the Courthouse
   
130.16   Use of the county boardroom
   
130.17   Non-public areas of the Courthouse
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to regulate the use of the County Courthouse
and the area commonly referred to as the County Courthouse Square.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY. The County of Tazewell, a body politic and corporate.
   COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the County Board consistent
with §§
30.01 through
30.10.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Tazewell County.
   COUNTY COURTHOUSE. The building improvement located within the area bounded
by __________, _______, ________, and ________, all located in the City of
Pekin, Tazewell County.
   COUNTY COURTHOUSE SQUARE. The area bounded by ______, ________, ______, and
________, all located in the City of Pekin, Tazewell County, excluding the
building improvement commonly known as the Tazewell County Courthouse.
   COUNTY SHERIFF. The person duly elected by the citizens of the county who is
authorized to enforce the laws of the state and all county ordinances,
including this chapter.
   MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR. The person in charge of the county’s Facilities
Maintenance Department who is responsible for the care and maintenance of the
County Courthouse and the County Courthouse Square.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental unit, company, or organization of any kind.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 130.03 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All persons within the County Courthouse and within the County
Courthouse Square shall comply with this chapter, and if any such person fails
to comply with this chapter, they shall be subject to prosecution consistent
with the laws of the state and the County Code. The County Sheriff or any peace
officer is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Sheriff, the County Administrator, and the Maintenance Supervisor
shall have the authority to eject any person from the Courthouse or the
Courthouse Square for violating any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 130.04 COUNTY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Courthouse and Courthouse Square.
      (1)   No person shall willfully deface, disfigure, tamper with or
displace, or remove any building, fountain, sidewalks, benches, walls,
sprinklers, paving stones, paving material, water line, or other utilities or
parts or pertinence thereof, signs, notices, or placards whether temporary or
permanent, equipment, facilities, county property, or appurtenances wherever,
either real or personal, located within the Courthouse or the Courthouse
Square.
   (B)   Restrooms and washrooms.
      (1)   No person shall fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and
washrooms in a neat and sanitary condition.
      (2)   No person shall use the restrooms or washrooms for purposes of
bathing or shaving.
   (C)   Removal of natural resources. No person shall use, dig, or remove any
soil, rocks, stones, trees, shrubs, plants, wood, or materials or make any
excavation by tool, equipment, blasting, or other means or agency located
within the Courthouse Square.
   (D)   Erection of structures. No unauthorized person shall construct or
erect a building or structure of whatever kind in the Courthouse Square,
whether permanent or temporary in character, or run or string any public
service utility into, onto, or across such lands, except upon special written
permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   Trees, shrubbery, and lawns.
      (1)   Injury and removal. No unauthorized person shall damage, cut,
carve, transplant, or remove any tree or plant or injure the bark, or pick the
flowers or seeds of any tree or plant. Nor shall any unauthorized person attach
a rope, wire, or other contrivance to any tree or plant. No person shall dig in
or otherwise disturb grassy areas, or in any way injure or impair the natural
beauty or usefulness of any area.
      (2)   Climbing trees, and the like. No person shall climb any tree or
walk, stand, or sit upon any monuments, fences, fountains, or other property
not designated or customarily used for such purposes located in the Courthouse
Square.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 LITTERING.
   No person shall throw, discard, or leave any unconsumed substance or waste
in the Courthouse or the Courthouse Square. Litter may include, but is not
limited to, any garbage, trash, debris, rubbish, glass, metal, plastic, or
paper containers or other packaging material, any nauseous or offensive
material of any kind, any object likely to injure any person, or anything else
of any unsightly or unsanitary nature. All such litter must be appropriately
disposed of in appropriate containers intended for the deposit of said litter.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   Intoxicating beverages and controlled substances.
      (1)   No person shall use, possess, or be under the influence of any
alcoholic beverages in the Courthouse or in the Courthouse Square unless
specifically authorized by action of the County Board, the County
Administrator, or the Sheriff.
      (2)   No person shall use, possess, or be under the influence of any
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (720 ILCS 570/
100 et seq.) or of cannabis, as defined in the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS
550/1 et seq).
   (B)   Fireworks, explosives, or rockets. No unauthorized person shall bring
or have in his or her possession or set off or cause to explode or discharge or
burn any firecrackers, torpedoes, other fireworks or explosives of inflammable
materials, or any type of rocket or model rocket, or discharge, launch, or
throw them into areas, from land or highway adjacent thereto. This prohibition
includes any substance, compound, mixture, or article in conjunction with any
other substance or compound which would be dangerous from any of the foregoing
standpoints.
   (C)   Skateboards and other recreational vehicles prohibited on county
property. See §
93.20.
   (D)   Fires. No unauthorized person shall build or attempt to build a fire
in the Courthouse Square except in such areas and under such regulations as may
be designated by the County Administrator. No person shall drop, throw, or
otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes, cigars, tobacco paper,
or other flammable material within the Courthouse or within the Courthouse
Square.
   (E)   Obstruction of public ways. No unauthorized person shall stand, sit,
lie down, or otherwise obstruct pedestrian or motor vehicular traffic in any
public way located in the Courthouse Square.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 GAMES OF CHANCE.
   No person shall gamble or participate in any game of chance within the
Courthouse or the Courthouse Square except with written permission of the
County Administrator.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person in the Courthouse or the Courthouse Square shall engage in loud,
boisterous, threatening, abusive, insulting, or indecent language, or engage in
any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to be a breach of the public peace.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 INDECENT, LEWD, OR OBSCENE CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall perform any of the following acts in the Courthouse or
the Courthouse Square where the conduct may be expected to be viewed by others:
      (1)   An act of sexual intercourse;
      (2)   Exposure of the body or any of its parts with the intent to shock
any other person or the intent to arouse or satisfy the sexual desires of that
person or of another person; or
      (3)   Lewd touching, fondling, or caressing of one’s body or of the body
of another.
   (B)   No person shall commit an obscenity nor solicit a sexual act from
another.
   (C)   The term within the meaning of this provision shall have those
meanings as set forth in the state’s Criminal Code.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 CARRYING DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   No person, except Sheriff personnel and other duly authorized law
enforcement officers, shall possess, have or carry any pistol, firearm, knife,
switchblade, hunting knife, dagger, metal knuckles, bludgeon, karate sticks,
sling shot, or other dangerous weapon while in the Courthouse or Courthouse
Square. For purposes of this section, a KNIFE is an instrument with a blade
greater than one and one-half inches in length.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 MERCHANDISING, ADVERTISING, AND SIGNS.
   (A)   Vending and peddling.
      (1)   No person in the Courthouse and the Courthouse Square shall expose
or offer for sale any article or thing, nor shall a person station or place any
stand, cart, or vehicle for the transportation, sale, or display of any such
article or thing except with the consent of the County Administrator.
      (2)   Any vendor who has obtained a license to convey food or beverage in
the City of Pekin on a sidewalk adjacent to the Courthouse Square will not sell
either food or beverages in glass or styrofoam containers. Additionally, any
such person shall execute a consent for sidewalk or street vendors application
on forms supplied by the County Administrator.
      (3)   No vendor shall block or obstruct any public way in the Courthouse
Square or which provides access into the Courthouse Square.
      (4)   No person in the County Courthouse or the Courthouse Square shall
advertise or call to the public’s attention in any way any article or service
for sale or hire, except as specifically authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   Signs. No person in the Courthouse or the Courthouse Square shall
paste, glue, tack, or otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement, or other
inscription whatsoever, nor shall any person erect or cause to be erected any
sign whatsoever except with prior written authorization from the County
Administrator.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 DESIGNATED AREAS IN THE COURTHOUSE SQUARE.
   (A)   That portion of the Courthouse Square located at is hereby designated
as the site for such lawful meetings, gatherings, and assemblages of every kind
that are either directly or indirectly of a political nature or which in any
way involve matters of public issue, as may be held in accordance with the
provisions of this section. All such meetings, gatherings, and assemblages
shall be confined to this particular area.
   (B)   The other areas of the Courthouse Square shall be used for other
events and activities as the County Administrator deems compatible with the
purposes of and in accordance with this chapter and this section including, but
not limited to, art exhibits, scientific displays, dramatic presentations, or
other events of a similar nature. Denials for use of the Courthouse Square may
be appealed to the Executive Committee of the County Board. Any such appeal
shall be filed with the Committee within seven days after receipt of the
Administrator’s denial.
   (C)   The use of the Courthouse Square shall be in compliance with all
federal, state, and local statutes, laws, ordinances, and regulations.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 130.13 GENERAL RULES FOR SPECIAL USE OF COURTHOUSE SQUARE.
   (A)   Requests for special use of the Courthouse Square shall be made in
writing to the County Administrator on forms provided by the Administrator.
These forms shall be completed and be delivered to the County Administrator’s
office at least one week prior to the intended use of the Courthouse Square.
These forms can be obtained from the County Administrator’s office.
   (B)   No special use of the Courthouse Square shall commence prior to 6:00
a.m. and shall be completed no later than 10:00 p.m.
   (C)   All decisions as to events rests with the County Administrator. Any
applicant may appeal the decision of the Administrator to the Executive
Committee of the County Board within seven days after receipt of the
Administrator’s decision.
   (D)   No admission charge may be charged for any event or use of the
Courthouse Square.
   (E)   No solicitation for membership or for donations of any group or
organization may be made at any time within the area of the Courthouse Square.
   (F)   No food or beverages may be sold within the areas of the Courthouse
Square without prior approval of the County Administrator.
   (G)   The sale, distribution, or consumption of alcoholic beverages is
prohibited within the area of the Courthouse Square.
   (H)   Items of any exhibit or display may not be offered for sale without
the consent of the County Administrator. Items sold may not be removed from the
exhibit until the end of the exhibit period.
   (I)   Neither the Courthouse nor the Courthouse Square shall be used to
store any equipment, materials, or exhibits. Any such storage is to be provided
by the user or exhibitor.
   (J)   The erection of any platforms, stalls, benches, tables, plus the
erection of signs, banners, pennants, sound systems, and the like must have
prior approval from the Maintenance Supervisor.
   (K)   Such users of the Courthouse Square shall be responsible for all
expenses that may be incurred in connection with special events; such expense
shall include, but not be limited to, erection or removal of platforms, tables,
chairs, signs, banners, pennants, sound system, special lighting, and cleanup
and restoration of premises to the same condition as prior to any such special
use.
   (L)   Users of the Courthouse Square shall follow good housekeeping rules
and be responsible for the removal of refuse during any event and the area of
the Courthouse Square shall be left clean and in good order. Adequate refuse
containers will be provided for use by the users of the Courthouse Square.
   (M)   Children or minors brought to the premises by users must be supervised
at all times during any event on the Courthouse Square.
   (N)   Such users of the Courthouse Square shall provide all protection as
may be needed to safeguard the premises against any and all damage to persons
or property arising from the reasonable contemplated use of the premises.
   (O)   Such users of the Courthouse Square shall indemnify and hold harmless
the County Board, its employees, agents, and assigns against any and all loss,
damages, or expenses to persons or property of the county or a third party
arising out of or who claims to have arisen out of any such use of the
Courthouse Square.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 PROTECTION OF COURTHOUSE SQUARE AND DESIGNATION OF AREAS NOT
ACCESSIBLE TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   The Courthouse Square shall be open to the public from 6:00 a.m. until
10:00 p.m. each day. No person shall remain in the Courthouse Square except
during those hours when the Courthouse Square is open to the public.
   (B)   In order to protect public property within the Courthouse Square, no
persons shall have access to the following areas located in the Courthouse
Square except as specifically designated herein:
      (1)   Those areas where underground utilities are located and maintained;
      (2)   Those areas where grass, trees, flowers, and shrubs are planted and
maintained; and
      (3)   Those areas where vents and other exhaust devices are located and
maintained.
    (C)   No person shall stand, sit, lie down, sleep, maintain property
thereon, or otherwise obstruct any of the areas designated in this section.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to the Sheriff, Sheriff personnel,
employees of the county, or such other authorized agents as approved by the
County Administrator.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.15 PUBLIC AREAS OF THE COURTHOUSE.
   (A)   The public areas of the Courthouse for the purposes of this section
are defined to be the lobby area on the ground floor of the County Courthouse
and the entrance area located at the Court Street entrance on the first floor
of the Courthouse.
   (B)   Members of the public may request and utilize these areas for the
purpose of the public displays or public exhibits. Such request must be
submitted in writing to the County Administrator on forms provided by the
Administrator. Written requests for use of these public areas must be received
by the County Administrator at least one week prior to the event. Any applicant
may appeal the decision of the Administrator to the Executive Committee within
seven days after receipt of the Administrator’s decision.
   (C)   These forms may be obtained from the Administrator’s office.
   (D)   Any such displays or exhibits must be sponsored by a county department
or a county agency.
   (E)   The subject matter of the display or exhibit must be of interest to
the general public as a whole and cannot be offensive to the average person
based on general community standards.
   (F)   The actual placement of lobby displays or tables in these public areas
is subject to approval of the Facilities Manager and the Sheriff for
consideration of public health and safety purposes.
   (G)   No items on exhibit or display may be offered for sale.
   (H)   The organization displaying the exhibit shall be responsible to erect
and remove the displays and is obligated to provide the materials necessary to
ensure that the display or exhibit will be displayed in a safe manner.
   (I)   No admission charge may be made to review any display or exhibit.
   (J)   No solicitation for membership or for donations to any group or
organization may be made as part of the display or exhibit.
   (K)   No food or beverage may be sold as part of the display or exhibit.
   (L)   The sale, distribution, and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages as
part of the display or exhibit is prohibited.
   (M)   Materials or items which are part of the display or exhibit will be
displayed at the sole risk of the displaying organization. The county is not
responsible for any loss or damage which may result to materials or exhibits
which are to be displayed or exhibited.
   (N)   Use of bulletin boards or the walls of the Courthouse to display
materials, posters, wall hangings, or other items which may be part of the
display or exhibit are prohibited except with the consent of the Maintenance
Supervisor.
   (O)   All displays or exhibits shall be placed in such a location in the
public areas of the Courthouse in order to ensure and maintain the operational
security of the Courthouse and the free flow of public and employee traffic
throughout the Courthouse. Displays or exhibits shall not be placed in
locations which would otherwise obstruct the free flow of pedestrian and
employee traffic throughout the Courthouse.
   (P)   Access to the public areas will be limited to the hours the Courthouse
is open.
   (Q)   The displaying agents shall indemnify and otherwise hold harmless the
Board and the county from and against any and all losses, cost, damages, or
expenses to persons or property of the county or a citizen of the county
arising out of or claim to have arisen out of a display or exhibit of the
materials or items exhibited by the displaying organization.
   (R)   The possession and use of cameras, video cameras, telephones, beepers,
cellular phones, tape recorders, other recording devices, beverages, and food
is prohibited in every area of the Courthouse where court is being held or
called into session by any Judge of the Tenth Judicial Circuit. The Chief Judge
of the Tenth Judicial Circuit may authorize exceptions to this provision.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 USE OF THE COUNTY BOARDROOM.
   (A)   Requests for use of the county boardroom by any person shall be made
in writing to the County Administrator on forms provided by the Administrator.
Any such request shall be delivered to the County Administrator at least one
week prior to the event. Forms may be obtained from the Administrator’s Office.
Any applicant may appeal the decision of the Administrator to the Executive
Committee within seven days after receipt of the Administrator’s decision.
   (B)   It is intended that the use of the county boardroom shall be limited
to lawful meetings, gatherings and assemblages of every kind that are either
directly or indirectly of a political nature or in which any way involve
matters of public issue.
   (C)   Use of the county boardroom shall be limited to the hours of 8:00 a.m.
to 10:00 p.m.
   (D)   The decision as to the schedule of events in the boardroom is within
the discretion of the County Administrator.
   (E)   No admission charge may be established for any event in the county
boardroom.
   (F)   No solicitation for membership or for donations to any group or
organization may be made at any time within the boardroom.
   (G)   No food or beverage may be sold within the areas of the boardroom
without the prior approval of the County Administrator.
   (H)   The sale, distribution, and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages is
prohibited within the boardroom.
   (I)   Any items exhibited or displayed within the boardroom may not be
offered for sale.
   (J)   Any erection of platforms, stalls, benches, tables, signs, banners,
pennants, sound systems, and similar items must be approved in advance by the
Maintenance Supervisor. The user of the boardroom shall be responsible for all
the expenses which may be incurred in connection with said use, including, but
not limited to, erection or removal of platforms, chairs, signs, banners,
pennants, sound systems, special lighting, and cleanup and restoration of the
boardroom to the same condition as prior to its use.
   (K)   The display or hanging of materials or items in the boardroom through
the use of tape, glue, nails, tacks, and the like is prohibited except with the
consent of the Maintenance Supervisor.
   (L)   The county is not responsible for any loss or damage to the user of
the boardroom of any materials or items displayed or exhibited, and the user
shall be at their sole risk for loss.
   (M)   Any user of the county boardroom shall indemnify and hold harmless the
Board and the county from and against any and all loss, cost, damages, or
expenses of persons or property of the county or third persons arising out of
or claiming to have arisen out of such use of the county boardroom.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 130.17 NON-PUBLIC AREAS OF THE COURTHOUSE.
   All other areas of the County Courthouse not specifically designated as
public areas or the county boardroom are designated as non-public areas.
   (A)   No person shall display or exhibit any material or item in the non-
public areas in the Courthouse.
   (B)   The use of these areas shall be limited to conducting business with
those departments and offices located in those areas of the Courthouse.
   (C)   Access to those non-public areas may be limited by the department head
or elected official who has been designated to use those areas.
   (D)   Any federal or state regulatory agency representatives who seek to
inspect certain areas of the Courthouse may have access to those areas by
providing advance notice to the Maintenance Supervisor.
   (E)   No persons shall have access to any non-public, non-departmental area,
including the roof of the Courthouse, without the approval of the County
Administrator and the Sheriff.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who is found violating this chapter shall be subject to the
penalties as set forth herein.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   ADULT USES
      
151.   EROSION CONTROL
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN AREAS
      
153.   WIND ENERGY
      
154.   BUILDING AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
155.   SUBDIVISION CODE
         APPENDIX A: MINIMUM ROAD DESIGN STANDARDS
         APPENDIX B: PLAT CERTIFICATES
      
156.   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
      
157.   ZONING
      
158.   AGRICULTURAL AREAS CONSERVATION AND PROTECTIONS
      
159.   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 150: ADULT USES
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Adult Use Commissioner and Adult Use Commission
   
150.04   Adult establishment licenses generally
   
150.05   Form and submittal license application
   
150.06   Processing of license application
   
150.07   Standards for issuance or denial of license
   
150.08   Inspections by county
   
150.09   Change of information
Regulations
   
150.20   Regulations applicable to all adult entertainment establishments
   
150.21   Special regulations for adult booths
   
150.22   Special regulations for adult cabarets
   
150.23   Special regulations for adult stores
   
150.24   Special regulations for adult theaters
   
150.25   Licensee responsibility for employees
   
150.26   License revocation or suspension
   
150.27   Administrative record
   
150.28   Employee registration and record keeping by licensee
   
150.29   Nuisance declared
   
150.30   Computation of time
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   County policies, see
Chapter 31
   Health and sanitation; nuisances, see
Chapter 91
   Zoning, see
Chapter 157
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, and may be referred to as, the “County Adult
Use Chapter”.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-2)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOTH. Any area of an adult entertainment establishment set off from
the remainder of such establishment by one or more walls or other dividers or
partitions and used to show, play, or otherwise demonstrate any adult materials
or to view any live performance that is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following commercial
establishments, as defined herein.
      (1)   ADULT CABARET. Any commercial establishment that as a substantial
or significant portion of its business features or provides any of the
following:
         (a)   Persons who appear semi-nude; and/or
         (b)   Live performances that are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities. Films,
motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides, computer displays, or other
visual representations or recordings of any kind that are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of
specified anatomical areas, or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual
activities.
      (2)   ADULT STORE. Any commercial establishment that contains one or more
adult booths: that as a substantial or significant portion of its business
offers for sale, rental, or viewing any adult materials; or that has a segment
or section devoted to the sale or display of adult materials.
      (3)   ADULT THEATER. Any commercial establishment that as a substantial
or significant portion of its business features or provides: films, motion
pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides, or other visual representations or
recordings that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical areas, or the
conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities; or live performances that
are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction,
or description of specified anatomical areas or the conduct or simulation of
specified sexual activities.
      (4)   BODY SHOP or MODEL STUDIO. Any commercial establishment which
describes itself as a body shop or model studio, or where for any form of
consideration or gratitude, figure models who display specified anatomical
areas are provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed, or similarly depicted by persons paying such consideration or
gratuity, or where for any form of consideration or gratuity, nude or seminude
dancing, readings, counseling sessions, body painting, and other activities
that present materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical area are provided for observation by or communication to persons
paying such consideration or gratuity.
      (5)   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any commercial establishment having a fixed
place of business where any person, firm, association, or corporation engages
in, or carries on any of the activities mentioned in the definition of massage.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS operated by a sole proprietor and no more than one
employee shall not be considered a massage establishment for purposes of
regulation under this chapter.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT EMPLOYEE. Any individual, including entertainers, who
work in or at, or render any services directly related to the operation of, an
adult entertainment establishment whether or not an employee under the Internal
Revenue Code; provided, however, that this definition shall not include a
person, who is not an employee under the Internal Revenue Code, delivering
goods, materials (other than adult materials), food, and beverages, or
performing maintenance or repairs, to the licensed premises.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE. A license issued for an adult entertainment
establishment pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT PATRON. Any individual, other than an adult
establishment employee, present in or at any adult entertainment establishment
at any time when such adult entertainment establishment is open for business;
provided, however, that this definition shall not include a person who is not
an employee under the Internal Revenue Code, delivering goods, materials (other
than adult materials), food and beverages, or performing maintenance or
repairs, to the licensed premises.
   ADULT MATERIAL. Any of the following, whether new or used:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
digitally stored materials, films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes,
slides, computer displays, or other visual representations or recordings of any
kind, that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure,
depiction, or description of specified anatomical areas, or the conduct or
simulation of specified sexual activities; and/or
      (2)   Instruments, novelties, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed
for use in connection with specified sexual activities, or that depict or
describe specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE COMMISSION. A commission appointed by the Adult Use Commissioner
pursuant to §
150.03.
   ADULT USE COMMISSIONER. The Chairperson of the County Board pursuant to §
150.03.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where admission, services, performances,
or products are provided for or upon payment of any form of consideration.
   COUNTY ZONING CODE. The ordinance known and referred to as the Tazewell
County Zoning Code, as it may be amended from time to time.
   DAYS. Calendar days, unless otherwise specifically set forth in this
chapter.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The place or location described in an adult establishment
license where an adult entertainment establishment is authorized to operate. No
sidewalks, streets, parking areas, public rights-of-way, or grounds adjacent to
any such place or location shall be included within the LICENSED PREMISES.
   LICENSEE. Any person or entity that has been issued an adult establishment
license pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on or friction against or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating of the external
soft parts of the body with the hands or other parts of the human body or with
the aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance with or without
such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils,
powder, creams, lotions, ointments or similar preparations commonly used in
this practice.
   NUDE or STATE OF NUDITY. A state of dress or undress that exposes to view:
less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals; pubic region; anus;
or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola, but not
including any portion of the cleavage of the female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel, provided
the areola is not exposed; or human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered, or any device or covering that,
when worn, simulates human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   REVIEWING DEPARTMENTS. Office of the County Sheriff, the County Health
Department, and the County Zoning Department.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress or undress in which clothing covers no more than
the genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as
portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices or by other minor
accessory apparel such as hats, gloves, and socks.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breast below a point immediately above the
top of the areola, but not including any portion of the cleavage of the female
breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other
wearing apparel, provided the areola is not exposed.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered, or any device or covering that, when worn,
simulates human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACT. Any unlawful lewd, indecent, or immoral conduct
including specifically, but without limitation, any of the lewd, indecent, or
immoral criminal acts specified in any of the following statutes:
      (1)   Article 11 of the state’s Criminal Code (sex offenses), being 720
ILCS 5/11-0.1 through 11-45;
      (2)   Section 264 of the state’s Criminal Code, 720 ILCS 5/26-4
(unauthorized videotaping);
      (3)   Section 33D-l of the state’s Criminal Code, 720 ILCS 5/12C-30
(contributing to the criminal delinquency of a juvenile);
      (4)   The Harassing and Obscene Communications Act, 720 ILCS 5/26.5-0.1
et seq.;
      (5)   The Wrongs to Children Act, 720 ILCS 150/0.01 et seq.;
      (6)   The Improper Supervision of Children Act, 720 ILCS 640/0.01 et
seq.;
      (7)   The Sale of Immoral Publications to Children Act, 720 ILCS 670/0.01
et seq.;
      (8)   The Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.; and
      (9)   The state’s Controlled Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy, bestiality, or flagellation;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or
tumescence; and/or
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (4) above.
   STRADDLE DANCE. The use by any person, including specifically, but without
limitation, an adult establishment employee, of any part of his or her body to
touch the genitals, pubic region, buttock, anus, or female breast of any adult
establishment patron or any other person, or the touching of the genitals,
pubic region, buttock, anus, or female breast of any person by any adult
establishment patron. Conduct shall be a STRADDLE DANCE regardless of whether
the touch or touching occurs while the person is displaying or exposing any
specified anatomical area. Conduct shall also be a STRADDLE DANCE regardless of
whether the touch or touching is direct or through a medium. Conduct commonly
referred to by the slang terms lap dance, table dance, and face dance shall be
included within this definition of STRADDLE DANCE.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-3)
§ 150.03 ADULT USE COMMISSIONER AND ADULT USE COMMISSION.
   (A)   Adult Use Commissioner. The Chairperson of the County Board is hereby
designated as the Adult Use Commissioner pursuant to the terms and conditions
of this chapter. The Adult Use Commissioner shall have the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   To administer and rule upon the applications for and the issuance,
renewal, suspension, and revocation of, adult establishment licenses as set
forth in this chapter;
      (2)   To conduct or provide for such inspections of adult entertainment
establishments as shall be necessary to determine and ensure compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and other applicable provisions of law;
      (3)   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter and the
conduct and operation of adult entertainment establishments and adult
establishment licensees, and to make such related reports and recommendations
to the County Board as the Adult Use Commissioner shall deem necessary;
      (4)   To appoint County Board members to serve on the Adult Use
Commission as set forth in division (B) below;
      (5)   To direct the Adult Use Commission to conduct such hearings,
studies, and reports on adult entertainment establishments, and the regulations
relating thereto, as the Adult Use Commissioner shall deem necessary; and
      (6)   To take such further actions as the Adult Use Commissioner shall
deem necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this chapter and to
exercise such additional powers in furtherance thereof as are implied or
incident to those powers and duties expressly set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Adult Use Commission.
      (1)   Creation. A Commission entitled the Adult Use Commission is hereby
created and established for the purposes set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   Composition. The Adult Use Commissioner may appoint one or more
current members of the County Board, with the advice and consent of the Board,
to serve at the will of the Adult Use Commissioner and to advise the Adult Use
Commissioner on matters relating to the implementation and enforcement of the
regulations set forth in this chapter, and to the exercise of the Adult Use
Commissioner’s powers and duties under this chapter. The person or persons
appointed by the Adult Use Commissioner, along with the Adult Use Commissioner,
shall comprise the Adult Use Commission.
      (3)   Duties. The Adult Use Commission shall have the following powers
and duties:
         (a)   At the direction of the Adult Use Commissioner, to recommend to
the Adult Use Commissioner such further regulations regarding adult
entertainment establishments and adult establishment licenses as the members of
the Commission may deem necessary to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare or to otherwise carry out the purposes and objectives of the
regulations established pursuant to this chapter;
         (b)   To conduct and prepare hearings, studies, and reports upon
matters referred to the Commission by the Adult Use Commissioner and to make
such reports and recommendations relating thereto as are requested by the Adult
Use Commissioner; and
         (c)   To conduct such hearings on the revocation or suspension of an
adult establishment license as required pursuant to §
150.26.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-4)
§ 150.04 ADULT ESTABLISHMENT LICENSES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Adult establishment license required. An adult establishment license
shall be required to establish, operate, or maintain an adult entertainment
establishment within the unincorporated area of the county.
   (B)   Operation without license prohibited. Except as provided in division
(F) below, with regard to adult entertainment establishments existing prior to
the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person not
having a current and valid adult establishment license to establish, operate,
or maintain an adult entertainment establishment within the unincorporated area
of the county at any time after the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   Operation in violation of license prohibited. It shall be unlawful for
any licensee to establish, operate, or maintain an adult entertainment
establishment within the unincorporated area of the county except in the manner
authorized by, and in compliance with, the provisions of this chapter and the
licensee’s adult establishment license.
   (D)   Content and display of license. Every adult establishment license
shall be provided by the county and shall, at a minimum, prominently state on
its face the name of the licensee, the expiration date, and the address of the
adult entertainment establishment. Every licensee shall cause the licensee’s
adult establishment license to be framed, covered by glass, and hung at all
times in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises so that it
can be easily seen and read at any time by any person entering the licensed
premises.
   (E)   License term. Except as hereinafter provided, adult establishment
licenses shall be operative and valid, unless first terminated, suspended, or
revoked, for a term of one year commencing on January 1 of the year following
the year of issuance and terminating on December 31 of that same year. Adult
establishment licenses issued after January 1 of any year for operations to
commence in that year shall be operative and valid, unless first terminated,
suspended, or revoked, for a term commencing on the date of issuance and
terminating on December 31 of that same year.
   (F)   Existing establishments. An adult entertainment establishment existing
prior to the effective date of this chapter: shall submit an application for an
adult establishment license no later than October 1, 1999; shall cease
operations on April 1, 2000, unless it has secured, by that date, an adult
establishment license pursuant to this chapter; and shall be subject to all
other provisions of this chapter as of April 1, 2000.
   (G)   Renewal. An adult establishment license may be renewed only by making
application as required for an initial license pursuant to §
150.05. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration of the then-current license term. The expiration of the license
shall not be affected or extended by a renewal application that is made less
than 30 days before expiration.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-5) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 FORM AND SUBMITTAL LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Required form.
      (1)   An application for an adult establishment license or the renewal
thereof shall be made in writing to the Adult Use Commissioner on a form
prescribed by the Adult Use Commissioner and shall be signed:
         (a)   By the applicant, if the applicant is an individual;
         (b)   By at least one of the persons entitled to share in the profits
of the organization and having unlimited personal liability for the obligations
of the organization and the right to bind all other such persons, if the
applicant is a partnership (general or limited), joint venture, or any other
type of organization where two or more persons share in the profits and
liabilities of the organization;
         (c)   By a duly authorized agent, if the applicant is a corporation;
or
         (d)   By the trustee, if the applicant is a land trust.
      (2)   The application shall be verified by oath or affidavit as to all
statements made on or in connection with the application and any attachments
thereto. Each application shall specifically identify the applicant and the
licensed premises for which an adult establishment license is sought. Each
initial or renewal application shall be accompanied by seven identical copies.
   (B)   Administrative processing security.
      (1)   Administrative processing fee. Every applicant for an adult
establishment license or for the renewal of an existing adult establishment
license shall pay an administrative processing fee in the amount of $500 by
certified check to the county at the time of filing such application. The
administrative processing fee shall in all cases be non-refundable and shall be
deposited in the General Corporate Fund of the county.
      (2)   Bond or other security. Each adult establishment licensee and any
renewals thereof, shall be conditioned on the acquisition and maintenance in
good standing by the applicant and licensee of a surety bond or other similar
security in favor of the county in the amount of $5,000 to the county. Before
an adult establishment license may be issued, the applicant shall furnish such
bond or security, and before an adult establishment license is renewed or
reinstated following revocation or suspension, the licensee shall submit
evidence that the bond or other security, in the amount required pursuant
hereto, remains in full force and effect. The bond or other security, or part
thereof, for an adult entertainment establishment shall be forfeited
automatically pursuant to §
150.26 in order to reimburse the county for the county’s costs in association
with the proceedings related to any suspension or revocation of the license.
   (C)   Required information and documents.
      (1)   Each application shall include the following information and
documents:
         (a)   Individuals. The applicant’s legal name, all of the applicant’s
aliases, the applicant’s business address and Social Security number, written
proof of the applicant’s age, the citizenship and place of birth of the
applicant and, if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of the applicant’s
naturalization;
         (b)   Corporations. The applicant corporation’s complete name and
official business address; the legal name, all aliases, and the ages, business
addresses, and Social Security numbers of all of the directors, officers, and
managers of the corporation and of every person owning or controlling more than
50% of the voting shares of the corporation; the corporation’s date and place
of incorporation and the objects for which it was formed; proof that the
corporation is a corporation in good standing and authorized to conduct
business in the state; and the name of the registered corporate agent and the
address of the registered office for service of process;
         (c)   Partnerships (general or limited), joint ventures, or any other
type of organization where two or more persons share in the profits and
liabilities of the organization. The applicant organization’s complete name and
official business address; the legal name, all aliases, and the ages, business
addresses, and Social Security numbers of each partner (other than limited
partners) or any other person entitled to share in the profits of the
organization, whether or not any such person is also obligated to share in the
liabilities of the organization; or
         (d)   Land trusts. The applicant land trust’s complete name; the legal
name, all aliases, and the business address of the trustee of the land trust;
the legal name, all aliases, and the ages, business addresses, and Social
Security numbers of each beneficiary of the land trust and the specific
interest of each such beneficiary in the land trust; and the interest, if any,
that the land trust holds in the licensed premises.
      (2)   If a corporation or partnership is an interest holder that must be
disclosed pursuant to divisions (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) above, then such
interest holders shall disclose the information required in said divisions with
respect to their interest holders:
      (3)   The general character and nature of the business of the applicant;
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been in the business of
the character specified in response to division (C)(3) above;
      (5)   The location, including street address and legal description, and
telephone number of the premises for which the adult establishment license is
sought;
      (6)   The specific name of the business that is to be operated under the
adult establishment license;
      (7)   The identity of each fee simple owner of the licensed premises;
      (8)   A diagram showing the internal and external configuration of the
licensed premises, including all doors, windows, entrances, exits, the fixed
structural internal features of the licensed premises, plus the interior rooms,
walls, partitions, stages, performance areas, and restrooms. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineers or architects blueprint shall
not be required; provided, however, that each diagram shall be oriented to the
north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn to a designated
scale or with marked dimensions to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches and
sufficient to show clearly the various interior dimensions of all areas of the
licensed premises and to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. The requirements of this division (C)(8) shall not apply for renewal
applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted
for the license sought to be renewed and if the licensee certifies that the
licensed premises has not been altered since the immediately preceding issuance
of the license and that the previous diagram continues to accurately depict the
exterior and interior layouts of the licensed premises. The approval or use of
the diagram required pursuant to this division (C)(8) shall not be deemed to
be, and shall not be interpreted or construed to constitute, any other county
approval otherwise required pursuant to applicable county ordinances and
regulations;
      (9)   The names of each governmental body from which, within five years
immediately prior to the date of the present application, the applicant, or any
of the individuals identified in the application pursuant to divisions (C)(1)
and (C)(2) above, has received a license or other authorization to conduct or
operate a business: substantially the same as an adult entertainment
establishment, and the names and addresses of each such business; requiring a
federal, state, or local liquor license; or requiring a federal, state, or
local gaming license;
      (10)   The specific type or types of adult entertainment establishment(s)
that the applicant proposes to operate in the licensed premises;
      (11)   A copy of each adult establishment license, liquor license, and
gaming license currently held by the applicant, or any of the individuals
identified in the application pursuant to divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above;
      (12)   Whether the applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above, has been, within
five years immediately preceding the date of the application, convicted of,
been placed on supervision for, or pleaded nolo contendere to any specified
criminal act. As to each conviction, or supervision disposition, the applicant
or other individual shall provide the date of conviction or the supervision
disposition, the case number, the nature of the misdemeanor or felony violation
(s) or offense(s), and the name and location of the court;
      (13)   Whether the applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above, has had a license or
other authorization to conduct or operate a business substantially the same as
an adult entertainment establishment or any business requiring either a liquor
or gaming license, revoked or suspended, and, if so, the date and grounds for
each such revocation or suspension, and the name and location of the
establishment at issue;
      (14)   The name of the individual or individuals who shall be the day-to-
day, on site managers of the proposed adult entertainment establishment. If the
manager is other than the applicant, the applicant shall provide, for each
manager, all of the information required pursuant to division (C)(1)(a) above
and divisions (C)(9), (C)(11), (C)(12), and (C)(13) above; and
      (15)   For the individual or individuals executing the application
pursuant to division (A) above, and the individual or individuals identified
pursuant to division (C)(14) above, a fully executed waiver on a form
prescribed by the county to obtain criminal conviction information pursuant to
the state’s Uniform Conviction Information Act, being 20 ILCS 2645/1 et seq.
   (D)   Incomplete applications returned. Any application for an adult
establishment license that does not include all of the information and
documents required pursuant to division (C) above as well as the administrative
processing fee and bond or other security required pursuant to division (B)
above, shall be deemed to be incomplete and shall not be acted on or processed
by the county. The Adult Use Commissioner shall, within five days of such
submittal, return the incomplete application to the applicant along with a
written explanation of the reasons why the application is incomplete.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-6)
§ 150.06 PROCESSING OF LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Reviewing departments. Within three days after receipt of a complete
application for an adult establishment license that includes all of the
information and documents required pursuant to §
150.05(C) as well as the administrative processing fee and bond or other
security required pursuant to §
150.05(B), the Adult Use Commissioner shall transmit a copy of the application
to the reviewing departments.
   (B)   Reviewing department reports. Each of the reviewing departments shall,
within 25 days after transmittal of the application thereto: review the
application; conduct such inspections of the proposed licensed premises and
background investigations of the applicant and any of the individuals
identified in the application pursuant to §
150.05(C)(1), (C)(2), or (C)(14), regarding matters within their respective
jurisdictions, as shall be reasonably necessary to verify the information set
forth in the application and to determine whether the proposed adult
entertainment establishment and licensed premises comply with the requirements
of this chapter and other applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules, and
regulations; and prepare and submit to the Adult Use Commissioner a written
report regarding the results and findings of such reviews, inspections, and
investigations.
   (C)   Adult Use Commissioner review. The Adult Use Commissioner shall also
conduct such inspections and investigations as the Adult Use Commissioner shall
deem reasonably necessary to verify the information set forth in the
application and to determine whether the proposed adult entertainment
establishment and licensed premises comply with the requirements of this
chapter and other applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
   (D)   Reliance on diagram. In the event that the licensed premises has not
yet been constructed or reconstructed to accommodate the proposed adult
entertainment establishment, the Adult Use Commissioner and the reviewing
departments shall base their respective written reports, investigations, and
inspections to the extent necessary, on the diagram submitted pursuant to §
150.05(C)(8). Any adult establishment license issued prior to the construction
or reconstruction necessary to accommodate the proposed adult entertainment
establishment shall contain a condition that the adult entertainment
establishment shall not open for business until the licensed premises has been
inspected and determined to be in substantial compliance with the diagram
submitted with the application.
   (E)   Applicant cooperation required. An applicant for an adult
establishment license shall cooperate fully in the inspections and
investigations conducted by the Adult Use Commissioner and the reviewing
departments. The applicant’s failure or refusal: to give any information
reasonably relevant to the investigation of the application; to allow the
licensed premises to be inspected; to appear at any reasonable time and place
for examination under oath regarding the application; or to otherwise cooperate
with the investigation and inspection required by this chapter, shall
constitute an admission by the applicant that the applicant is ineligible for
an adult establishment license and shall be grounds for denial of the license
by the Adult Use Commissioner.
   (F)   Time for issuance or denial. The Adult Use Commissioner shall, within
30 days after submittal of a properly completed application, either issue an
adult establishment license pursuant to the provisions of §
150.07(A) or deny issuance of the adult establishment license pursuant to the
provisions of §
150.07(B). The Adult Use Commissioner shall issue or deny the license within
said 30-day period regardless of whether or not the Adult Use Commissioner has
received all of the reviewing department reports.
   (G)   Decision final. The action taken by the Adult Use Commissioner to
issue an adult establishment license pursuant to §
150.07(A) or to deny issuance of an adult establishment license pursuant to §
150.07(B) shall be final and shall be subject to judicial review.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-7)
§ 150.07 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Issuance. The Adult Use Commissioner shall issue an adult
establishment license to an applicant if, but only if, the Adult Use
Commissioner finds and determines all of the following, based on the reports,
investigations, and inspections conducted by the Adult Use Commissioner and the
reviewing departments and on any other credible information on which it is
reasonable for the Adult Use Commissioner to rely:
      (1)   All information and documents required by §
150.05 for issuance of an adult establishment license have been properly
provided and the material statements made in the application are true and
correct;
      (2)   For adult stores and adult theaters, all persons identified in the
application pursuant to §
150.05(C)(1), (C)(2), or (C)(14) are at least 18 years of age and not under any
legal disability. For adult cabarets, all persons identified in the application
pursuant to §
150.05(C)(1), (C)(2), or (C)(14) are at least 21 years of age and not under any
legal disability;
      (3)   No person identified in the application pursuant to §
150.05(C)(1), (C)(2), or (C)(14) has been convicted of, or pleaded nolo
contendere to, any specified criminal act within five years immediately
preceding the date of the application;
      (4)   No person identified in the application pursuant to §
150.05(C)(1), (C)(2), or (C)(14) has been convicted of, or pleaded nolo
contendere to, any violation of a provision of this chapter within five years
immediately preceding the date of the association;
      (5)   No person identified in the application pursuant to §
150.05(C)(1), (C)(2), or (C)(14) is overdue on payment to the county of taxes,
fees, fines, or penalties assessed against, or imposed on, any such individual
in connection to any adult entertainment establishment;
      (6)   No person identified in the application pursuant to §
150.05(C)(1), (C)(2), or (C)(14) is residing with, or married to, a person: who
has been denied an adult establishment license within 12 months immediately
preceding the date of the application; whose adult establishment license has
been revoked within 12 months immediately preceding the date of the
application; or whose adult establishment license is under suspension at the
time of application;
      (7)   The adult entertainment establishment and the licensed premises,
and the proposed operation of the adult entertainment establishment, comply
with all then-applicable building, health, and life safety codes and
regulations and have received all necessary zoning approvals required pursuant
to the then-applicable provisions of the County Zoning Ordinance, including
specifically, but without limitation, the zoning certificate required for the
adult entertainment establishment;
      (8)   The applicant has confirmed in writing and under oath as part of
the application that the applicant has read this chapter and all provisions of
the County Zoning Ordinance applicable to adult entertainment establishments,
that the applicant is familiar with their terms and conditions, and that the
licensed premises and the proposed adult entertainment establishment and its
proposed operation are and shall be in compliance therewith; and/or
      (9)   The property upon which the adult entertainment establishment is to
be operated shall conform to all applicable sections of the County Zoning
Ordinance.
   (B)   Denial. If the Adult Use Commissioner determines that the applicant
has not met any one or more of the conditions set forth in division (A) above,
then the Adult Use Commissioner shall deny issuance of the adult establishment
license and shall give the applicant a written notification and explanation of
such denial. The Adult Use Commissioner’s notice of denial shall be delivered
in person or by certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested,
addressed to the applicant’s address as set forth in the application. The adult
establishment license shall be deemed denied on the day that the notice of
denial is delivered in person or three days after it is placed in the U.S. mail
as provided in this division (B).
   (C)   License deemed to be issued. If the Adult Use Commissioner does not
issue or deny the adult establishment license within 30 days after the properly
completed application is submitted, then the adult establishment license
applied for shall be deemed to have been issued.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-8)
§ 150.08 INSPECTIONS BY COUNTY.
   (A)   Authority. The Adult Use Commissioner and other county representatives
and departments with jurisdiction shall periodically inspect all adult
entertainment establishments as shall be necessary to determine compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable law.
   (B)   Licensee cooperation. A licensee shall permit representatives of the
county to inspect the licensed premises and the adult entertainment
establishment for the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of
this chapter and all other applicable law at any time during which the licensed
premises is occupied or the adult entertainment establishment is open for
business.
   (C)   Interference or refusal illegal. It shall be unlawful for the
licensee, any adult establishment employee, or any other person to prohibit,
interfere with, or refuse to allow, any lawful inspection conducted by the
county pursuant to this chapter or any other authority.
   (D)   Suspension or revocation. Any such prohibition, interference, or
refusal shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of the adult
establishment license pursuant to §
150.26.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-9) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09 CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   During the pendency of any application for, or during the term of, any adult
establishment license, the applicant or licensee shall promptly notify the
Adult Use Commissioner in writing of any change in any material information
given by the applicant or licensee in the application for such license,
including specifically, but without limitation, any change in managers of the
adult entertainment establishment or in the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to §
150.05(C)(1) or (C)(2), or if any of the events specified in §
150.26(A) occur.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-10)
REGULATIONS
§ 150.20 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   General compliance. All licensed premises and adult entertainment
establishments shall comply with the provisions of this chapter; all other
applicable county ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations; and all
other applicable federal, state, and local laws.
   (B)   Hours of operation. No adult entertainment establishment shall be open
for business at any time between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on any
weekday or Saturday. No adult entertainment establishment shall be open for
business at any time on any Sunday or on any legal state or federal holiday.
   (C)   Animals. No animals, except only for seeing-eye and hearing-ear dogs
required to assist the blind and hearing impaired, shall be permitted at any
time at or in any adult entertainment establishment or licensed premises.
   (D)   Restrooms. All restrooms in adult entertainment establishments shall
be equipped with standard toilets, sinks, and other traditional lavatory
facilities. No adult materials or live performances shall be provided or
allowed at any time in the restrooms of an adult entertainment establishment.
Separate male and female restrooms shall be provided for and used by adult
establishment employees and adult establishment patrons.
   (E)   Restricted access. No adult establishment patron shall be permitted at
any time to enter into any of the non-public portions of any adult
entertainment establishment, including specifically, but without limitation,
any storage areas or dressing or other rooms provided for the benefit of adult
establishment employees. This division (E) shall not apply to persons
delivering goods and materials, food and beverages, or performing maintenance
or repairs to the licensed premises; provided, however, that any such persons
shall remain in such non-public areas only for the purposes and to the extent
and time necessary to perform their job duties.
   (F)   Specific prohibited acts.
      (1)   No adult establishment employee or any other person at any adult
entertainment establishment shall appear, be present, or perform while nude.
      (2)   No adult establishment employee or any other person at any adult
entertainment establishment shall perform or conduct any specified sexual
activity with or for any adult establishment patron or any other adult
establishment employee or any other person. No adult establishment patron or
any other person at any adult entertainment establishment shall perform or
conduct any specified sexual activity with or for any adult establishment
employee or any other adult establishment patron or any other person.
      (3)   Straddle dances shall be prohibited at all adult entertainment
establishments.
   (G)   Exterior display. No adult entertainment establishment shall be
maintained or operated in any manner that causes, creates, or allows public
viewing of any adult material, or any entertainment depicting, describing, or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, from any
sidewalk, public or private right-of-way, or any property other than the lot on
which the licensed premises is located. No portion of the exterior of an adult
entertainment establishment shall utilize or contain any flashing lights,
search lights, or spotlights, or any other similar lighting systems, or any
words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial
representations of any manner except to the extent specifically allowed
pursuant to division (H) below with regard to signs. This division (G) shall
apply to: any advertisement, display, promotional material, decoration, or
sign; to any performance or show; and to any window, door, or other opening.
   (H)   Signage limitations. All signs for adult entertainment establishments
shall be flat wall signs. The maximum allowable sign area shall be one square
foot of sign area per foot of lot frontage on a street, but in no event
exceeding 32 square feet. The maximum number of signs shall be one per lot
frontage. Signs otherwise permitted pursuant to this chapter shall contain only
the name of the adult entertainment establishment and/or the specific type of
adult entertainment establishment conducted on the licensed premises. Temporary
signage shall not be permitted in connection with any adult entertainment
establishment.
   (I)   Noise. No loudspeakers or sound equipment audible beyond the licensed
premises shall be used at any time.
   (J)   Gambling and related devices prohibited. No adult entertainment
establishment shall contain any video, pinball slot, bagatelle, pigeon-hole,
pool, or any other games, machines, tables, or implements.
   (K)   Manager’s station. Each adult entertainment establishment shall have
one or more manager’s stations. The interior of each adult entertainment
establishment shall be configured in such a manner that there is a direct and
substantially unobstructed view from at least one manager’s station to every
part of each area, except restrooms, of the establishment to which any adult
establishment patron is permitted access for any purpose.
   (L)   Alcohol prohibition. No alcoholic liquor of any kind shall be sold,
used, consumed, or possessed at any time on any licensed premises or at any
adult entertainment establishment.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-11) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT BOOTHS.
   (A)   Prohibited except in adult stores. Adult booths shall be prohibited in
all adult entertainment establishments except adult stores.
   (B)   Occupancy and prohibited acts. Only one individual shall occupy an
adult booth at any one time. No individual occupying an adult booth shall
engage in any specified sexual activities. No individual shall damage or deface
any portion of an adult booth.
   (C)   Open booth requirement. In addition to satisfying the requirement of §
150.20(K), all adult stores containing adult booths shall be physically
arranged in such a manner that the entire interior portion of each adult booth
shall be visible from the common area of the adult store. To satisfy this
requirement, there shall be a permanently open and unobstructed entranceway for
each adult booth and for the entranceway from the area of the adult store that
provides other adult materials to the area of the adult store containing the
adult booths. Each of these entrance ways shall not be capable of being closed
or obstructed, entirely or partially, by any door, curtain, partition, drapes,
or any other obstruction whatsoever that would be capable of wholly or
partially obscuring the area of the adult store containing the adult booths or
any person situated in an adult booth. It shall be unlawful to install adult
booths within an adult entertainment establishment for the purpose of providing
secluded viewing of adult material or live performances.
   (D)   Aisle required. There shall be one continuous lighted main aisle along
side the adult booths provided in any adult store. Each person situated in a
booth shall be visible at all times from the aisle.
   (E)   Holes prohibited. Except for the open booth entranceway, the walls and
partitions of each adult booth shall be constructed and maintained of solid
walls or partitions without any holes or openings whatsoever.
   (F)   Signage. A sign shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entranceway to each adult booth that states: that only one person is allowed in
an adult booth at any one time; that it is unlawful to engage in any specified
sexual activities while in an adult booth; and that it is unlawful to damage or
deface any portion of an adult booth.
   (G)   Age limitations.
      (1)   No adult establishment employee or adult establishment patron at an
adult booth or a licensed premises that includes an adult booth shall be under
the age of 18.
      (2)   No person under the age of 18 shall be admitted to any adult booth
or any licensed premises that includes an adult booth.
      (3)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed or permitted to
remain at any adult booth or at any licensed premises that includes an adult
booth.
      (4)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed or permitted to
purchase or receive, whether for consideration or not, any adult material or
other goods or services at or from any adult booth or any licensed premises
that includes an adult booth.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-12) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT CABARETS.
   (A)   Performance area. The performance area of an adult cabaret shall be
limited to one or more stages or platforms permanently anchored to the floor (a
“cabaret stage”). Each cabaret stage shall be at least 18 inches in elevation
above the level of the patron seating areas. Each cabaret stage shall be
separated by a distance of at least eight feet from all areas of the premises
to which adult entertainment patrons have access. A continuous barrier at least
three feet in height and located at least eight feet from all points of each
cabaret stage shall separate each cabaret stage from all patron seating areas.
The barrier shall consist of horizontal or vertical members spaced no more than
nine inches apart and nine inches from the floor or the walls to which it is
attached.
   (B)   Lighting. Sufficient lighting shall be provided and equally
distributed throughout the public areas of the adult cabaret so that all
objects are plainly visible at all times. A minimum lighting level of not less
than 30 lux horizontal, measured at 30 inches from the floor and on ten-foot
centers shall be maintained at all times for all areas of the adult cabaret
where adult establishment patrons are admitted.
   (C)   Tipping. No tip or gratuity from any adult establishment patron may be
offered or accepted for any performance by an adult establishment employee on
any adult cabaret stage at any time prior to the completion of any such
performance. No adult establishment patron shall offer, and no adult
establishment employee having performed on any cabaret stage shall accept, any
form of tip or gratuity offered directly to the employee by the adult
establishment patron. Rather, following completion of a performance, all tips
and gratuities to adult establishment employees performing on any cabaret stage
shall be placed into a receptacle provided for receipt of such tips and
gratuities by the adult entertainment establishment.
   (D)   Notice of select rules. A sign at least two feet by two feet, with
letters at least one inch high shall be conspicuously displayed on or adjacent
to every cabaret stage stating the following:
   THIS ADULT CABARET IS REGULATED BY THE COUNTY OF TAZEWELL.
   ENTERTAINERS ARE:
      1.   NOT PERMITTED TO ENGAGE IN ANY TYPE OF SEXUAL CONDUCT;
      2.   NOT PERMITTED TO APPEAR IN A STATE OF NUDITY;
      3.   NOT PERMITTED TO ACCEPT TIPS OR GRATUITIES FOR ANY PERFORMANCE UNTIL
AFTER COMPLETION OF THE PERFORMANCE; AND
      4.   NOT PERMITTED TO ACCEPT ANY TIPS DIRECTLY FROM PATRONS EVEN AFTER
COMPLETION OF THE PERFORMANCE. ANY SUCH TIPS MUST BE PLACED INTO THE RECEPTACLE
PROVIDED BY MANAGEMENT
   (E)   Age limitations.
      (1)   No adult establishment employee or adult establishment patron at an
adult cabaret or a licensed premises used for an adult cabaret shall be under
the age of 21.
      (2)   No person under the age of 21 shall be admitted to any adult
cabaret or to any licensed premises used for an adult cabaret.
      (3)   No person under the age of 21 shall be allowed or permitted to
remain at any adult cabaret or any licensed premises used for an adult cabaret.
      (4)   No person under the age of 21 shall be allowed or permitted to
purchase or receive, whether for consideration or not, any adult material or
other goods or services at or from any adult cabaret or any licensed premises
used for an adult cabaret.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-13) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT STORES.
   (A)   Windows and signs. Window areas for adult stores shall not be covered
or obstructed in any way. No signs or other obstructions shall be placed in the
windows.
   (B)   Age limitations.
      (1)   No adult establishment employee or adult establishment patron at an
adult store or a licensed premises used for an adult store shall be under the
age of 18.
      (2)   No person under the age of 18 shall be admitted to any adult store
or to any licensed premises used for an adult store.
      (3)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed or permitted to
remain at any adult store or any licensed premises used for an adult store.
      (4)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed or permitted to
purchase or receive, whether for consideration or not, any adult material or
other goods or services at or from any adult store or any licensed premises
used for an adult store.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-14) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT THEATERS.
   (A)   Seating. Each adult theater shall provide seating only in individual
chairs with arms or in seats separated from each other by immovable arms and
not on couches, benches, or any other multiple person seating structures. The
number of seats shall equal the maximum number of persons who may occupy the
adult theater.
   (B)   Aisle. Each adult theater shall have a continuous main aisle alongside
the seating area in order that each person seated in the adult theater shall be
visible from the aisle at all times.
   (C)   Sign. Each adult theater shall have a sign posted in a conspicuous
place at or near each entranceway to the auditorium or similar area that lists
the maximum number of persons who may occupy the auditorium area, which number
shall not exceed the number of seats in the auditorium area.
   (D)   Age limitations.
      (1)   No adult establishment employee or adult establishment patron at an
adult theater or a licensed premises used for an adult theater shall be under
the age of 18.
      (2)   No person under the age of 18 shall be admitted to any adult
theater or to any licensed premises used for an adult theater.
      (3)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed or permitted to
remain at any adult theater or any licensed premises used for an adult theater.
      (4)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed or permitted to
purchase or receive, whether for consideration or not, any adult material or
other goods or services at or from any adult theater or any licensed premises
used for an adult theater.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-15) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.25 LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITY FOR EMPLOYEES.
   Every act or omission by an adult establishment employee constituting a
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be the act or
omission of the licensee if such act or omission occurs either with the
authorization, knowledge, or approval of the licensee, or as a result of the
licensee’s negligent failure to supervise the adult establishment employee. The
licensee shall be punishable for any such act or omission in the same manner as
if the licensee committed the act or caused the omission. Accordingly, any such
act or omission of any such employee constituting a violation of the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed, for purposes of determining whether the
licensee’s adult establishment license shall be revoked, suspended, or renewed,
to be the act or omission of the licensee.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-16)
§ 150.26 LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Grounds. Pursuant to the procedures set forth in division (B) below,
the Adult Use Commissioner may suspend for not more than 30 days, or revoke,
any adult establishment license if the Adult Use Commissioner, based on
credible and reasonably reliable information and evidence, determines that any
one or more of the following has occurred.
      (1)   The licensee has violated any of the provisions or requirements of
this chapter or the adult establishment license issued pursuant hereto, or the
provisions of the County Zoning Ordinance applicable to the licensed premises
or the adult entertainment establishment.
      (2)   The licensee knowingly or negligently furnished false or misleading
information or withheld information on any application or other document
submitted to the county for the issuance or renewal of any adult establishment
license, or knowingly or negligently caused or suffered any other person to
furnish or withhold any such information on the licensee’s behalf.
      (3)   The licensee has committed a felony or specified criminal act on
the licensed premises.
      (4)   The licensee authorizes, approves, or, as a result of the
licensee’s negligent failure to supervise the licensed premises or the adult
entertainment establishment, allows an adult establishment employee, an adult
establishment patron, or any other person to violate any of the provisions or
requirements of this chapter or of the provisions or requirements of the adult
establishment license issued pursuant hereto, or commit any felony or specified
criminal act on the licensed premises.
      (5)   The licensee, or any person identified pursuant to §§
150.05(C)(1), (C)(2), or (C)(14) becomes disqualified for the issuance of an
adult establishment license at any time during the term of the license at
issue.
   (B)   Procedure. An adult entertainment establishment license may be
suspended for not more than 30 days or revoked pursuant to the terms and
conditions set forth in this division (B).
      (1)   Notice. Upon determining that one or more of the grounds for
suspension or revocation under division (A) above may exist, the Adult Use
Commissioner shall serve a written notice on the licensee in person or by
certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to
the licensee’s address as set forth in the licensee’s application. The written
notice shall, at a minimum: state that Adult Use Commissioner has determined
that the adult establishment license may be subject to suspension or revocation
pursuant to division (A) above; identify the specific grounds for the Adult Use
Commissioner’s determination; and set a date for a hearing regarding the Adult
Use Commissioner’s determination as to the possibility of suspension or
revocation of the adult establishment license. The date of the hearing shall be
no less than five days after service of the Adult Use Commissioner’s notice,
unless an earlier or later date is agreed to by the licensee and the Adult Use
Commissioner.
      (2)   Hearing. The hearing shall be conducted by the Adult Use
Commissioner or, at the Adult Use Commissioner’s direction, by the Adult Use
Commission. At the hearing, the licensee may present and submit evidence and
witnesses to refute the grounds cited by the Adult Use Commissioner for
suspending or revoking the license and the county and any other persons may
submit evidence to sustain such grounds. The administrative record compiled on
the adult entertainment establishment pursuant to §
150.27 shall be made part of the hearing record. Within three days after the
close of the hearing, the Adult Use Commissioner shall, having considered the
record made at the hearing, render a decision in writing, setting forth the
reasons for the decision. The action taken by the Adult Use Commissioner shall
be final and shall be subject to judicial review.
      (3)   Notice and effective date of suspension or revocation. The Adult
Use Commissioner’s written decision shall be posted at the office of the Adult
Use Commissioner and shall be served on the licensee in person or by certified
U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the
licensee’s address as set forth in the licensee’s application. Any suspension
or revocation, as the case may be, shall take effect on the day that the Adult
Use Commissioner’s written decision is delivered in person or three days after
it is placed in the U.S. mail as provided in this paragraph.
      (4)   Surrender of license and security. Upon the suspension or
revocation of an adult establishment license pursuant to this chapter, the
Adult Use Commissioner shall take custody of the suspended or revoked license,
and such part or all of the bond or other security submitted for the adult
entertainment establishment pursuant to §
150.05(B)(2) shall be forfeited as the Adult Use Commissioner shall deem
necessary to reimburse the county for the costs associated with the proceedings
related to the suspension or revocation at issue. Such bond or other security
shall be replenished to equal the amount required pursuant to §
150.05(B)(2) prior to the issuance of any new adult establishment license for
the licensed premises or for the reinstatement of any suspended license.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-17)
§ 150.27 ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD.
   The Adult Use Commissioner shall cause to be kept in the Adult Use
Commissioner’s office an accurate record of every adult establishment license
application received and acted on, together with all relevant information and
material pertaining to such application, any adult establishment license issued
pursuant thereto, and any adult entertainment establishment operated pursuant
to such adult establishment license.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-18)
§ 150.28 EMPLOYEE REGISTRATION AND RECORD KEEPING BY LICENSEE.
   (A)   Registration. The licensee of every adult entertainment establishment
shall register each of the licensee’s adult establishment employees with the
Adult Use Commissioner by providing the following information to the Adult Use
Commissioner no later than the business day immediately preceding the day of
commencement of the employee’s employment at the adult entertainment
establishment: legal name; any and all aliases; current residential address and
telephone number, and all residential addresses for the previous three years;
date of birth; gender; height; weight; hair and eye color; Social Security
number; date of commencement of employment; specific job or employment duties;
whether the employee, within three years immediately preceding the date of
registration, has been convicted of any specified criminal act. As to each such
conviction, the licensee shall provide the conviction date, the nature of the
conviction, the case number, and the name and location of the court.
      (1)   The names of each governmental body, including the county, from
which, within three years immediately preceding the date of registration, the
employee has received an adult establishment license, or any other official
authorization to operate or to be employed at, an adult entertainment
establishment or a business substantially the same as an adult entertainment
establishment. For each such license or authorization, the licensee shall
provide the name and address of the business.
      (2)   Whether the employee has had any such license or authorization
revoked or suspended, and if so, the date and grounds for each such revocation
or suspension, and the name and location of the establishment at issue.
   (B)   Employee register.
      (1)   The licensee of every adult entertainment establishment shall
maintain a register of all of its adult establishment employees. For each such
employee, the register shall include the following information:
         (a)   Legal name;
         (b)   Any and all aliases;
         (c)   Current residential address and telephone number;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Gender;
         (f)   Social Security number;
         (g)   Date of commencement of employment;
         (h)   Date of employment termination, if applicable; and
         (i)   Specific job or employment duties.
      (2)   The register shall be maintained for all current employees and all
employees employed at any time during the preceding 36 months. The licensee
shall make the register of its adult establishment employees available for
inspection by the county immediately upon demand at all reasonable times.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-19)
§ 150.29 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any adult entertainment establishment established, operated, or maintained
in violation of any of the provisions or requirements of this chapter or of any
adult establishment license shall be, and the same is, declared to be unlawful
and a public nuisance. The county, in addition to or in lieu of any other
remedies set forth in this chapter, or any resident of the county, may commence
an action to enjoin, remove, or abate such nuisance in the manner provided by
law and shall take such other steps and apply to such court or courts as may
have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such public
nuisance, and restrain and enjoin any person from establishing, operating, or
maintaining an adult entertainment establishment contrary to the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-21) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.30 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   Unless otherwise specifically set forth in this chapter, the time within
which any act required by this chapter is to be done shall be computed by
excluding the first day and including the last day, unless the last day is
Saturday, Sunday, or a federal or state holiday, in which case it shall also be
excluded. If the day immediately following such Saturday, Sunday, or holiday is
also a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, then such succeeding day shall also be
excluded.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-22)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, neglects, refuses to comply with, or assists or
participates in any way in the violation of any of the provisions or
requirements of this chapter or of any of the provisions or requirements of any
adult establishment license, shall be fined not more than $500 for each such
violation. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense. The Adult Use Commissioner shall give written notice to any such
person of any such violation and the fine imposed by service of a citation in
person or by certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested,
addressed to the licensee’s address as set forth in the licensee’s application.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 2-20)
CHAPTER 151: EROSION CONTROL
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Applicability
   
151.03   Standards for design
   
151.04   Maintenance of control measures
   
151.05   General erosion and sediment control permits
   
151.06   Erosion, sediment, and stormwater control measures
   
151.07   Maintenance of permanent stormwater control measures
   
151.08   Enforcement and stop work order fee
   
151.09   Appeals Board
   
151.10   Appeals to Appeals Board
   
151.11   Appeals to Court
   
151.12   Standard for stormwater design analysis
   
151.13   Sediment control
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADJACENT LANDS. Surrounding land that may either impact a site or be
impacted by potential soil erosion, sediment, and/or stormwater runoff as a
result of land disturbing activities conducted on a site, and at a minimum is
an area within 50 feet of the site.
   APPEALS BOARD. The Erosion, Sediment, and Stormwater Control Appeals Board.
   AREAS OF CONCENTRATED FLOW OR BODIES OF WATER. Any area where water may
accumulate or flow, whether continual or as the result of a storm event
including, but not limited to, lakes, rivers, streams, creeks, ponds, ditches,
swales, gullies, ravines, street gutters, and other similar features.
   COMMISSION. The Tri-County Regional Planning Commission.
   CONTROL MEASURE. Any proposed temporary or permanent measures to be
installed to control erosion, sediment, and stormwater runoff from a project
area.
   COUNTY. The County of Tazewell, Illinois.
   DEPARTMENT. The Tazewell County Community Development Department.
   DEVELOPMENT. The division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels; the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or
enlargement of any structure; any mining, excavation, landfill, or land
disturbance; and any use or extension of the use of land.
   DISTURBED AREA. Any area of land on which the pre-development ground surface
will be affected or altered by the development activities. This includes, but
is not limited to, grading, clearing, stockpiling, tracking, and other similar
activities.
   EROSION CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the Tazewell County
Board to administer this chapter.
   FIVE-YEAR FREQUENCY STORM EVENT. The storm event rainfall depth during a 24-
hour period which is exceeded, on the average, once every five years.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS (FIRM). Maps prepared by the federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) that depict the special flood hazard areas (SFHA)
within a community. These maps include insurance rate zones and floodplains any
may or may not depict floodways.
   INSTITUTIONAL USE.  A religious or public use such as a church, library,
public or private school, hospital, or government owner or operated building,
structure, or land use for public purpose.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any change in land which may result in soil
erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state or county
waters or onto lands in the county, or a change in the amount and/or intensity
of stormwater runoff including, but not limited to, the covering with an
impervious surface, stockpiling, clearing, grading, excavating, rehabilitating,
transporting, depositing, or filling of land.
   NORMAL AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES. Activities associated with the preparation
and tilling of land for the purposes of growing crops or raising livestock
which may include, but are not limited to, the construction of conservation
measures, plowing, disking, and cultivating.
   PERIMETER CONTROL. Any control measure installed between the down slope side
of the disturbed area and the property line and/or between the down slope side
of the disturbed area and any area of concentrated flow.
   PRE-PROJECT CONDITION. A condition that may impact erosion, sediment, or
stormwater runoff characteristics of a site prior to start of construction
activity. The PRE-PROJECT CONDITION shall be based on the predominant land use
for the past five years. For example, if a site has been cropland for four of
the past five years, and in grass just prior to development, the land use would
be cropland for the pre-project condition.
   PROJECT. Any development involving modification to land which involves a
land disturbing activity.
   REGIONAL STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. A system which is designed,
constructed, and maintained to provide stormwater control for multiple land
owners.
   ROAD. Any right-of-way that has been improved for the purposes of providing
a surface for vehicular traffic, including any federal, state, county,
township, and municipal controlled facilities.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building designed for or occupied by one family.
   SITE. The lot or parcel on which the project is to be developed.
   SITE SPECIFIC PLAN. A general erosion and sediment control permit required
for projects where slope is greater than 10% and/or the site contains areas of
concentrated flow or bodies of water. Slope shall be determined by the maximum
slope indicated on the site according to the USDA Soil Survey or topographic
survey as prepared by a state registered surveyor.
   STANDARD PLAN. A general erosion and sediment control permit for projects
where slope is less than 10%, and there are no areas of concentrated flows or
bodies of water on or water on or immediately adjacent to the site. Slope shall
be determined by the maximum slope indicated on the site according to the USDA
Soil Survey or topographic survey as prepared by a state registered surveyor.
   STANDARDS. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency’s Illinois Urban
Manual, A Technical Manual designed for Urban Ecosystem Protection and
Enhancement published in 1995 and Illinois Procedures and Standards for Urban
Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control published in 1988 by the Urban Committee
of the Association of Illinois Soil and Water Conservation District now in
effect or as hereafter amended, which is incorporated by reference herein, and
the county standards for stormwater design analysis, found at §
151.12, and the erosion and sediment control criteria and specifications found
in §
151.13.
   SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION. The point at which all exterior work is completed
and the site can be used for the use intended.
   TWENTY-FIVE-YEAR FREQUENCY STORM EVENT. The storm event rainfall depth
during a 24-hour period which is exceeded, on the average, once every 25 years.
   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A building designed for or occupied by two families.
   TWO-YEAR FREQUENCY STORM EVENT. The storm event rainfall depth during a 24-
hour period which is exceeded, on the average, once every two years.
   UTILITY SERVICE LINE. Means by which utility service is provided to service
users, such as electric, telephone, and television cable, or gas, water, and
sewer pipes.
   WORKING DAY. Shall not include Saturday, Sunday, or any holiday when the
county offices are closed.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 3-1)
§ 151.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All projects within the boundaries and jurisdiction of the county. No
land surface shall be disturbed unless an erosion and sediment control permit
or an erosion sediment and stormwater control permit has first been issued for
that project, except as follows:
      (1)   Land disturbing activities which do not involve the construction of
any new single- or two- family dwellings, and for which the disturbed area is
less than 5,000 square feet;
      (2)   Normal agricultural practices; or
      (3)   Routine maintenance of roads and utility service lines.
   (B)   County road departments. The Erosion Control Administrator reserves
the right to require any non-agricultural, construction development activity,
regardless of disturbed area or type of activity, to comply with this chapter
if it is determined to be the cause of, or a contributor to, an existing or
potential erosion, sediment, or stormwater impact; and
   (C)   Any land within the boundaries and jurisdiction of the county on which
there is located a permanent stormwater control measure which was installed
pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 3-2)
§ 151.03 STANDARDS FOR DESIGN.
   (A)   Erosion and sediment control measures. All control measures required
under this chapter shall conform to the design criteria, standards, and
specifications provided in the applicable standards referenced in §
151.13 now in effect or as hereafter amended. All control measures installed
shall be sufficient to prevent sediment from leaving the permit site during a
five-year frequency storm event. Measures shall be taken to prevent sediment
from leaving the site. When sediment does leave the site, the owner, developer,
or contractor shall remove the sediment within four hours, or by no later than
the end of the work day. For example, installing a rock construction drive or
cleaning tires could be used to minimize tracking of sediment onto public
roads.
   (B)   Permanent stormwater control measures. All stormwater controls shall
be designed so that the peak discharge rate from the permitted area resulting
from the two-year and 25-year frequency storm events for the post-project
condition do not exceed the corresponding storm event peak discharges for the
pre-project condition. Evaluation of submitted plans shall be based on the
Stormwater Design Analyses Standards in §
151.12.
   (C)   Regional stormwater control systems. To allow for the beneficial
development and maintenance of regional stormwater management systems, where
they are available and they are appropriate, an applicant may submit a design
dependent on such a system. The applicant may submit documentation of the
approval for the use of the regional stormwater management facility from the
governmental agency having jurisdiction over it. The applicant shall submit
evidence showing that there will be no adverse flooding impact to any receiving
stream between the point of discharge and the regional stormwater facility. If
the applicant is approved to use the regional stormwater management system, the
applicant may request exemption from the requirements in this section for
permanent on-site stormwater controls from the Erosion Control Administrator.
Such exemption shall not apply to any temporary stormwater control measures
required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 3-3)
§ 151.04 MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL MEASURES.
   (A)   Erosion, sediment, and temporary stormwater control measures.
      (1)   On-site sediment control measures shall be constructed and
functional prior to initiating clearing, grading, stripping, excavating, or
fill activities on the site.
      (2)   Sediment control measures and temporary stormwater control measures
are to be maintained so they are operating effectively until permanent ground
surface protection and permanent stormwater control measures are established in
a manner specified in the applicable permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   Fully functioning temporary sediment control measures (including,
but not limited to, perimeter sediment controls) shall remain in place until
the ground is stabilized with permanent ground cover. The intent of the chapter
is to keep the sites protected at all times until the ground is permanently
stabilized. In cases where it is not practical to leave the temporary sediment
control measures in place prior to establishing permanent ground cover (for
example when control measures need to be removed in order to grade the area or
install pavement or sod) an exception will be made only if one of the
conditions listed below will be met. In no way does adhering to one of the
conditions below relieve the owner of responsibility to clean-up or repair any
damages caused from sediment or stormwater runoff leaving the site.
         (a)   Permanent ground cover shall be established with pavement,
aggregate, or sod within three days of the removal of sediment barriers.
         (b)   Permanent vegetation shall be established by seeding with
anchored mulch within three days of removal of sediment barriers during the
spring or fall seeding periods. However, on project areas with slopes not
exceeding 5%, permanent vegetation shall be established by seeding within three
days of the removal of sediment barriers during the spring of fall seeding
periods. Summer seeding is acceptable on project areas which shall be watered.
This does not apply to concentrated flow areas.
   (B)   Additional control measures. The Erosion Control Administrator may
require additional control measures pursuant to the standards if determined as
necessary after site inspection, and prior to issuing the permit.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 3-4)
§ 151.05 GENERAL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PERMITS.
   Before commencing any project involving construction of any new single- or
two-family dwelling or commencing any project with an area of 5,000 square feet
or greater, the owner of the land or his or her representative shall be
required to file an application for a general erosion and sediment control
permit, as either a standard or site specific plan, except as otherwise
provided in §§
151.02 and
151.06.
   (A)   Application. The applicant shall file the application with the
Department on forms provided by the Department. The fee for a standard plan
application shall be in the amount of $175 for each permit, and the fee for a
site specific plan application shall be $250 for each permit. However, no fee
shall be required for any project, the purpose of which is agricultural or
initiated by a local unit of government. There shall be no refund of any fees
paid and no application shall be accepted for filing unless the fee has been
paid in full.
   (B)   Application review. Review of a general erosion and sediment control
permit application shall be limited to verifying that the required information
and permit fee have been provided and that it meets the standards. The Erosion
Control Administrator shall issue or deny an application by approving the
permit for a standard plan within two working days of the filing of a complete
application, or initiate the review process for a site specific plan and
approve the same within five working days of the filing of a complete
application. If the permit is denied, it shall be returned to the applicant
with a written explanation of its denial. The application shall be deemed
approved if no response is made within the time frames provided above.
   (C)   Duration. The general erosion and sediment control permit shall be
issued for a period not exceeding two years.
   (D)   Content of general erosion and sediment control permit. The general
erosion control permit shall contain at a minimum the following general
conditions:
      (1)   Written approval be obtained from the Erosion Control Administrator
prior to making any modification to the erosion and sediment control plan as
set forth in the application;
      (2)   All control measures identified in the application shall be
installed;
      (3)   All control measures shall be maintained during construction; and
      (4)   Such other conditions as the Erosion Control Administrator deems
appropriate to ensure compliance with the specific requirements and the intent
of this chapter.
   (E)   Permanent ground surface cover. Under all circumstances, temporary
control measures shall be maintained in accordance with §
151.04. Without exception, all disturbed areas must have permanent ground cover
within six months of project completion or within six months of occupancy,
whichever comes first.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 3-5) (Amended 3-26-2008; Res. LU-18-13, passed 8-29-2018)
§ 151.06 EROSION, SEDIMENT, AND STORMWATER CONTROL MEASURES.
   Before commencing any commercial, institutional, multi-family, or industrial
or industrial project with an area of more than one-half acre, or a project
requiring subdivision approval by a unit of local government with an area of
more than one-half acre, the owner of the land or his or her representative
shall be required to file an application for an erosion, sediment, and
stormwater control permit.
   (A)   Application. The applicant shall file the application with the
Department on forms provided by the Department. The applicant shall supply the
number of copies of application documents as provided in the application. Each
application shall be accompanied by the following information:
      (1)   A map of existing site conditions on a scale of at least one inch
equals 100 feet, showing the site and immediately adjacent areas and the
locations of the following site information:
         (a)   Site boundaries and adjacent lands which accurately identify
site location;
         (b)   Lakes, streams, wetlands, channels, ditches, and other
watercourses on and immediately adjacent to the site;
         (c)   Floodways and/or Zone A of the floodplain as determined on the
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) and indicating the map panel number;
         (d)   All off-site drainage onto or through the project site;
         (e)   Location and dimensions of stormwater management systems on or
adjacent to site;
         (f)   Locations and dimensions of structures, roads, highways,
easements, and paved areas; and
         (g)   Site topography: show contours at vertical intervals as follows:
            1.   Slope of 6% or less: two-foot intervals;
            2.   Slope of over 6% but less than 15%: five-foot intervals; and
            3.   Slope of over 15%: ten- or 20-foot intervals.
      (2)   A plan of final site conditions drawn to the same scale as the
existing site map submitted pursuant to division (A)(1) above, and which
includes information to accurately depict post-construction appearance of site
(e.g., paved areas, buildings, landscaping, and other changes to the site),
along with other predominant site features (e.g., open areas, bodies of water);
      (3)   Sediment and erosion control practices. A site construction plan
including:
         (a)   Locations and dimensions of all proposed land disturbing
activities;
         (b)   Locations and dimensions of all temporary soil and aggregate
stockpiles;
         (c)   Location, dimensions, and construction details of all
construction site management control measures necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter, and including proposed re- vegetation of
disturbed areas; and
         (d)   Statement regarding provisions for maintenance and maintenance
requirements of the construction site management control measures during
construction;
      (4)   Stormwater management plans and controls. Design calculations and
information related to the permanent stormwater management system for any
project with a net increase of impervious area greater than one-half of an
acre. For the purposes of this section, the net increase is the cumulative
change since the implementation of this chapter, April 15, 1996. For example,
in year one, a commercial site increases the parking lot by 20,000 square feet.
In year two, the same commercial site adds a building with an area of 20,000
square feet. In year one, no permanent stormwater control measures (or
calculations) are required by the chapter. In year two, stormwater calculations
shall be submitted and shall be based on the total increase of 40,000 square
feet of impervious area. The following information shall also be provided by
the applicant:
         (a)   A map showing the drainage area divides, including off-site
drainage areas that drain into the site;
         (b)   Location and identification of soil types for entire watershed;
         (c)   Location and identification of vegetative cover for entire
watershed;
         (d)   Runoff curve number calculations for both pre- and post-project
conditions for all sub- watersheds;
         (e)   Time of concentration calculations for both pre- and post-
project conditions for all sub- watersheds, and include a map showing hydraulic
flow lengths used;
         (f)   Peak flow-rate calculations for two-year and 25-year storms for
both pre- and post- project conditions;
         (g)   Design calculations for detention basin outlets for both two-
year and 25-year storms, include stage-storage table and discharge rating curve
data or outflow calculations (refer to optional form in §
151.12);
         (h)   Location dimensions and construction details of proposed
detention basins and outlets;
         (i)   Detention volume calculations; and
         (j)   Summary of peak flow-rates for pre, post, and proposed
conditions with detention showing that the requirements of the chapter are met
(refer to optional form in §
151.12).
      (5)   Schedule or sequence of development or installation of the elements
of the site management control measures proposed above;
      (6)   A detailed estimate of quantities and estimated costs, prepared by
a registered professional engineer, of all control measures required under this
section;
      (7)   A plan of the continued management and maintenance of such
permanent control measures; and
      (8)   An application fee shall be submitted at the time of application.
The fee shall be in the amount of $75 per acre with a minimum fee of $450 and a
maximum fee of $3,000. However, no fee shall be required for any project, the
purpose of which is agricultural. A fractional acre shall be rounded to the
nearest whole acre. There shall be no refund of any fees paid and no
application shall be accepted for filing unless the fee has been paid in full.
   (B)   Application review. Within five working days of submittal of the
application, the Erosion Control Administrator shall respond in writing to the
sediment and erosion control practices portion. Within 20 working days the
Erosion Control Administrator shall respond to the stormwater management plans
and control portion of the application by either issuing a permit, issuing a
request for additional information, or issuing a statement denying the permit
with an explanation of cause. The application shall be deemed approved if no
response is made within the time frames stipulated above.
   (C)   Financial security agreement. Before any erosion sediment and
stormwater control permit is issued, the applicant shall deliver to the Erosion
Control Administrator a cash bond in the name of the county for 100% of the
applicant’s engineer’s estimated cost for all control measures required under
this section. Said cash bond will be delivered by the Erosion Control
Administrator to the County Treasurer and deposited in an interest bearing
escrow account in a county bank with interest to be paid to the applicant. Each
security shall be accompanied by an agreement executed by the applicant, and
approved by the Erosion Control Administrator, wherein the applicant agrees to
install and maintain all maintenance control measures and specifying a date of
completion in accordance with this chapter. If the control measures are
necessitated by construction which is also subject to
Chapter 155, the applicant may submit cash bond to cover 100% of both the
control measures required pursuant to this section and the improvements
governed by
Chapter 155. A signed contractor’s bid that meets the specifications of the
engineer’s estimate for the work can be used to establish the amount of
security required, if such estimate is accepted by the Erosion Control
Administrator.
   (D)   Duration. The erosion sediment and stormwater control permit shall be
issued for a period not exceeding two years.
   (E)   Permit conditions. The erosion sediment and stormwater control permit
shall contain, at a minimum, the following general conditions:
      (1)   The written approval shall be obtained from the Erosion Control
Administrator prior to making any modification to the approved erosion and
sediment control plan as set forth in the permit;
      (2)   All control measures required in the permit shall be installed;
      (3)   All control measures shall be maintained during construction; and
      (4)   Such other conditions as the Erosion Control Administrator deems
appropriate.
   (F)   Permanent ground surface cover. Without exception, all disturbed areas
must have permanent ground cover within six months of project completion or
within six months of occupancy, whichever comes first.
   (G)   Final inspection-notice of permanent stormwater control measures.
Within 14 days after completion of construction, the applicant may notify the
Erosion Control Administrator that the permanent stormwater control measures
are ready for final inspection. If the inspection shows that the control
measures and maintenance plan comply with the standards in §
151.12, the Erosion Control Administrator shall issue a notice of permanent
stormwater control measures. The owner shall record the notice with the County
Recorder of Deeds within 15 days after the notice is issued.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 3-6) (Amended 3-26-2008)
§ 151.07 MAINTENANCE OF PERMANENT STORMWATER CONTROL MEASURES.
   Anyone owning property with a permanent stormwater control measure existing
thereon and installed pursuant to this chapter shall maintain the control
measures so that it functions in compliance with the standards.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 3-7)
§ 151.08 ENFORCEMENT AND STOP WORK ORDER FEE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Erosion Control
Administrator who shall make, or cause to be made, periodic inspections of all
work authorized by permits issued in accordance with this chapter to ensure
that said construction is in compliance with the provisions of the same. He or
she shall make, or cause to be made, investigations of violations of this
chapter and shall cause any violations to be corrected.
   (B)   Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revoked by the
Erosion Control Administrator when he or she finds from personal inspection or
from competent evidence that the rules, regulations, or standards under which
said permit was issued are being violated. To defray costs of administering
stop work orders posted by the field inspectors as a result of a violation of
any of the terms of this chapter, a fee of $250 per violation will be charged
and an additional $20 will be charged per day as the violation exists.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 3-8)
§ 151.09 APPEALS BOARD.
   The Appeals Board shall consider and decide upon appeals of any decision,
order, or requirement of the Erosion Control Administrator made pursuant to
this chapter.
   (A)   The Appeals Board is hereby authorized to be established. Said Appeals
Board shall consist of five members. Each County Board Chairperson of the
counties adopting this chapter shall appoint one member, the Soil and Water
Conservation Districts shall collectively appoint one member, and the
Chairperson of the Tri-County Regional Planning Commission shall appoint one
member. The members shall be professional engineers, licensed architects,
licensed landscape architects, landscape contractors, earthmoving contractors,
home builders, or citizens who have extensive experience in control of
stormwater and soil erosion. The five members on the first Appeals Board shall
draw lots to establish terms of one, two, three, four, and five years,
respectively. Thereafter, as terms expire, each appointment shall be for five
years.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Appeals Board shall be elected at the beginning
of each calendar year from among the members by a majority of the members.
   (C)   All decisions of the Appeals Board must receive the support of a
majority of its members. A majority of the members of the Appeals Board shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; and all questions which
shall arise at meetings shall be determined by the votes of the majority of
members present. The Appeals Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon every question or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such facts, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions. Every rule, and every order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the Appeals Board shall immediately be filed in the office of
the Board and shall be a public record. The concurring vote of three members of
the Appeals Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision, or determination of the Erosion Control Administrator. The Appeals
Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure not in conflict with state law or
this chapter.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 3-10)
§ 151.10 APPEALS TO APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   Any person directly aggrieved by any decision, order, requirement, or
determination of the Erosion Control Administrator made pursuant to this
chapter shall have the right to appeal such action to the Appeals Board. Such
appeal shall be made within 35 days from the date of the action appealed from,
shall be filed in writing, and shall include a short, concise statement of why
the action is being appealed. The fee for such an appeal shall be $45 payable
to the Commission and is due with the application. In addition, the person
filing the appeal shall pay all required publication costs associated with the
appeal.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Commission shall set a date
for a public hearing before the Appeals Board. Such public hearing shall
commence not sooner than 15 days nor more than 30 days after the date of
receipt of the notice of appeal. At least 15 days’ notice of the time and place
of such hearing shall be published in an newspaper of general circulation in
the county. The Appeals Board shall decide the appeal within seven days after
the conclusion of the public hearing. The Appeals Board may affirm, modify, or
reverse any appealed action.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 3-11)
§ 151.11 APPEALS TO COURT.
   Appeals from the Appeals Board shall be made in conformity with the
provisions of the state’s Administrative Review Act, 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
Copies of any orders or proceedings ordered by the appellant shall be furnished
to him or her at his or her own cost.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 3-12)
§ 151.12 STANDARD FOR STORMWATER DESIGN ANALYSIS.
   The following are the minimum standard methods and procedures to be used to
comply with this chapter. If an applicant determines that different methods are
necessary based on site-specific conditions, the applicant must request
approval from the Erosion Control Administrator to use other methods prior to
submittal.
   (A)   Design methods. The design methods listed below are readily available
in a number of computer programs, including the Soil Conservation Service’s TR
20 (SCS) and HEC-1 (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers). Additionally, a simplified
methodology which is based on the use of these methods is available in TR 55
(SCS, 1986). TR 55 can be applied using either manual computations or a
computerized version.
      (1)   Rainfall depth and intensity data. Use data for the county from the
state’s water survey, BUL-70/89, 1989, as presented in division (B) below and
graphically in division (C) below.
      (2)   Storm event rainfall runoff. Use the SCS Runoff Curve Number Method
to determine rainfall runoff depth. See divisions (D) and (F) through (H) below
from TR 55. Soil type information is available from the SCS county soil survey,
1992.
      (3)   Storm distribution (cumulative rainfall versus time). Use the SCS
Type II storm distribution. See divisions (J) and (K) below.
      (4)   Runoff hydrograph. Use the SCS dimensionless hydrograph. See SCS
(1974) for information regarding this procedure. As a substitute for detailed
hydrograph analysis, TR 55 (SCS, 1986) can be used, either manually or computer
program.
      (5)   Storage routing (detention pond analysis). Use the continuity
equation, also known as the Modified-Puls and Storage Indication Methods. As a
substitute for detailed storage routing of a hydrograph, TR 55 (SCS, 1986) can
be used, either manually or computer program. If TR 55 is used and a detention
basin with a two-stage outlet control structure including a rectangular weir
and/or orifice outlet is included as a part of the control measures, use the
attached detention basin outlet worksheet to determine and present the
structure design information.
   (B)   Table 1, rainfall depth, duration, and frequency.
         Rainfall Depth (inches) for Given Frequency
Duration 2-yr 5-yr 10-yr 25-yr 50-yr 100-yr
         Rainfall Depth (inches) for Given Frequency
Duration 2-yr 5-yr 10-yr 25-yr 50-yr 100-yr
5-min.   0.36 0.45 0.53  0.64  0.73  0.83
10-min.  0.66 0.83 0.98  1.17  1.34  1.52
15-min.  0.81 1.02 1.20  1.44  1.64  1.87
30-min.  1.12 1.39 1.64  1.97  2.25  2.56
1-hr.    1.42 1.77 2.09  2.50  2.86  3.25
2-hr.    1.78 2.22 2.62  3.14  3.59  4.08
3-hr.    1.93 2.41 2.85  3.41  3.89  4.43
6-hr.    2.26 2.82 3.33  3.99  4.56  5.19
12-hr.   2.62 3.27 3.87  4.63  5.29  6.02
18-hr.   2.75 3.46 4.09  4.90  5.59  6.37
24-hr.   3.02 3.76 4.45  5.32  6.08  6.92
48-hr.   3.38 4.19 4.86  5.78  6.62  7.51
72-hr.   3.70 4.55 5.26  6.15  7.25  8.16
5-day    4.17 5.11 5.84  6.96  7.98  9.21
10-day   5.12 6.27 7.10  8.19  9.10  10.18
 
   (C)   Figure 1, rainfall depth, duration, and frequency data.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-34.jpg]
 
   (D)   Figure 2.1, solution of runoff equation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-36.jpg]
 
   (E)   Estimating runoff.
      (1)   SCS Runoff Curve Number Method.
         (a)   The SCS Runoff Curve Number (Cn) Method is described in detail
in NEH-4 (SCS 1985). The SCS runoff equation is (Eq. 2-1):
Q= (P - Ia)2
(P - Ia) + S
         (b)   Where: Q= runoff (in.); P = rainfall (in.); S = potential
maximum retention after runoff begins (in.); and Ia = initial abstraction
(in.).
         (c)   Initial abstraction (Ia ) is all losses before runoff begins. It
includes water retained in surface depressions, water intercepted by
vegetation, evaporation, and infiltration. Ia is highly variable but generally
is correlated with soil and cover parameters. Through studies of many small
agricultural watersheds, Ia was found to be approximated by the following
empirical equation (Eq. 2-2):
Ia = 0.2S
         (d)   By removing Ia as an independent parameter, this approximation
allows use of a combination of S and P to produce a unique runoff amount.
Substituting equation 2-2 into equation 2-1 gives (Eq. 2-3):
Q = (P - 0.2S)2
(P - 0.8S)
         (e)   S is related to the soil and cover conditions of the watershed
through the CN. CN has a range of 0 to 100, and S is related to CN by (Eq. 2-
4):
S=  1,000  - 10
   CN
         (f)   Division (D) above and table 2-1 solve equations 2-3 and 2-4 for
a range of CNs and rainfall.
      (2)   Factors considered in determining runoff curve numbers.
         (a)   The major factors that determine CN are the hydrologic soil
group (HSG), cover type, treatment, hydrologic condition, and antecedent runoff
condition (ARC). Another factor considered is whether impervious areas outlet
directly to the drainage system (connected) or whether the flow spreads over
pervious areas before entering the drainage system (unconnected). Figure 2-2 is
provided to aid in selecting the appropriate figure or table for determining
curve numbers.
         (b)   CNs in divisions (F) through (H) represent average antecedent
runoff condition for urban, cultivated agricultural, other agricultural, and
arid and semiarid rangeland uses. Divisions (F) through (H) assumes impervious
areas are directly connected. The following sections explain how to determine
CNs and how to modify them for urban conditions.
      (3)   Hydrologic soil groups.
         (a)   Infiltration rates of soils vary widely and are affected by
subsurface permeability as well as surface intake rates. Solid are classified
into four HSGs (A, B, C, and D) according to their minimum infiltration rate,
which is obtained for bare soil after prolonged wetting. This section defines
the four groups and provides a list of most of the solid in the United States
and their group classification. The soils in the area of interest may be
identified from a soil survey report, which can be obtained from local SCS
offices or soil and water conservation district offices.
         (b)   Most urban areas are only partially covered by impervious
surfaces; the soil remains an important factor in runoff estimates.
Urbanization has a greater effect on runoff in watersheds with solid having
high infiltration rates (sands and gravels) than in watersheds predominantly of
silts and clays, which generally have low infiltration rates.
         (c)   Any disturbance of a soil profile can significantly change its
infiltration characteristics. With urbanization, native soil profiles may be
mixed or removed or fill material from other areas may be introduced.
Therefore, a method based on soil texture is given in Exhibit 2.2 for
determining the HSG classification for disturbed soils.
      (4)   Cover type. Divisions (F) through (H) below address most cover
types, such as vegetation, bare soil, and impervious surfaces. There are a
number of methods for determining cover type. The most common are field
reconnaissance, aerial photographs, and land use maps.
      (5)   Treatment. Treatment is a cover type modifier (used only in
division (G) below) to describe the management of cultivated agricultural
lands. It includes mechanical practices, such as contouring and terracing, and
management practices, such as crop rotations and reduced or no tillage.
      (6)   Hydrologic condition. Hydrologic condition indicates the effect of
cover type and treatment on infiltration and runoff and is generally estimated
from density of plan and residue cover on sample areas. Good hydrologic
condition indicates that the soil usually has a low runoff potential for that
specific hydrologic soil group, cover type, and treatment. Some factors to
consider in estimating the effect of cover on infiltration and runoff are
canopy or density of lawns, crops, or other vegetative areas; amount of year-
round cover; amount of grass or close-seeded legumes in rotations; percent of
residue cover; and degree of surface roughness.
      (7)   Antecedent runoff condition. The index of runoff potential before a
storm event is the antecedent runoff condition (ARC). ARC is an attempt to
account for the variation in CN at a site from storm to storm. CN for the
average ARC at a site is the median value as taken from sample rainfall and
runoff date. The CNs in divisions (F) through (H) are for the average ARC,
which is primarily used for design applications. See the SCS NEH-4 and Rallison
and Miller for more detailed discussion of storm to storm variation and a
demonstration of upper and lower enveloping curves.
      (8)   Urban impervious area modifications. Several factors, such as the
percentage of impervious area and the means of conveying runoff from impervious
areas to the drainage system, should be considered in computing CN for urban
areas. For example, do the impervious areas connect directly to the drainage
system, or do they outlet onto lawns or other pervious areas where infiltration
can occur?
      (9)   Connected impervious areas.
         (a)   An impervious area is considered connected if runoff from it
flows directly into the drainage system. It is also considered connected if
runoff from it occurs as concentrated shallow flow that runs over a pervious
area and then into a drainage system.
         (b)   1.   Urban CNs, division (F) below, were developed for typical
land use relationships based on specific assumed percentages of impervious
area.
            2.   These CN values were developed on the assumptions that
pervious urban areas are equivalent to pasture in good hydrologic condition and
impervious areas have a CN of 98 and are directly connected to the drainage
system.
            3.   Some assumed percentages of impervious area are shown in
division (F) below.
   (F)   Runoff curve numbers for urban areas1.
Cover Description                          Curve Numbers for Hydrologic
                                           Soil Group
Cover type and hydrologic Average percent  A B C D
condition                 impervious area2
Cover Description                          Curve Numbers for Hydrologic Soil
                                           Group
Cover type and hydrologic Average percent  A  B  C  D
condition                 impervious area2
Fully developed urban
areas (vegetation
established):
Open space (lawns, parks,
golf courses, cemeteries,
and the like):
Poor condition (grass                      68 79 86 89
cover < 50%)
Fair condition (grass                      49 69 79 84
cover 50% to 75%)
Good condition (grass                      39 61 74 80
over > 75%)
Impervious areas:
Paved parking lots,
roofs, driveways, and the                  98 98 98 98
like (excluding right-of-
way)
Streets and roads:
Paved; curbs and storm
sewers (excluding right-                   98 98 98 98
of-way)
Paved; open ditches                        83 89 92 93
(including right-of-way)
Gravel (including right-                   76 85 89 91
of-way)
Dirt (including right-of-                  72 82 87 89
way)
Urban districts:
Commercial and business   85               89 92 94 95
Industrial                72               81 88 91 93
Residential districts by average lot size:
1/8 acre or less          65               77 85 90 92
(townhouses)
1/4 acre                  38               61 75 83 87
1/3 acre                  30               57 72 81 86
1/2 acre                  25               54 70 80 85
1 acre                    20               51 68 79 84
2 acres                   12               46 65 77 82
Developing urban areas:
Newly graded areas
(pervious areas only, no                   77 86 91 94
vegetation)
1. Average runoff condition and Ia = 0.2S.
2. The average percent impervious area shown was used to develop the
composite CNs. Other assumptions are as follows: Impervious areas are
directly connected to the drainage system; impervious areas have a CN of 98;
and pervious areas are considered equivalent to open space in good
hydrologic condition. CNs for other combinations of conditions may be
computed using Figure 2-3 or 2-4 in TR 55.
 
   (G)   Runoff curve numbers for agricultural lands1.
Cover Description                           Curve Numbers for Hydrologic Soil
                                            Group
Cover type Treatment2 Hydrologic Condition3 A B C D
Cover Description                                  Curve Numbers for Hydrologic
                                                   Soil Group
Cover type          Treatment2          Hydrologic A  B  C  D
                                        Condition3
                    Bare soil           -          77 86 91 94
Fallow              Crop residue cover  Poor       76 85 90 93
                    (CR)
                                        Good       74 83 88 90
                    Straight row (SR)   Poor       72 81 88 91
Row crops                               Good       67 78 85 89
                    SR + CR             Poor       71 80 87 90
                                        Good       64 75 82 85
                    Contoured (C)       Poor       70 79 84 88
                                        Good       65 75 82 86
                    C + CR              Poor       69 78 83 87
                                        Good       64 74 81 85
                    Contoured and       Poor       66 74 80 82
                    terraced (C&T)
                                        Good       62 71 78 81
                    C&T + CR            Poor       65 73 79 81
                                        Good       61 70 77 80
                    SR                  Poor       65 76 84 88
                                        Good       63 75 83 87
                    SR + CR             Poor       64 75 83 86
                                        Good       60 72 80 84
                    C                   Poor       63 74 82 85
Small grain                             Good       61 73 81 84
                    C + CR              Poor       62 73 81 84
                                        Good       60 72 80 83
                    C&T                 Poor       61 72 79 82
                                        Good       59 70 78 81
                    C&T + CR            Poor       60 71 78 81
                                        Good       58 69 77 80
Close-seeded or     SR                  Poor       66 77 85 89
broadcast                               Good       58 72 81 85
Legumes or rotation C                   Poor       64 75 83 85
                                        Good       55 69 78 83
Meadow              C&T                 Poor       63 73 80 83
                                        Good       51 67 76 80
1. Average runoff condition and Ia = 0.2S.
2. Crop residue cover applies only if residue is on at least 5% of the surface
throughout the year.
3. Hydrologic condition is based on a combination of factors that affect
infiltration and runoff, including: density and canopy of vegetative areas;
amount of year-round cover; amount of grass or close-seeded legumes in
rotations; percent of residue cover on land surface (good > = 20%); and degree
of surface roughness.
Poor factors impair infiltration and lend to increase runoff.
Good factors encourage average and better than average infiltration and tend to
decrease runoff.
 
   (H)   Runoff curve numbers for other agricultural lands1.
Cover Description                       Curve Numbers for Hydrologic Soil Group
Cover Type        Hydrologic Condition3 A B C D
Cover Description                   Curve Numbers for Hydrologic Soil Group
Cover Type           Hydrologic     A          B        C        D
                     Condition3
Brush - brush-weed-
grass mixture with   Poor Fair Good 48 35 30 4 67 56 48 77 70 65 83 77 73
brush the major
element3
Farmsteads -
buildings, lanes,    Poor           59         74       82       86
driveways, and
surrounding lots
Meadow - continuous
grass, protected
from grazing and     Poor           30         58       71       78
generally mowed for
hay
Pasture, grassland,
or range -           Poor Fair Good 68 49 39   79 69 61 86 79 74 89 84 80
continuous forage
for grazing2
Woods - grass
combination (orchard Poor Fair Good 57 43 32   73 65 58 82 76 72 86 82 79
or tree farm)5
Woods6               Poor Fair Good 45 36 30 4 66 60 55 77 73 70 83 79 77
1. Average runoff condition and la = 0.2S.
2. Poor: < 50% ground cover or heavily grazed with no mulch.
Fair: 50 to 75% ground cover and not heavily grazed.
Good: > 75% ground cover and lightly or only occasionally grazed.
3. Poor: < 50% ground cover.
Fair: 50 to 75% ground cover.
Good: > 75% ground cover.
4. Actual curve number is less than 30; use CN=30 for runoff computations.
5. CNs shown were computed for areas with 50% woods and 50% grass (pasture)
cover. Other combinations of conditions may be computed from the CNs for
woods and pasture.
6. Poor: forest litter, small trees, and brush are destroyed by heavy
grazing or regular burning.
Fair: woods are grazed but not burned, and some forest litter covers the
soil.
Good: woods are protected from grazing, and litter and brush adequately
cover the soil.
 
   (I)   Computation sheet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-38.jpg]
 
   (J)   SCS Type II rainfall distribution.
Time
Hour Fraction of Total Fraction of Total Rainfall
Time
Hour  Fraction of Total Fraction of Total Rainfall
0.50  0.021             0.005
1.00  0.042             0.011
1.50  0.063             0.017
2.00  0.083             0.023
2.50  0.104             0.029
3.00  0.125             0.035
3.50  0.146             0.042
4.00  0.167             0.049
4.50  0.188             0.056
5.00  0.208             0.064
5.50  0.229             0.072
6.00  0.250             0.080
6.50  0.271             0.090
7.00  0.292             0.100
7.50  0.313             0.110
8.00  0.333             0.120
8.50  0.354             0.134
9.00  0.375             0.147
9.50  0.396             0.163
10.00 0.417             0.181
10.50 0.438             0.204
11.00 0.458             0.235
11.25 0.468             0.260
11.50 0.479             0.300
11.75 0.490             0.420
12.00 0.500             0.663
12.25 0.510             0.710
12.50 0.521             0.735
13.00 0.542             0.772
13.50 0.563             0.799
14.00 0.583             0.820
14.50 0.604             0.835
15.00 0.625             0.850
15.50 0.646             0.865
16.00 0.667             0.880
16.50 0.688             0.889
17.00 0.708             0.898
17.50 0.729             0.907
18.00 0.750             0.916
18.50 0.771             0.925
19.00 0.792             0.934
19.50 0.813             0.943
20.00 0.833             0.952
20.50 0.854             0.958
21.00 0.875             0.964
21.50 0.896             0.970
22.00 0.917             0.976
22.50 0.938             0.982
23.00 0.958             0.988
23.50 0.979             0.994
24.00 1.000             1.000
 
   (K)   Figure 3, SCS Type II storm distribution.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-40.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 3-Appendix A)
§ 151.13 SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   There are three ways to accomplish urban soil erosion and
sedimentation control:
         (a)   Allow erosion to take place and then control sediment before it
leaves a site;
         (b)   Stop erosion in the watershed (project area) by soil
stabilization or runoff control measures; and
         (c)   A combination of the two (most desirable).
      (2)   The following is a list of common measures that can be used to
control erosion and sediment. It is by no means an exhaustive list. Some
standard drawings are included in this appendix. Additional drawings,
standards, and specifications can be found in the Illinois Urban Manual, IEPA
and USDA, NRCS, 1995 and the Illinois Standards for Urban Soil Erosion and
Sediment Control, the Urban Committee of the Association of the state’s Soil
and Water Conservation Districts, revised July 1988.
   (B)   Control measures.
      (1)   (a)   Perimeter sediment control measures are to be installed
between disturbed areas (including stockpiles) and property lines or drainage
ways in order to protect off-site areas.
         (b)   Control measures should be installed on the down-slope sides of
the disturbed areas where runoff will leave the site.
      (2)   Control measures for different slopes.
Slope Range Control Measure Comments
Slope Range  Control Measure                  Comments
             Vegetative (grass) filter
Less than 2% strips; no minimum width
             requirement
             Vegetative (grass) filter        Size should be increased in
             strips; ten feet wide, minimum   proportion to the drainage area
                                              and slope
                                              Drainage area less than one-half
             Filter fence                     acre per 100 feet; see standard
                                              for spacing criteria
                                              For use in small drainage areas,
2% to < 5%   Straw bales                      see standard for spacing
                                              criteria, maximum life is three
                                              months
             Vegetative buffer area (other    Minimizing disturbed areas is
             than grass), about 50 feet wide, desirable; increase buffer size
             minimum                          in proportion to drainage area
                                              and slope
             Sediment basin                   Can handle sediment from a larger
                                              area
             Vegetative (grass) filter strips Size should be increased in
             20 feet wide, minimum            proportion to the drainage area
                                              and slope
                                              Drainage area less than one-half
             Filter fence                     acre per 100 feet, see standard
                                              for spacing criteria
                                              For use in small drainage areas,
5% to < 10%  Straw bales                      see standard for spacing
                                              criteria, maximum life is three
                                              months
             Vegetative buffer area (other    Minimizing disturbed areas is
             than grass), about 100 feet      desirable; increase buffer size
             wide, minimum                    in proportion to drainage area
                                              and slope
             Sediment basin                   Can handle sediment from a larger
                                              area
                                              Drainage area less than one-half
             Filter fence                     acre per 100 feet, see standard
> 10%                                         for spacing criteria
             Sediment basin                   Can handle sediment from a larger
                                              area
 
      (3)   (a)   Inlet sediment control is to be installed around storm sewer
of other inlets to prevent sediment from entering the system. There are many
different types depending on the type of inlet.
         (b)   Common measures include:
            1.   Inlet protection - excavated drain (division (F) below);
            2.   Inlet protection - block and gravel (division (G) below); and
            3.   Inlet protection - staked straw bales (division (H) below).
      (4)   (a)   Mud and dust control is used to prevent mud and dust from
leaving the site.
         (b)   Common measures include:
            1.   Stabilized construction entrance (division (I) below); and
            2.   Dust control, see the standards and specifications.
   (C)   Runoff control.
      (1)   Concentrated flow areas.
         (a)   Temporary erosion control measures should be installed to
protect drainage ways such as road ditches and waterways until the area is
permanently stabilized.
         (b)   Common measures include:
            1.   Rock checks for waterways (division (J) below);
            2.   Fabric checks for waterways (division (K) below); and
            3.   Erosion blanket.
      (2)   Outlet protection.
         (a)   All outlets should be stabilized to prevent downstream areas
from erosion.
         (b)   Common practices include:
            1.   Pipe outlet channel (division (L) below); and
            2.   Pipe outlet to flat area.
      (3)   Diversions. Surface runoff from adjacent areas should be diverted
around disturbed areas to stable outlets to reduce erosion due to surface
runoff.
   (D) Soil stabilization. (Recommended seeding dates for central Illinois are
shown in bold.)
      (1)   Vegetative soil cover.
         (a)   Temporary seeding is proved a temporary quick cover to control
erosion when permanent seeding is not desired or the time of year is
inappropriate. (Early Spring - September 30.)
         (b)   Permanent seeding provides permanent vegetative cover to control
erosion, filters sediment from water; may be part of final landscaping plan.
(Spring seeding: early Spring - May 15; Fall seeding: August 1 - September 10.)
         (c)   Dormant seeding is the same as permanent seeding except seeding
is done during dormant season. Higher rates of seed application are required.
If no mulch is applied, then perimeter controls should be maintained until the
vegetation is established. (November 15 - March 1.)
         (d)   Sodding is quick, permanent cover to control erosion; quick way
to establish vegetative filter strip; and can be used on steep slopes or in
drainage ways where seeding may be difficult. (Anytime, except when the ground
if frozen.)
         (e)   Ground cover provides ground cover, shrubs, and trees in
addition to permanent vegetation; may be used as part of a final landscape plan
along with shrubs and trees.
      (2)   Non-vegetative soil cover.
         (a)   Mulching provides added insurance of a successful temporary or
permanent seeding, controls unwanted vegetation and preserves moisture, and
provides cover where vegetation cannot be established.
         (b)   Aggregate cover provides soil cover on roads and parking lots
and areas where vegetation cannot be established; prevents mud from being
picked up and transported off-site.
         (c)   Paving provides permanent cover on parking lots, roads, or other
areas where vegetation cannot be established.
   (E)   Silt fence plan.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-42.jpg]
 
   (F)   Inlet protection, excavated drain plan.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-44.jpg]
 
   (G)   Inlet protection, block and gravel plan.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-46.jpg]
 
   (H)   Straw bale barrier plan.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-48.jpg]
 
   (I)   Stabilized construction entrance plan.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-50.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-52.jpg]
 
   (J)   Rock checks for waterways.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-54.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-56.jpg]
 
   (K)   Fabric checks for waterways.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-58.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-60.jpg]
 
   (L)   Pipe outlet to channel.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 3-Appendix B)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any of the terms of this chapter shall constitute an
offense punishable by a fine not to exceed $500, with each day the violation
remains uncorrected constituting a separate offense. Such fine is in addition
to any other remedy provided by law.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 3-9)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN AREAS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Base flood elevation
   
152.04   Duties of the Community Development Administrator
   
152.05   Development permit
   
152.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
152.07   Protecting buildings
   
152.08   Subdivision requirements
   
152.09   Public health and other standards
   
152.10   Carrying capacity and notification
   
152.11   Variances
   
152.12   Disclaimer of liability
   
152.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the county
by county statutory authority in 55 ILCS 5/5-1041 and 55 ILCS 5/5-1063 in order
to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 4-1) (Ord. LU-17-01, passed 1-25-2017)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-year flood. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
152.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings, and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also
includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more
than 180 days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.
      (1)   Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the
population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster.
Damage to these CRITICAL FACILITIES can impact the delivery of vital services,
can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special
populations at risk.
      (2)   Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood protection should be
required include emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities,
major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous, or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts, or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface; and
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filing, grading, or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These two terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the county that are subject
to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of the county are generally
identified on the flood insurance rate map prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated February 17, 2017. FLOODPLAIN also includes those
areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property, and their contents.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
management agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry- flood-proofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway for the floodplains of the Illinois River, the
Mackinaw River, Lost Creek, Lick Creek, and Ten Mile Creek shall be as
delineated on the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by FEMA and
dated February 1, 2017. The FLOODWAYS for each of the remaining floodplains of
the county shall be according to the best data available from the federal,
state, or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions, and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the state’s Historic Preservation Agency; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the state’s Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM. Illinois Department of Natural Resource
Office of Water Resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary
area of 640 acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of any stream
serving a tributary area of 6,400 acres or more in a rural area. Construction
on these streams requires a permit from the Department (Ill Adm. Code title 17,
pt. 3700.30). The Department may grant approval for specific types of
activities by issuance of a statewide permit which meets the standards defined
in §
152.06.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
152.07.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community, and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual START OF
CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial
improvement, actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage during a ten-year period equals or exceeds
50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, regardless
of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must be included
in this determination. The term includes “repetitive loss buildings” (see
definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of a
structure during a ten- year period in which the cumulative percentage of
improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred
repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work
done.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the state’s Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 4-2) (Ord. LU-17-01, passed 1-25-2017)
§ 152.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA
and IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Illinois River,
Lost Creek, Lick Creek, Ten Mile Creek, and Mackinaw River shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of the
county prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and February 17,
2017.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an “AH
Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the county-
wide flood insurance rate map.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an “A Zone” on the flood insurance rate map shall be according to
the best data available from federal, state, or sources. Should no other data
exist, an engineering study must be financed by the applicant to determine base
flood elevations.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 4-3) (Ord. LU-17-01, passed 1-25-2017)
§ 152.04 DUTIES OF THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Community Development Administrator shall be responsible for the
general administration of this chapter and ensure that all development
activities within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the county meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the Community Development Administrator shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
152.05;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
152.07 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or flood- proof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
152.08;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
152.99;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
152.10 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty
actions outlined in §
152.99 as a necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
      (12)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
      (13)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter
and make substantial damage determinations for structures within the
floodplain; and
      (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/
OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 4-4) (Ord. LU-17-01, passed 1-25-2017)
§ 152.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Community Development Administrator. The Community
Development Administrator shall not issue a development permit if the proposed
development does not meet the requirements of this section.
   (A)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
152.07; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
Community Development Administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to
the base flood elevation. Any development located on land that is shown by
survey elevation to be below the current base flood elevation is subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition, any development located on land shown to be below the
base flood elevation and hydraulically connected to a flood source, but not
identified as floodplain on the current flood insurance rate map, is subject to
the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled
after the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate map is not in the
floodplain, and therefore not subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The Community Development Administrator shall maintain documentation
of the existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that
this ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first flood
insurance rate map identification.
   (D)   The Community Development Administrator shall be responsible for
obtaining from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local
permits, approvals or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this
type of activity. The Community Development Administrator shall not issue a
permit unless all other federal, state, and local permits have been obtained.
   (E)   A fee in the amount of $200 shall be collected by the Zoning
Administrator for review and processing of all floodplain development permits.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 4-5) (Ord. LU-17-01, passed 1-25-2017; Res. LU-18-13, passed
8-29-2018)
§ 152.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the flood insurance rate map, and within
all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the following
standards shall apply.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development,
will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the state’s Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources Statewide Permit Number 2;
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 3;
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 4;
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5;
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities such as underground utility
lines, light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding 70 square feet and raising
buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any other
activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6;
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7;
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8;
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9;
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10;
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11;
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 12;
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 13; and
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 4-6) (Ord. LU-17-01, passed 1-25-2017)
§ 152.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of
§
152.06, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured during a ten-year
period. If substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must
meet the flood protection standards of this section;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively during a ten-year period. If substantially
damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section within 24 months of the date the damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage);
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
152.02.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following.
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material and shall not adversely affect the flow of surface
drainage from or onto neighboring properties and, when necessary, stormwater
management techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following.
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters.
         (b)   All components located below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
         (c)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         (d)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation.
         (e)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            1.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            2.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
            3.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below
the flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade.
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four
feet at any point.
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove flood
waters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of
time after a flood event.
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry-flood-proofed (in
lieu of elevation), provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are water- tight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice;
      (3)   Flood-proofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
flood-proofing for the purpose of this division (C).
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with division (B) above; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the state’s
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of division (D) above
unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light-
duty truck;
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel, or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      (5)   The vehicle’s largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      (6)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain;
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect;
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground, and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by used of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds, or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable;
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use;
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits;
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot;
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage;
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area;
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $15,000 in market value or
replacement cost, whichever is greater, or less than 576 square feet (24 feet
by 24 feet);
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning;
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection
elevation; and
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 4-7) (Ord. LU-17-01, passed 1-25-2017)
§ 152.08 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The County Board shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they
are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
152.06 and
152.07. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
   (B)   Streets, blocks, lots, parks, and other public grounds shall be
located and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural
streams and channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included
within parks or other public grounds.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 4-8) (Ord. LU-17-01, passed 1-25-2017)
§ 152.09 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
152.06 and
152.07, the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a flood-proofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or flood-proofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
152.07.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be water-tight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry-
flood-proofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever is greater. Flood-
proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances
will not be displaced by or released into flood waters. Access routes elevated
to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to all
critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 4-9) (Ord. LU-17-01, passed 1-25-2017)
§ 152.10 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the county shall notify adjacent communities in writing
30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of
the watercourse.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 4-10) (Ord. LU-17-01, passed 1-25-2017)
§ 152.11 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Board of Appeals
for a variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the applicant’s
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the County Board.
The County Board may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it
deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of §
152.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
152.07 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair, or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in “historic
structures”, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of §§
152.06 and
152.07 subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
   (D)   (1)   Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall be
decided individually based on a case by case analysis of the building’s unique
circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as well as
those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and
the threat to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be
included for any variance issued for agricultural structures that are
constructed at-grade and wet-flood-proofed.
         (a)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farm houses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
         (b)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in Zone A only as identified on the community’s flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
         (c)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures,
the exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation,
wall framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, and the like) below the
base flood elevation must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
152.07.
         (d)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in
accordance with §
152.07. All of the building’s structural components must be capable of
resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic, buoyancy, and
hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
         (e)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or flood-proofed so that they are
contained within a water-tight, flood-proofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
152.07.
         (f)   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to
the 100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters in accordance with §
152.07(B).
         (g)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of §
152.06. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures within any
designated floodway.
         (h)   Wet-flood-proofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the Floodplain Administrator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 4-11) (Ord. LU-17-01, passed 1-25-2017)
§ 152.12 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside
of the floodplain, will be free from flooding or damage. This chapter does not
create liability on the part of the county or any officer or employee thereof
for any flood damage that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 4-12) (Ord. LU-17-01, passed 1-25-2017)
§ 152.13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the
County Board to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance.
However, this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance
adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does this chapter repeal,
abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
   (B)   Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 4-14) (Ord. LU-17-01, passed 1-25-2017)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Community
Development Administrator may determine that a violation of the minimum
standards of this chapter exists. The Community Development Administrator shall
notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   (B)   If such owner fails after ten days’ notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The county shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense;
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The county shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   (C)   (1)   The Community Development Administrator shall inform the owner
that any such violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages,
and therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
      (2)   The Community Development Administrator is authorized to issue an
order requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop work order
shall be in writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work
order. The stop work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (3)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the County Zoning Board of Appeals. Written
notice of such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         (b)   The time and place of the hearing.
      (4)   At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended
or revoked.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 4-13) (Ord. LU-17-01, passed 1-25-2017)
CHAPTER 153: WIND ENERGY
Section
Wind Farms
   
153.01   Wind energy conversion systems purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Public participation
   
153.04   Special use
   
153.05   Design and installation
   
153.06   Operation and maintenance
   
153.07   Non-conforming use and structure
   
153.08   Complaints
   
153.09   Liability insurance
   
153.10   Decommissioning plan
   
153.11   Fees
Small Wind Energy Systems
   
153.20   Purpose
   
153.21   Authority
   
153.22   Definitions
   
153.23   Small wind energy systems permitted
   
153.24   Application for building permit
   
153.25   Small wind energy systems by special use
   
153.26   Application for special use
   
153.27   Evaluation of special use
   
153.28   Enforcement
WIND FARMS
§ 153.01 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS PURPOSE.
   (A)   To assure that any development and production of wind-generated
electricity in the county is safe and effective;
   (B)   To facilitate economic opportunities for local municipalities,
residents, and the county as a whole;
   (C)   To assure the protection of health, safety, welfare, and property
rights and values of landowners and residents in Tazewell County;
   (D)   To protect the county's ecological environment; and
   (E)   To promote the supply of wind energy in support of Illinois' statutory
goal of increasing energy production from renewable energy sources.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 3-1) (Res. LU-23-09, passed 5-31-2023)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABOVE GROUND CABLE. Electrical power lines installed above grade to be
utilized for conveyance of power from the wind turbines to the wind facility
substation.
   AGRICULTURAL IMPACT MITIGATION AGREEMENT (AIMA). The agreement between the
commercial wind energy facility owner and the Illinois Department of
Agriculture.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND. Land used for cropland, hay land, pasture land, managed
woodlands, truck gardens, farmsteads, commercial ag-related facilities,
feedlots, livestock confinement systems, land on which farm buildings are
located and land in government set-aside programs used for purposes as set
forth above.
   AUTHORIZED FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE. An individual with technical training of
a WECS who has received factory installation instructions and is certified in
writing by the manufacturer of the WECS.
   BEST EFFORTS. Diligent, good faith and commercially reasonable efforts to
achieve a given objective or obligation.
   COMMERCIAL OPERATION DATE. The calendar date on which the commercial wind
energy facility produces power for commercial sale, not including test power.
Within ten calendar days of the commercial operation date, the commercial wind
energy facility owner shall notify the county of the commercial operation date
in writing.
   COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY FACILITY (FACILITY). A wind energy conversion
facility equal or greater than 500 kilowatts in total nameplate generating
capacity.
   CONSTRUCTION. The installation, preparation for installation and/or repair
of a commercial wind energy facility.
   COUNTY. The county where the commercial wind energy facility is located.
   CROPLAND. Land used for growing row crops, small grains, or hay; includes
land which was formerly used as cropland, but is currently in a government set-
aside program and pastureland comprised of prime farmland.
   DECONSTRUCTION/DECOMMISSIONING. The removal of a commercial wind energy
facility  from the property of a landowner and the restoration of that property
as provided in the AIMA. The term "deconstruction" and "decommissioning" have
the same meaning and therefore, may be interchanged with each other.
   DECONSTRUCTION/DECOMMISSIONING PLAN. A plan prepared by a professional
engineer, at the commercial wind energy facility owner's expense, that
includes:
      (1)   The estimated deconstruction cost per turbine, in current dollars
at the time of filing a building permit, for the commercial wind energy
facility, taking into account, among other things:
         (a)   The number of wind turbines and related commercial wind energy
facilities involved;
         (b)   The original construction cost of the commercial wind energy
facilities;
         (c)   The size and capacity of the wind turbines;
         (d)   The salvage value of the commercial wind energy facilities;
         (e)   The construction method and technique for the wind turbines and
other commercial wind energy facilities; and
         (f)   A comprehensive detailed description of how the "facility owner"
plans to pay for the deconstruction of the "facility."
   FACILITY ABANDONMENT. When no electricity is generated by the facility for a
period of 12 months and the facility owner is not undertaking reasonable
efforts to repair or decommission the facility.
   FACILITY OWNER. A person who is acting as a developer of the facility by
acquiring the necessary rights, permits, and approvals or by planning for the
construction and operation of the facility, regardless of whether the person
will own or operate the facility. Also, a person with a direct ownership
interest in a commercial wind energy facility, regardless of whether the person
is involved in acquiring the necessary rights, permits, and approvals or
otherwise planning for the construction and operation of the facility.
   FINANCIAL ASSURANCE. A reclamation bond or other commercial available
financial assurance that is acceptable to the county, with the county as
primary beneficiary and the landowners as secondary beneficiaries.
   IDOA. The Illinois Department of Agriculture.
   MANUAL AND AUTOMATIC CONTROLS. Give protection to power grids and limit
rotation of a WECS’ blades to below the designed limits of the conversion
system.
   NONPARTICIPATING PROPERTY. Real property that is not a participating
property in the project.
   NONPARTICIPATING RESIDENCE. A residence that is located on nonparticipating
property and that is existing and occupied on the date that an application for
a special use approval to develop the commercial wind energy facility is filed
with the county.
   OCCUPIED COMMUNITY BUILDING. Any one or more of the following buildings that
is existing and occupied on the date that the application for a special use
approval to develop the commercial wind energy facility is filed with the
county: a school, place of worship, day care facility, public library, or
community center.
   PARTICIPATING PROPERTY. Real property that is the subject of a written
agreement between a facility owner and the owner of the real property that
provides the facility owner an easement, option, lease, or license to use the
real property for the purpose of constructing a commercial wind energy
facility, or supporting facilities.
   PARTICIPATING RESIDENCE. A residence that is located on participating
property and that is existing and occupied on the date that an application for
a special use approval to develop the commercial wind energy facility is filed
with the county.
   PRIME FARMLAND. Agricultural land comprised of soils that are defined by the
USDA Natural Resources Conservation Services (NRCS) as being "prime" soils
(generally considered the most productive soils with the least input of
nutrients and management).
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer licensed to practice engineering in the
State of Illinois, and who is determined to be qualified to perform the work
described herein by mutual agreement of the county and the "facility owner."
   PROTECTED LANDS. Real property that is subject to a permanent conservation
right consistent with the Real Property Conservation Rights Act; or registered
or designated as a nature preserve, buffer, or land and water reserve under the
Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act.
   SUPPORTING FACILITIES. The transmission lines, substations, access roads,
meteorological towers, storage containers, and equipment associated with the
generation and storage of electricity by the commercial wind energy facility.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT (SWCD). A local unit of government that
provides technical and financial assistance to eligible landowners for the
conservation of soil and water resources.
   TENANT. Any person lawfully residing or leasing/renting land that is subject
to an underlying agreement.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The height measured from the top of a wind tower's foundation
to the tip of the blade at its highest point.
   UNDERLYING AGREEMENT. The written agreement with a landowner(s) including,
but not limited to, an easement, option, lease, or license under the terms of
which another person had constructed, constructs or intends to construct a
commercial wind energy facility on the property of the landowner.
   UNDERGROUND CABLE. Electrical power lines installed below grade to be
utilized for conveyance of power from the wind turbines to the substation.
   USEFUL LIFE. A "facility" will be presumed to have no remaining "useful
life" if: no electricity is generated for a period of 12 months and the
facility owner is not undertaking reasonable efforts to repair or decommission
the facility or the "facility owner" fails, for a period of six consecutive
months, to pay the landowner amounts owed in accordance with the underlying
agreement.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). Any device such as a wind charger,
windmill, or wind turbine that converts wind energy to a form of usable
electrical energy.
   WIND TOWER. The wind turbine tower, nacelle, and blades.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 3-2) (Res. LU-23-09, passed 5-31-2023)
§ 153.03 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter is meant to augment or diminish existing
opportunities for public participation.
   (B)   The county shall hold at minimum one public hearing, allowing the
public the opportunity to present evidence and cross examine the petitioner.
Said hearing shall take place no more than 45 days following the filing of the
application and decision shall be rendered in not more than 30 days following
the public hearing.
(Res. LU-23-09, passed 5-31-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.04 SPECIAL USE REQUIREMENTS.
   The facility owner shall follow the requirements for a Class A special use
request, as specified in the Tazewell County Zoning Code. All other
requirements found herein are not required prior to a request for special use
but encouraged if available, however must be submitted and approved prior to
issuance of siting permit for all WECS.
   (A)   WECS and related substations are permitted only in the A-1, A-2, I-
1 and I-2 zoning districts by special use upon approval by the Tazewell County
Board.
   (B)   Prior to the public hearing, the facility owner must have entered into
the Agricultural Impact Mitigation Agreement required by 55 ILCS 5/5-12020(c).
The facility owner's compliance with the AIMA shall be a condition of the
special use.
   (C)   A request for special use permit for a commercial wind energy facility
or modification of an approved special use permit, shall be approved if the
request is in compliance with the standards and conditions imposed in Public
Act 102-1123 and conditions imposed under any other state and/or federal
statutes and regulations in addition to those specified herein. including
consideration of the substantive due process requirements of the Illinois
Constitution, sometimes referred to as the LaSalle/Sinclair factors, as
follows:
      (1)   The existing uses and zoning of nearby property;
      (2)   The extent to which property values are diminished by the
particular zoning restrictions;
      (3)   The extent to which the destruction of property values of plaintiff
promotes the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the public;
      (4)   The relative gain to the public as compared to the hardship imposed
upon the individual property owner;
      (5)   The suitability of the subject property for the zoned purposed;
      (6)   The length of time the property has been vacant as zoned considered
in the context of the land development in the area in the vicinity of the
subject property;
      (7)   Whether a comprehensive zoning plan for land use and development
existing, and whether the ordinance is in harmony with it; and
      (8)   Whether the community needs the proposed use.
   (D)   For special use permit applications involving multiple WECS towers,
only one application is required for the overall project.
(Res. LU-23-09, passed 5-31-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.05 DESIGN AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Color, towers and blades. Any non-reflective, unobtrusive color such
as gray or white and no visible advertisements shall be permitted on the blades
or tower which will assist in mitigating the visual impact of the structure is
allowable.
   (B)   Lighting. Lighting for the towers shall be constructed only in
accordance with the requirements and standards of the FAA compliant with §
157.056 and any other required regulatory authority in an effort to minimize
the visual impact of the structures.
   (C)   Compliance with Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). It shall be the
responsibility of the facility owner to complete the proper FAA applications
and obtain the proper permits or a determination of no significant impact to
air navigation from the FAA.
   (D)   Warnings. A visible warning sign of "high voltage" must be placed at
the base of all WECS towers, at the entrance to the access road of the
applicable tower and every substation located in the project area. The sign
must have at a minimum six-inch letters.
   (E)   Participating property. The participating property leased for the
purpose of siting WECS shall be separated from a larger tract as described in
the lease agreement and assigned a new parcel identification number by the
Tazewell County Supervisor of Assessments. The new tract of land shall also be
assigned a separate 911 address by the Community Development Department. The
new tract will not be considered to have new parcel boundary lines for setback
purposes and shall remain in the name of the participating property owner. The
purpose of the separation is to create a separate annual property tax bill, to
be the responsibility of the facility owner, and alleviate any potential future
hardship for the property owner, should the facility owner default.
   (F)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Participating residences. All WECS towers shall be set back not
less than one and one-tenth times the tower height to the nearest point on the
outside wall of the structure.
      (2)   Occupied community building. All WECS towers shall be set back not
less than two and one-tenth times the maximum blade tip height of the wind
tower to the nearest point on the outside wall of the structure.
      (3)   Communication and electric overhead transmission lines. All WECS
towers shall be set back a distance of not less than one and one-tenth times
the WECS tower height, measured to the center point of the easement containing
the overhead line, from overhead communication and electrical transmission
lines (not including overhead utility service lines to individual houses or
outbuildings).
      (4)   Public road rights-of-way. All WECS towers shall be set back a
distance of not less than one and one-tenth times the WECS tower height from
public road rights-of-way.
      (5)   Nonparticipating properties. All WECS towers shall be set back a
distance of not less than one and one-tenth times the WECS tower height to the
nearest point on the property line of the nonparticipating property.
      (6)   Nonparticipating residences. All WECS towers shall be setback a
distance of not less than two and one-tenth time the WECS tower height to the
nearest point on the outside wall of the structure.
      (7)   Fish and Wildlife Areas and Illinois Nature Preserve Commission.
All WECS shall be set back a distance not less than two and one-tenth times the
maximum blade tip height of the wind tower to the nearest point on the property
line of the fish and wildlife area or protected land.
   (G)   Height. The tower height must comply with all FAA regulations and may
not exceed the height allowed under a Determination of No Hazard to Air
Navigation by the Federal Aviation Administration under 14 CFR Part 77.
   (H)   Compliance with additional regulations.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the facility owner to contact the
FCC and FAA regarding additional permits necessary or any other applicable
federal or state regulations for the installation of a WECS project prior to
permit issuance.
      (2)   The facility owner shall provide the results and recommendations
from consultation with the Illinois Department of Natural Resources that are
obtained through the Ecological Compliance Assessment Tool (EcoCAT),
      (3)   The facility owner shall provide results of the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service's Information for Planning and Consulting environmental
review or a comparable successor tool that is consistent with the "U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service's Land-Based Wind Energy Guidelines."
      (4)   The facility owner shall demonstrate avoidance of protected lands
as identified by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources and the Illinois
Nature Preserve Commission or consider the recommendations of the Illinois
Department of Natural Resources for setbacks from protected lands, including
areas identified by the Illinois Nature Preserve Commission.
      (5)   The facility owner shall provide evidence of consultation with the
Illinois State Historic Preservation Office to assess potential impacts on
state-registered historic sites under the Illinois State Agency Historic
Resources Preservation Act.
   (I)   Installation certification. Each stage of construction shall be
inspected and approved by a professional engineer or authorized personal as
assigned by the facility owner that construction and installation of the WECS
project meets or exceeds the manufacturer's construction and installation
standards. The submission of written approval upon final inspection shall
initiate the certificate of occupancy and/or use if all other permit
requirements have been verified by the Department.
   (J)   Roads. An applicant proposing to use any county, municipal or township
road(s), for the purpose of transporting WECS or substation parts and/or
equipment for construction, operation, or maintenance of the WECS(s) or
substation(s), shall enter into a road use agreement that includes the
following provisions, at a minimum:
      (1)   A haul route map for review and approval by the respective Road
District Commissioner and the County Engineer prior to the granting of the
siting approval permit. Traffic for construction purposes shall be limited to
these roads.
      (2)   A pre-construction road surface scan shall be conducted to
determine existing road conditions for assessing potential future damage. This
study is to be conducted by an outside civil engineer firm agreed upon by both
the road districts and the facility owner or their respective designee.
      (3)   Required roadways improvements; pre-construction, road upgrades
needed prior to commencement of the construction of the wind farm to ensure the
existing roads are capable of withstanding the proposed traffic and loading,
and post construction.
      (4)   The applicant shall obtain a weight or size permit from all
appropriate government agencies, to include; IDOT, the county, townships and
municipalities prior to construction.
      (5)   Any road damage caused by the transport of the facility's
equipment, the installation, maintenance or removal must be completely repaired
to the satisfaction of the Road District Commissioner and the County Engineer.
The Road District Commissioner and the County Engineer may choose to require
either remediation of the road repair upon completion of the WECS Project or
are authorized to collect fees for necessary remediation.
      (6)   Financial assurance in the amount agreed upon by the Road District
Commissioner and County Engineer to ensure future repairs are completed to
their satisfaction shall be provided. All repairs and improvements to public
roads and roadway appurtenances shall be subject to the prior approval of the
county before being made and shall also be subject to inspection and acceptance
by the county after such repairs and improvements are completed. The county's
road agreement, and any further agreements contemplated therein, regarding the
maintenance and repair of public roads and highways. must be approved by the
Tazewell County Board, to include financial assurance prior the approval of any
WECS building permit applications related to the construction of the proposed
WECS project.
   (K)   Drainage tile. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a facility
owner with siting approval to construct a commercial wind energy facility is
authorized to cross or impact a drainage system, including, but not limited to,
drainage tiles, open drainage districts, culverts, and water gathering vaults,
owned or under the control of a drainage district under the Illinois Drainage
Code without obtaining prior agreement or approval from the drainage district,
except that the facility owner shall repair or pay for the repair of any damage
to the drainage system, in a manner that assures the tile line's proper
operation at the point of repair, caused by the construction or deconstruction
of the commercial wind energy facility within a reasonable time after
construction of the commercial wind energy facility. The following shall apply
to the tile line repair:
      (1)   The facility owner or their designee(s) will work with the
landowner to identify the tile lines traversing the property included within
the underlying agreement which will be crossed or disturbed by the construction
of the facility. All tile lines identified in this manner will be shown on the
construction and decommissioning plans and staked or flagged in the locations
where expected crossing or disturbance is anticipated prior to construction or
decommissioning to alert construction and decommissioning crews to the possible
need for tile line repairs.
      (2)   Tile lines that are damaged, cut, or removed shall be staked or
flagged placed in such a manner they will remain visible until the permanent
repairs are completed. In addition, the location of damaged drain tile lines
will be recorded using global positioning systems (GPS) technology.
      (3)   Temporary repairs shall be made by the facility owner, their
designee or the property owner until such time any of the aforementioned
parties can make permanent repairs. If the tile lines are dry and water is not
flowing, temporary repairs are not required if the permanent repairs can be
made by any of those parties previously mentioned 14 days (weather and soil
conditions permitting) of the time damage occurred; however, the exposed tile
lines will be screened or otherwise protected to prevent the entry of foreign
materials or animals into the tile lines.
      (4)   Where tile lines are severed, repairs shall be made using the IDOA
Drain Tile Repairs or as to agree to with the landowner.
      (5)   If there is any dispute between the landowner and the facility
owner on the method of permanent tile line repair, the appropriate Soil and
Water Conservation District's opinion shall be considered by the facility owner
and the landowner.
      (6)   To the extent practicable, there will be a minimum of one foot of
separation between the tile line and the underground cable whether the
underground cable passes over or under the tile line. If the tile line was
damaged as part of the excavation for installation of the underground cable,
the underground cable will be installed with a minimum one foot clearance under
or over the tile line to be repaired or otherwise to the extent practicable.
      (7)   The original tile line alignment and gradient shall be maintained.
A laser transit shall be used to ensure the proper gradient is maintained. A
laser operated tiling machine shall be used to install or replace tiling
segments of 100 linear feet or more unless otherwise agreed to with the
landowner.
      (8)   During construction stage, all permanent tile line repairs must be
made within 14 days of identification or notification of the damage, weather
and soil conditions permitting. At other times, such repairs must be made at a
time mutually agreed upon by the facility owner and the landowner.
      (9)   Following construction, maintenance and/or decommissioning
activities, the facility owner will utilize best practices to restore the
drainage in the area to the condition it was before the commencement of the
construction/decommissioning activities or those methods agreed to between the
landowner and facility owner. If the landowner and facility owner cannot agree
upon a reasonable method to complete this restoration, the facility owner may -
but is not required to - implement the recommendations of the appropriate
county SWCD and such implementation would resolve the dispute.
      (10)   Following completion of the work, the facility owner will be
responsible for correcting or paying for the correction of all tile line
repairs that fail due to construction, maintenance and/or decommissioning,
provided any such failure was identified by the landowner within 24 months
after construction or decommissioning. The facility owner will not be
responsible for tile line repairs that the facility owner pays the landowner to
perform.
(Res. LU-23-09, passed 5-31-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.06 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Facility owner. Prior to any transfer of ownership, the county shall
be made aware, in writing, and provided with up to date contact information.
   (B)   Facility operation manager. The facility shall have a local contact
for operations and maintenance and it is the responsibility of the facility
owner to ensure the county, at all times, has on file the up to date name and
contact information of the facility operations manager. Additionally, contact
information shall be located at the point of access for each site.
   (C)   Annual inspection report. Every WECS project must be inspected
annually by an authorized factory representative or technician with a
specialized training in wind farm operation, to certify that it is in good
working condition and not a hazard to the public. Said reports shall be
retained and made available to the county upon request for inspection.
   (D)   Interference. If the authorized factory representative, or study
prepared by a reputable third party, determines that the WECS project causes
severe interference with microwave transmissions, residential television
interference, or radio reception, the facility owner must take commercially
reasonable steps to correct the problem.
   (E)   Fire risk. All WECS projects must adhere to all applicable electrical
codes and standards and must remove fuel sources, such as vegetation, from the
immediate vicinity of electrical gear and connections. The facility owner shall
also coordinate with the local fire districts by:
      (1)   Submitting to the local fire department(s) a copy of the project
site plan.
      (2)   Working cooperatively with the fire district(s) having jurisdiction
to develop the fire emergency response plan. The facility owner shall cover the
expense of any additional training agreed upon to be necessary by the facility
owner and fire district. The facility owner shall, upon approval and prior to
permit issuance, submit the Emergency Response Plan and the contact information
of the representative of the fire district(s) who has approved the plan.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall alleviate the need to comply with all
other applicable fire laws and regulations.
   (F)   Shadow flicker. Shall not affect any nonparticipating residence or
occupied community building in excess of 30 hours per year.
   (G)   Noise levels. Noise levels shall be regulated by the Illinois
Pollution Control Board rules and regulations and the applicant shall certify
that applicant's facility is in compliance with the same.
(Res. LU-23-09, passed 5-31-2023)
§ 153.07 NONCONFORMING USE AND STRUCTURES.
   This subchapter has established specific requirement for WECS which must be
satisfied before the County Board may approve a WECS Special Use. However, it
is understood and anticipated that the circumstances beyond the control of the
applicant or operator may cause the WECS to become noncompliant with the
provisions of this subchapter. Recognizing both the legitimate interest of
those who lawfully established such a nonconformity and the need to protect the
public health, safety, comfort and general welfare, the provisions of this
section is intended to provide for the regulation of nonconforming uses, lots
and structures within the following:
   (A)   It is the intent of this section to permit nonconforming uses to
continue until they are removed or until they become a risk to public safety
and health;
   (B)   It is the intent of this section that nonconforming structures shall
not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, unless they are brought into
compliance with the current regulations, subject to reasonable exceptions
listed below;
   (C)   Any nonconforming structure which received a siting approval permit
from the county prior to becoming nonconforming, may be continued only in
accordance with the following:
      (1)   No nonconforming structures shall be:
         (a)   Added to or enlarged in any manner that increases the
nonconformity, except as allowed under the exceptions below;
         (b)   Moved or relocated, in whole or in part, that increases the
nonconformity, except as allowed under the exceptions below; or
         (c)   Renewed if abandoned for a period of 12 continuous months. The
term "abandoned" does not apply to any structure that is not in use or
operation due to on-going construction, maintenance, repair or replacement
work.
      (2)   Nonconforming use of a structure:
         (a)   Used for its intended uses and operation, subject to the
provisions of this division;
         (b)   Damage: restoration or reconstruction;
         (c)   A nonconforming structure may be: Restored or reconstructed to
its original size, height and dimensions, if damaged or destroyed, subject to
compliance with applicable then current state or federal laws governing the
construction and operation of WECS. Said restoration or reconstruction shall be
upon (a) the original foundation, if feasible; or (b) the location of the
original foundation; or (c) a new location that does not increase the
nonconformity; or
         (d)   A WECS tower may be restored or reconstructed at its original
location where it existed prior to construction of any primary structure
following the initial approval and construction of the original tower,
participant or non-participant.
      (3)   Exceptions:
         (a)   Structural alterations or repairs of a nonconforming structure
required by law shall be permitted;
         (b)   No nonconforming structure shall be structurally altered or
enlarged in such a manner that would further increase the nonconformity, except
that structural alterations or operations components related with normal
maintenance, repairs and replacements may be permitted where there is no
increase in the existing encroachments; and
         (c)   Provided that the result is to change the status of a structure
or use from nonconforming to conforming, such structure or use may be:
structurally altered, added to or enlarged, moved or relocated, in whole or
part, expanded or extended, changed or, restored or reconstructed.
(Res. LU-23-09, passed 5-31-2023)
§ 153.08 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints should be made directly to the operation facility
manager or their designee. Contact information for the facility should be
publicly accessible via a facility website and at the point of access to each
tower site.
   (B)   The operation facility representative or their designee shall make the
county aware of the complaint and remedies to the complaint in writing as soon
as it is feasible to do so but no more than 72 hours following receipt of the
complaint. Both the operator and the county shall keep a log of all complaints
related to the project.
   (C)   Should a complaint be validated that violates any of the criteria of
approval, the turbine shall not be made operational until the violation has
been resolved. Should it be necessary and safe to do so, the turbine may be
made operational for the purpose of determining compliance.
   (D)   The cost of investigation into any non-compliance of the approved
special use or the permitted equipment throughout the life of the project shall
be on the burden of the facility owner and all costs of said investigation
shall be incurred by the facility owner. Operations of any wind tower or
related equipment shall cease and remain nonoperational until said
investigations have been completed and compliance requirements have been
satisfied.
   (E)   If a validated complaint cannot be mitigated, the owner/operator may
seek a variance for the deviation of compliance to allow the continued
operation of the turbine identified to be noncom pliant. If the variance is not
approved, the turbine shall be remain nonoperational until which time a
feasible and agreeable solution can be determined.
(Res. LU-23-09, passed 5-31-2023)
§ 153.09 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   The owner or operator of the WECS shall maintain a current general
liability policy covering bodily injury and property damage with limits of at
least $5,000,000 per occurrence and $10,000,000 in the aggregate, with an
annual certificate of insurance being provided to the county, with the county
being added as an additional insured, with the designation of primary and
noncontributory.
   (B)   The applicant, owner or operator shall promptly increase such
liability insurance if such amount is increased in the WECS Ordinance and the
applicant, owner or operator is notified in writing of same by the county. The
applicant shall provide evidence of such increased insurance to the Community
Development Administrator.
   (C)   Insurance coverage shall be maintained without interruption from the
date of permitting through the decommissioning of all wind turbines.
Certificates of insurance acceptable to the county and in compliance with this
section shall be filed with the county prior to the commencement of any work on
the WECS and thereafter upon renewal or replacement of each required policy of
insurance. These certificates and the insurance policies required under this
section shall contain a provision that coverages afforded under the policies
shall not be cancelled or allowed to expire until at least 60 days written
notice has been given to the county.
   (D)   Applicant shall also, to the fullest extent permitted by law,
indemnify, and hold the county, its employees, board members and agents
harmless for any action due to or arising out of the construction, maintenance,
decommissioning, deconstruction and/or operation of the WECS.
(Res. LU-23-09, passed 5-31-2023)
§ 153.10 DECOMMISSIONING PLAN.
   (A)   Decommissioning of a facility shall include the removal of the
following equipment/facilities utilized for operation of the facility and
located on landowner property:
      (1)   Wind turbine towers and blades;
      (2)   Wind turbine generators;
      (3)   Wind turbine foundations (to a depth of five feet);
      (4)   Transformers;
      (5)   Collection/interconnection substation (components, cable, and steel
foundations), provided, however, that electrical collection cables at a depth
of five feet or greater may be left in place;
      (6)   Overhead collection system;
      (7)   Operations/maintenance buildings, spare parts buildings and
substation/ switching gear buildings unless otherwise agreed to by the
landowner;
      (8)   Access road(s) (unless landowner requests in writing that the
access road is to remain);
      (9)   Operation, maintenance, yard/staging area unless otherwise agreed
to by the landowner; and debris and litter generated by deconstruction and
deconstruction crews;
      (10)   The facility owner shall, at its expense, complete decommissioning
of a commercial wind energy facility 12 months after the end of the useful life
of the facility;
      (11)   Prior to issuance of the county building permit, the facility
owner shall have the approval of the Decommissioning Plan and required
financial assurance.
   (B)   Financial assurance to cover the estimated costs of decommissioning of
the commercial wind energy facility shall be at 100% of the cost estimate
submitted and approved by the county. Financial assurance shall be made in the
form of a surety or like bond and revaluated every four years for economic
relevance. Said revaluation must be performed by an independent third party
professional engineer licensed in the State of Illinois and provided for review
by the county. Should the county find reason to disagree with the revaluation,
the county shall retain the services of an additional State of Illinois
Licensed Professional Engineer, at the cost of the facility owner. Based on any
revaluation, the county may require changes in the level of financial assurance
used to calculate the phased coverages. After all available decommissioning
funds have been utilized the property owner of record is responsible for any
remaining cost to complete the decommissioning plan.
   (C)   The financial assurance shall not release the surety from liability
until the financial assurance is replaced. The salvage value of the facility
may only be used to reduce the estimated costs of decommissioning in the plan
if the county agrees that all interests in the salvage value are subordinate or
have been subordinated to that of the county if abandonment occurs.
   (D)   The county shall require the revaluation of the estimated costs of
decommissioning of any commercial wind energy facility following the fourth
year of operation and every four years following, for the operational life of
the facility.
   (E)   Upon abandonment, a period of 12 months following the facility's end
of life usefulness, the county may take all appropriate actions for
decommissioning, including, drawing upon the financial assurance.
(Res. LU-23-09, passed 5-31-2023)
§ 153.11 FEES CHARGES FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   The fees for processing of the building permit applications for a WECS shall
be collected by the Community Development Administrator who shall be
accountable to the county for such fees. Each turbine: $20 per foot of total
tower height.
(Res. LU-23-09, passed 5-31-2023)
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS
§ 153.20 PURPOSE.
   The requirements of this chapter are established for the purpose of allowing
the county residents and businesses to use small wind energy systems to harness
wind energy for individual properties in order to reduce on-site energy
consumption while protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the county. The requirements of this subchapter shall apply to small wind
energy systems when they are allowed as a permitted use or by special use under
the County Zoning Code.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 4-1)
§ 153.21 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/5-12001 et seq., the county has the authority to
regulate and restrict the location and use of structures.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 4-2)
§ 153.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DENSITY. The number of buildings in a given area.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration of the United States Department of
Transportation.
   GUY CABLE. Any cable or wire that extends from a small wind energy system
for the purpose of supporting the system structure.
   PRIMARY STRUCTURE. The structure that one or more persons occupy the
majority of time on a property for either business or personal reasons. PRIMARY
STRUCTURE includes structures such as, but not limited to, residences,
commercial buildings, industrial buildings, and schools.
   SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system consisting of a
single wind turbine, single tower, and associated control or conversion
electronics that generates power for an individual property for the purpose of
reducing on-site energy consumption.
   SYSTEM. A small wind energy system.
   SYSTEM HEIGHT. The height above grade of the highest point of the arc of the
blades.
   TOWER. The upright portion of a small wind energy system to which the
primary generator devices are attached.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 4-3)
§ 153.23 SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS PERMITTED.
   A small wind energy system shall be permitted by building permit if all of
the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The system height is no greater than 100 feet;
   (B)   The parcel on which the system is to be located shall be no smaller
than one acre and shall only be permitted as an accessory use to a primary
structure, and in no case shall a small wind energy system be permitted on a
vacant parcel;
   (C)   Small wind energy systems shall be permitted in all zoning districts
except the R-1 and R-2 Zoning Districts; and
   (D)   There shall be no more than one small wind energy system located on a
parcel.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 4-4)
§ 153.24 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   When a small wind energy system is allowed as a permitted use, a site plan
shall be submitted to the Community Development Administrator demonstrating
compliance with the following restrictions.
   (A)   Purpose. The only allowable purpose of a small wind energy system is
to reduce on-site energy consumption.
   (B)   Setbacks. All parts of the structure of a small wind energy system,
including the tower, base, footings, and turbine, but excluding guy cables and
their anchors, shall be set back a distance equal to 110% of the system height
from all adjacent property lines and a distance equal to 150% of the system
height from any inhabited structure, road right-of-way, railroad right-of-way,
and right-of-way for overhead electrical transmission or distribution lines.
Guy cables and their anchors shall meet the setback requirements under the
County Zoning Code for accessory structures in the zoning district in which the
system is proposed to be located.
   (C)   Noise. The small wind energy system shall not exceed a noise level of
60 decibels as measured at the closest property line. The noise level may be
exceeded during short-term events such as utility outages and/or severe wind
storms.
   (D)   Building Code compliance. Building permit applications shall be
accompanied by standard drawings of the system structure, including the tower,
base, footings, and guy cables. An engineering analysis of the tower showing
compliance with the Uniform Statewide Building Code and certified by a licensed
professional engineer also shall be submitted. This analysis may be supplied by
the manufacturer.
   (E)   Electric Code compliance. Building permit applications for small wind
energy systems shall be accompanied by a line drawing of the electrical
components of the system showing compliance with the National Electric Code and
certified by a licensed professional engineer. This information may be supplied
by the manufacturer.
   (F)   Notifications regarding aircraft. Small wind energy systems shall
comply with all applicable regulations of the FAA, including any necessary
approvals for installations close to airports. The applicant has the
responsibility of determining the applicable FAA regulations and securing the
necessary approvals. If the system is proposed to be sited in an agricultural
area that may have aircraft operating at low altitudes, the applicant shall
notify all aircraft pilots that conduct activities pertaining to agriculture
registered to operate in the county no later than five business days prior to
submitting a building permit application. Copies of letters must be included in
the building permit application.
   (G)   Local utility company notification. If a small wind energy system is
to be connected to the electricity grid, the applicant shall notify the
electric utility service provider that serves the proposed site of his or her
intent to install an interconnected customer-owned electricity generator no
later than five business days prior to submitting a building permit
application. Copies of letters must be included in the building permit
application.
   (H)   Minimum distances. The distance between any protruding blades utilized
on a small wind energy system and the ground shall be a minimum of 15 feet as
measured at the lowest point of the arc of the blades. The distance between the
lowest point of the arc of the blades and the peak of any structure within 150
feet of the blade arc shall be a minimum of ten feet.
   (I)   Radio and television signals. The small wind energy system shall not
cause any radio, television, microwave, or navigation interference. If a signal
disturbance problem is identified, the applicant shall correct the problem
within 90 days of being notified of the problem.
   (J)   Appearance. The small wind energy system shall maintain a galvanized
neutral finish or be painted to conform the system color to the surrounding
environment to minimize adverse visual effects. No small wind energy system
shall have any signage, writing, pictures, or decorations placed on it at any
time other than warning equipment and ownership information. No small wind
energy system shall have any flags, streamers, banners, and other decorative
items that extend from any part of the system placed on it at any time.
   (K)   Repair. A small wind energy system that is not functional shall be
repaired by the owner or removed. In the event that the county becomes aware of
any system that is not operated for a continuous period of three months, the
county will notify the landowner by registered mail and provide 45 days for a
written response. The written response shall include reasons for the
operational difficulty, the corrective actions to be performed, and a
reasonable timetable for completing the corrective actions. If the county deems
the corrective actions and/or the timetable for completing corrective actions
as unfeasible and/or unreasonable, the county shall notify the landowner and
such landowner shall remove the turbine within 120 days of receiving said
notice.
   (L)   Removal upon end of useful life. When a system reaches the end of its
useful life and can no longer function, the owner of the system shall remove
the system within 120 days of the day on which the system last functioned. The
owner is solely responsible for removal of the system and all costs, financial
or otherwise, of system removal.
   (M)   Fencing. The tower shall be enclosed with a fence of at least eight
feet in height or the base of the tower shall not be climbable for a distance
of 12 feet measured from the ground.
   (N)   Height. The applicant shall provide evidence that the proposed height
does not exceed the height recommended by the manufacturer or distributor of
the system.
   (O)   Required safety features. The small wind energy system shall have an
automatic overspeed control to render the system inoperable when winds are
blowing in excess of the speeds for which the system is designed and a manually
operable method to render the system inoperable in the event of a structural or
mechanical failure of any part of the system.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 4-5)
§ 153.25 SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS BY SPECIAL USE.
   A special use shall be required for a small wind energy system if one or
more of the following conditions apply:
   (A)   The system height is greater than 100 feet;
   (B)   The parcel on which the system is to be located is smaller than one
acre; and/or
   (C)   Failure to meet the criteria as set forth under §
153.24.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 4-6)
§ 153.26 APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE.
    When a special use is required for a small wind energy system, a site plan
shall be submitted to the Community Development Administrator demonstrating
compliance with the restrictions listed in §
153.24. An application shall also be submitted to the Community Development
Administrator which meets the requirements of the application procedures found
in §§
157.435 through
157.447.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 4-7)
§ 153.27 EVALUATION OF SPECIAL USE.
   Following the procedures as established in §§
157.435 through
157.447, the Zoning Board of Appeals, in evaluating a special use for a small
wind energy system, shall consider the following matters:
   (A)   The height of the system relative to the size of the parcel on which
the system is proposed to be located;
   (B)   The need for the proposed height of the system in order to allow the
system to operate effectively;
   (C)   The visual impacts of the system on adjacent properties and the
general area in which the system is proposed to be located;
   (D)   The building density of the general area in which the system is
proposed to be located;
   (E)   Whether a substantial adverse effect on public safety will result from
the height of the system or some other aspect of the system’s design or
proposed construction, but only if that aspect of design or construction is
modifiable by the applicant;
   (F)   The existing uses on adjacent and nearby properties; and
   (G)   Whether the design of the proposed system reflects compliance with §
153.24.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 4-8)
§ 153.28 ENFORCEMENT.
   The erection or operation of any small wind energy system in violation of
the subchapter shall subject the owner and/or the operator of the system to
civil penalty. The civil remedies available to the court shall include the
removal of the system. If such removal is ordered, all expenses shall be paid
by the owner and/or operator of the system.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 4-9)
CHAPTER 154: BUILDING AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Scope
   
154.002   Authority
   
154.003   Effective date
   
154.004   Rules of construction
   
154.005   Illinois Department of Public Health
   
154.006   Referenced in codes adopted herein by reference
   
154.007   Fees
   
154.008   Issuance or posting of violation notices
   
154.009   Other county regulations and the Illinois Environmental Barriers Act
   
154.010   Enforcement
   
154.011   Building permit fee schedules
Building Code
   
154.025   Adopted by reference
   
154.026   Amendments to Building Code
Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings
   
154.040   Adopted by reference
   
154.041   Amendments to Residential Code
Property Maintenance Code
   
154.055   Adopted by reference
   
154.056   Amendments to Property Maintenance Code
Electrical Code
   
154.070   Adopted by reference
Plumbing Code
   
154.085   Adopted by reference
Mechanical Code
   
154.100   Adopted by reference
   
154.101   Amendments to Mechanical Code
Fire Code
   
154.115   Adopted by reference
   
154.116   Amendments
Energy Conservation Code
   
154.130   Adopted by reference
   
154.131   Amendments
NFPA 101 Life Safety Code
   
154.135   Adopted by reference
International Existing Building Code
   
154.140   Adopted by reference
   
154.141   Amendments
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
   
154.145   Adopted by reference
   
154.146   Amendments
Display of Address
   
154.150   Purpose
   
154.151   911 address number signs required
   
154.152   Effective date
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 SCOPE.
   (A)    The county adopts as the Building and Property Maintenance Code, the
following documents with certain insertions, deletions, and changes:
      (1)   International Residential Building Code 2018;
      (2)   International Building Code 2018;
      (3)   International Existing Building Code 2018;
      (4)   International Property Maintenance Code 2018;
      (5)   NFPA 70: National Electrical Code 2017 Edition;
      (6)   State of Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code Part 890;
      (7)   International Mechanical Code 2018;
      (8)   International Fire Code 2018;
      (9)   Illinois Accessibility Code;
      (10)   Illinois Energy Conservation Code, most current edition; and
      (11)   NFPA 100, Life Safety Code.
   (B)   This chapter and the codes adopted herein by reference shall apply in
the unincorporated areas of the county.
   (C)   Private sewage disposal systems shall not be subject to any of the
codes adopted herein by reference, but shall be subject to the requirements of
Chapter 94.
   (D)   Water wells and the installation of water well pumps shall not be
subject to any of the codes adopted herein by reference, but shall be subject
to the requirements of §§
94.01 through
94.10.
   (E)   Where provisions under §§
154.055 and
154.056 are in conflict with §§
91.45 through
91.50 and
Chapter 153, the provision or requirement which is the most restrictive or
which establishes the higher standard shall prevail.
   (F)   Buildings and structures located in the special flood hazard area
shall be designed and constructed to meet the requirements of
Chapter 152 regulating development in floodplain areas.
   (G)   This chapter and the codes adopted herein by reference shall not apply
to buildings and structures used for agricultural purposes on an operating
farm, including farm residences.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-1(a)) (Res. LU-18-04, passed 4-25-2018; Res. LU-21-06,
passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.002 AUTHORITY.
    This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted in section 5-1063
of the Counties Code (55 ILCS 5/5-1063) and 47-5 of the Criminal Code of 1961
(720 ILCS 5/47-5).
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-1(b)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.003 EFFECTIVE DATE.
    This chapter and the codes adopted herein by reference shall be effective
as of September 1, 2021.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-1(c)) (Res. LU-18-04, passed 4-25-2018; Res. LU-21-06,
passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.004 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The present tense includes the future tense, and vice versa.
   (B)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   (C)   The singular includes the plural and vice versa.
   (D)   The words “shall”, “must”, and “will” are mandatory in nature,
implying an obligation or duty to comply with the particular provision.
   (E)   The word “may” is permissive in nature.
   (F)   The word “person” includes a partnership, association, firm, trust,
club, institution, company, or corporation as well as the individual.
   (G)   Any act authorized by these regulations to be carried out by a
specific official or agency of the county is implicitly authorized to be
carried out by a designee of such official or agency.
   (H)   The time within which an act is to be done shall be computed by
excluding the first and including the last day; if the last day is a Saturday,
Sunday, or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   (I)   If there is any conflict between this subchapter and the provisions of
any code adopted herein by reference, the terms of this subchapter shall be
controlling.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-1(e)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.005 ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH.
   No regulation adopted herein shall be enforced if it is in conflict with any
rule of the Illinois Department of Public Health.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-1(g)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.006 REFERENCED IN CODES ADOPTED HEREIN BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Any reference to the “code official” or “building official” shall be
read as the “Community Development Administrator”.
   (B)   Any reference to the “code official” under §§
154.055 and
154.056 shall read as “Community Development Administrator” and “Tazewell
County Director of Health”.
   (C)   Any reference to the “International Zoning Code” shall be read as the
“Zoning Ordinance of the County of Tazewell, Illinois”,
Chapter 157.
   (D)   Any reference to the “International Plumbing Code” shall be read as
the “Illinois Plumbing Code”, 77 Ill. Adm. Code Pt. 890.
   (E)    Any reference to the “ICC Electrical Code” shall be read as the “NFPA
70, National Electrical Code, 2017 Edition”.
   (F)   Any reference to the “fire code official” shall be read as “fire
protection district or their designee”.
   (G)   Any reference to “occupancy permit” shall be read as “certificate of
occupancy”.
   (H)   Any reference to the “International Energy Conservation Code” shall be
read as the “Illinois Energy Conservation Code, Part 600 Illinois
Administrative Code” as the code reads as of the time of this language or as
the code is amended and updated.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-1(h)) (Res. LU-18-04, passed 4-25-2018; Res. LU-21-06,
passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.007 FEES.
   (A)   Fees required under this chapter and the codes adopted herein by
reference are set forth in §
154.011.
   (B)   All applications submitted for approval under the codes adopted herein
by reference shall be accompanied by payment of a fee as adopted by the County
Board from time to time to defray the costs incurred by the county in reviewing
the application. No application shall be considered to be complete until such
fee has been paid. No permit required by any of the codes adopted herein by
reference shall be issued until the applicable fee has been paid.
   (C)   Whenever the Community Development Administrator determines that any
tests are required to determine compliance with any of the codes adopted herein
by reference or determines that an expert’s opinion is required to determine
compliance with any said codes, the costs of such tests and fees of such
experts shall be paid by the owner and/or permit applicant.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-1(i)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.008 ISSUANCE OF POSTING OF VIOLATION NOTICES.
   (A)   Whenever the Community Development Administrator determines that a
violation of any of the codes adopted herein by reference exists, in addition
to the requirements of said codes, he or she shall cause a notice of such
violation to be posted in a conspicuous place near the main entrance of the
affected building, or the Community Development Administrator may utilize the
proceedings set forth in
Chapter 34 of the County Code.
   (B)   The posted notice shall be at least nine inches in height and 14
inches in width and at the top thereof in large letters shall state “notice of
violation”. The text of the notice shall contain a reference to the provision
of the code violated and may contain such other information respecting the
nature of the violation as the Community Development Administrator deems
advisable.
   (C)   Upon removal of the cause of the violation for which the notice is
posted, the Community Development Administrator or his or her designee shall
remove the notice.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-1(j)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.009 OTHER COUNTY REGULATIONS AND THE ILLINOIS ENVIRONMENTAL BARRIERS ACT.
   Any permit required under this chapter and the codes adopted herein by
reference shall be issued only after the Community Development Administrator
determines that the work requiring a permit complies with all other applicable
regulations of the county and the Illinois Environmental Barriers Act (410 ILCS
25/1 et seq.) now in effect or as hereafter amended, if applicable.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-1(k)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.010 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Action by the State’s Attorney’s Office. If any notice of violation is
not complied with promptly, the Community Development Administrator is
authorized to request the State’s Attorney to institute the appropriate
proceedings in the circuit court:
      (1)   To prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, installation, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use of the
building, structure, or equipment;
      (2)   To prevent the occupancy of the building or structure or use of
equipment;
      (3)   To restrain, correct, or abate the violation; or
      (4)    To prosecute any violation of the Property Maintenance Code for
which a notice to appear was issued pursuant to division (B) below.
   (B)   Code Hearing Unit. As an alternative or in addition to the remedies
provided for in division (A) above, if any notice of violation is not complied
with promptly, the Community Development Administrator is authorized to utilize
the proceedings set forth in
Chapter 34.
   (C)   Stop work orders. Whenever the Community Development Administrator
finds any work regulated by this chapter or the codes adopted herein by
reference is being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this
chapter or the codes adopted herein by reference he or she is authorized to
issue a stop work order.
      (1)   Issuance. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be
given to the owner of the property involved, or to the owner’s agent, or to the
person doing the work, or posted in a conspicuous location on the property
where the violation occurred. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited
work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for
the order, and the conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to
resume.
      (2)   Fee. The Community Development Administrator shall assess a fee for
the stop work order as set forth in §
154.011.
      (3)   Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been issued a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject
to penalties as prescribed herein.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-1(f)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.011 BUILDING PERMIT FEE SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   Dwellings: one- and two-family/additions and alterations to
dwellings, includes plan review and building permit fee.
 
Less than 200 square feet          $200
201 square feet to 699 square feet $300
700 to 1,000 square feet           $400
1,001 to 2,000 square feet         $450
2,001 to 3,000 square feet         $500
3,001 to 4,000 square feet         $550
In excess of 4,000 square feet     $50 per 1,000 square feet or fraction
                                   thereof
 
      (2)   New accessory structures/additions and alterations to accessory
structures, includes plan review and building permit.
 
Less than 200 square feet      $100
201 to 650 square feet         $180
651 to 1,200 square feet       $245
1,201 to 2,500 square feet     $400
In excess of 2,500 square feet $15 per 1,000 square feet or fraction thereof
 
      (3)   Decks/covered patios.
 
Less than 200 square feet  $60
201 to 650 square feet     $140
651 to 1,200 square feet   $205
1,201 to 2,500 square feet $360
 
      (4)   Electrical permits.
 
Per dwelling unit                                                    $55
Alterations, additions, accessory structures, or service replacement $45
 
      (5)   Plumbing permits.
 
Up to 16 fixtures (see “fixtures” bel$55
Per additional fixture                   $15
Domestic water heater                    $15
 
      (6)   HVAC permits.
 
Heating $50 per heating unit
Cooling $50 per cooling unit
 
   (B)   Commercial, industrial, multi-family, or not for profit structures.
      (1)   New construction, includes plan review and building permit.
 
120 to 400 square feet         $700
401 to 1,000 square feet       $775
1,001 to 2,000 square feet     $825
2,001 to 3,000 square feet     $900
3,001 to 4,000 square feet     $975
In excess of 4,000 square feet $50 each additional 1,000 square feet or
                               fraction thereof
 
      (2)   Additions or alterations and accessory structures, includes plan
review and building permit.
 
120 to 400 square feet         $550
401 to 1,000 square feet       $625
1,001 to 2,000 square feet     $675
2,001 to 3,000 square feet     $750
3,001 to 4,000 square feet     $825
In excess of 4,000 square feet $50 each additional 1,000 square feet or
                               fraction thereof
 
      (3)   Electrical permits (includes electrical service upgrades and
revisions).
 
Up to 1,500 square feet        $55
In excess of 1,500 square feet $45 per additional 1,500 square feet for
                               fraction thereof
 
      (4)   Plumbing permits.
 
Up to 16 fixtures (see “fixtures” bel$55
Per additional fixture                   $15
 
      (5)   HVAC permits.
         (a)   Heating.
 
Up to 1,500 square feet        $55
In excess of 1,500 square feet $45 per additional 1,500 square feet or fraction
                               thereof
 
         (b)   Cooling.
 
Up to 1,500 square feet        $55
In excess of 1,500 square feet $45 per additional 1,500 square feet or fraction
                               thereof
 
      (6)   Not for profit. Three hundred dollar minimum or $2 per $1,000 of
estimated cost.
   (C)   Miscellaneous permits/fees.
Above ground swimming pools              $100*
Agriculture stop work order              $25
Billboards                               $300*
Commercial/industrial stop work order    $500
Communication facilities (co-location)   $1,250*
Communication facilities (includes       $25 per vertical foot*/ $1,250 minimum
equipment buildings and fencing)
Demolitions                              $100
Fences                                   $50
In-ground swimming pools                 $175*
Move a structure                         $100*
Re-inspection fee/failure to obtain
inspection: when additional inspections
are required as a result of work not
being ready or as a result of continuing $75
violations an additional inspection fee
shall be charged and when the owner/
applicant fails to obtain required
inspections
Residential stop work order              $200
Signs                                    $110*
Small cell wireless facility:
Single wireless on existing structure    $650*
Multiple wireless single application     $350*
collocate existing structure
Wireless facility replacement or         $1,000*
installation of new structure
Small wind energy systems                $200*
Wind energy conversion systems           $25 per foot of total height, per
                                         turbine (including blades)*
* An electrical and/or plumbing permit may also be required
 
   (D)   Plumbing fixtures. The term FIXTURE shall include, but is not limited
to, any device which a plumbing connection is required (i.e., toilets, wash
basins, interceptors, water heaters, bath tubs, sinks, drinking fountains,
“roughed-in” fixtures, urinals, showers, floor drains, and sewage ejectors).
   (E)   Permit extension. If work has not commenced within 180 days of permit
issuance, permit may be extended for one-half of initial fee, provided that no
changes have been made or will be made to the original construction documents
and that suspension of work has not exceeded one year. A permit shall not be
extended more than once.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-Appendix A) (Res. LU-18-13, passed 8-29-2018; Res. LU-21-
06, passed 7-28-2021)
BUILDING CODE
§ 154.025 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The 2018 International Building Code is hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-2(a)) (Res. LU-18-04, passed 4-25-2018; Res. LU-21-06,
passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.026 AMENDMENTS TO BUILDING CODE.
    The 2018 International Building Code as adopted herein by reference is
amended as provided in this section.
   (A)   Section 101.1 “Title” is hereby amended to read as follows: These
regulations shall be known as the Building Code of Tazewell County, hereinafter
referred to as “this code”.
   (B)   Section 101.4.3. “Plumbing” is hereby amended by deleting the second
sentence in its entirety.
   (C)   Section 101.4.6 “Energy” is hereby amended to read as follows: The
provisions of the currently adopted Illinois Energy Conservation Code shall
apply to all matters governing the design and construction of buildings for
energy efficiency.
   (D)   Section 103.1 “Creation of enforcement agency” is hereby amended to
read as follows: The Community Development Department shall be the Department
of Building Safety, and the person in charge thereof shall be the Community
Development Administrator.
   (E)   Section 104.8 “Liability” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (F)   Section 104.10.1 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (G)   Section 105.1 “Required” is hereby amended to read as follows: Any
owner or authorized agent who intends to construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a commercial or industrial building
or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert, or
replace any electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing system, the installation
of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to be done, shall
first make application to the building official and obtain the required permit.
   (H)   Section 105.3.2 “Time limitation of application” is hereby amended to
read as follows: An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be
subject to the time limitations set forth in §
157.565.
   (I)   Section 105.4 “Validity of permit” is hereby amended by deleting the
last sentence and replacing it with the following: The building official shall
post notice when a structure is in violation of this code or of any other
ordinances, in accordance with §
154.008, and may seek to prevent occupancy or use of the structure pursuant to
§
154.010.
   (J)   Section 107.2.6.1 “Design flood elevations” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (K)   Section 107.3.1 “Approval of construction documents” is hereby amended
to read as follows: Approval of construction documents. When the building
official issues a permit, the construction documents shall be approved, in
writing or by stamp, as approved”. One set of construction documents so
reviewed shall be retained by the building official. The last set shall be
returned to the applicant, shall be kept at the site of work and shall be open
to inspection by the building official or a duly authorized representative.
   (L)   Section 109.4 “Work commencing before permit issuance” is hereby
amended to read as follows: Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person
who commences any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical,
or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to
the penalties prescribed in §§
154.010 and
154.999, in addition to any required permit fees.
   (M)   Section 109.6 “Refunds” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (N)   Section 110.3.3 “Lowest floor elevation” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (O)   Section 111.1 “Certificate of occupancy” is hereby deleted in its
entirety and the following is substituted in lieu thereof: No building or
structure shall be used or occupied, and no change in the existing occupancy of
a commercial or industrial structure or portion thereof shall be made until the
Community Development Administrator has issued a certificate of occupancy, as
provided in §
157.585. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as an
approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other county
ordinances.
   (P)   Section 112 “Service utilities” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (Q)   Section 113 “Board of Appeals” is hereby deleted in its entirety and
the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: The Board of Appeals
shall be the same as the Board of Appeals under the 2018 International
Mechanical Code and shall follow the procedures and regulations under § 109 of
that Code.
   (R)   Section 114.2 “Notice of violation” is hereby amended to read as
follows: As provided in §
154.005 and
Chapter 34, the building official is authorized to serve a notice of violation
or order on the person responsible for the erection, construction, alteration,
extension, repair, moving, removal, demolition, or occupancy of a building or
structure in violation of the provisions of this code, or in violation of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code. Such order
shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action or condition and the
abatement of the violation.
   (S)   Section 114.3 “Prosecution of violation” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (T)   Section 114.4 “Violation penalties” is hereby amended to read as
follows: Any person who violates a provision of this code or fails to comply
with any of the requirements thereof or who erects, constructs, alters, or
repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the building official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to the penalties
prescribed in §§
154.010 and
154.999 in addition to any required permit fees.
   (U)   Section 115 “Stop work order” is hereby deleted in its entirety and
the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: Whenever the Community
Development Administrator finds any work regulated by this code being performed
in a manner that is contrary to the provisions of this code, the Administrator
is authorized to issue a stop work order in accordance with §
154.010(C).
   (V)   Section 802.4 “Applicability” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (W)   Section 1107.7.5 “Design flood elevation” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (X)   Section 1202.4.4 “Exception no. 5” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (Y)   Section 1402.6 “Flood resistance” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (Z)   Section 1402.7 “Flood resistance for high-velocity wave action areas
is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (AA)   Section 1603.1.7 “Flood design data” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (BB)   Section 1612 “Flood loads” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (CC)    Section 1804.5 “Grading and fill in flood hazard areas” is hereby
deleted in its entirety.
   (DD)   Section 1805.1.2.1 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (EE)    Chapter 27 “Electrical” is hereby deleted in its entirety and the
following language is substituted in lieu thereof: The NFPA 70, National
Electrical Code, 2017 Edition shall be followed for all design and installation
of electrical systems, alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment,
appliances, fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances thereto.
   (FF)   Chapter 29 “Plumbing systems” is hereby deleted in its entirety and
the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: The current State of
Illinois Plumbing Code shall be followed for all design and installation of
plumbing systems, including sanitary and storm drainage, sanitary facilities,
water supply, and stormwater and sewage disposal in buildings.
   (GG)   Section 3001.3 “Referenced standards” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (HH)   Section 3102.7 “Engineering design” is hereby amended to read as
follows: The structure shall be designed and constructed to sustain dead loads;
loads due to tension or inflation; live loads including wind, snow or flood and
seismic loads and in accordance with Chapter 16. The design and construction
for flood loads shall meet the requirements of §
152.07.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-2(b)) (Res. LU-18-04, passed 4-25-2018; Res. LU-21-06,
passed 7-28-2021)
RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS
§ 154.040 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The 2018 International Residential Code is hereby adopted by reference. In
addition, the following Appendices to the 2018 International Residential Code
are also adopted by reference:
   (A)   Appendix F - Radon control methods;
   (B)   Appendix H - Patio covers; and
   (C)   Appendix K - Sound transmission.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-3(a)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.041 AMENDMENTS TO RESIDENTIAL CODE.
    The 2018 International Residential Building Code as adopted herein by
reference is amended as provided in this section.
   (A)   Section R101.1 “Title” is hereby amended to read as follows: These
provisions shall be known as the Residential Code for one- and two-family
dwellings of the county, and shall be cited as such and will be referred to
herein as “this code”.
   (B)   Section R103.1 “Creation of enforcement agency” is hereby amended to
read as follows: The Community Development Department shall be the Department
of Building Safety and the person in charge thereof shall be the Community
Development Administrator.
   (C)   Section R104.8 “Liability” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (D)   Section R104.10.1 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (E)   Section R105.3.1.1 “Determination of substantially improved or
substantially damaged existing buildings in flood hazard areas” is hereby
deleted in its entirety.
   (F)   Section R105.3.2 “Time limitation of application” is hereby amended to
read as follows: Time limitation of application. An application for a permit
for any proposed work shall be subject to the time limitations set forth in §
157.565.
   (G)   Section R105.4 “Validity of permit” is hereby amended by deleting the
last sentence and substituting the following in lieu thereof: The building
official shall post notice when a structure is in violation of this code or of
any other ordinances, in accordance with §
154.008, and may seek to prevent occupancy or use of the structure pursuant to
§§
154.010 and
154.999.
   (H)   Section R106.1 “Submittal documents” is hereby amended to read as
follows: The construction documents shall be drawn to scale and show the size
and depth of the footing/foundation, the dimensioned floor plan, the plan
elevations, the electrical plan, and the plumbing plan.
   (I)   Section R106.1.4 “Information for construction in flood hazard areas”
is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (J)   Section R106.3.1 “Approval of construction documents” is hereby
amended to read as follows: Approval of construction documents shall be
approved in writing or by a stamp which states “Approved”. One set of
construction documents so reviewed shall be retained by the building official.
The last set of construction documents shall be returned to the applicant,
shall be kept at the site of work, and shall be open to inspection by the
building official or his or her authorized representative.
   (K)   Section R108.5 “Refunds” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (L)   Section R108.6 “Work commencing before permit issuance” is hereby
amended to read as follows: Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person
who commences any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical,
or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to
the penalties prescribed in §§
154.010 and
154.999, in addition to any required permit fees.
   (M)   Section R109.1.3 “Floodplain inspections” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (N)   Section R109.1.6.1 “Elevation documentation” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (O)   Section R110 “Certificate of occupancy” is hereby deleted in its
entirety and the following language is substituted in lieu thereof:
      (1)   No building or structure shall be used or occupied, and no change
in the existing occupancy classification (which could affect the fire hazard
requirements) of a building or structure or portion thereof shall be made until
the Community Development Administrator has issued a certificate of occupancy,
as provided in §
157.585; and
      (2)   Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as an
approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other county
ordinances.
   (P)   Section R111 “Service utilities” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (Q)   Section R112 “Board of Appeals” is hereby deleted in its entirety and
the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: The Board of Appeals
shall be the same as the Board of Appeals under the 2018 International
Mechanical Code and shall follow the procedures and regulations under § 109 of
that Code.
   (R)   Section R113.2 “Notice of violation” is hereby amended to read as
follows: In accordance with §§
154.008,
154.010, and
154.999, the building official is authorized to serve a notice of violation or
order on the person responsible for the erection, construction, alteration,
extension, repair, moving, removal, or demolition of a building or structure in
violation of the provisions of this code, or in violation of a detail statement
or a plan approved thereunder, or in violation of a permit issued under the
provisions of this code. Such order shall direct the discontinuance of the
illegal action or condition and the abatement of the violation.
   (S)   Section R113.3 “Prosecution of violation” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (T)   Section R113.4 “Violation penalties” is hereby amended to read as
follows: Any person who violates a provision of this code or fails to comply
with any of the requirements hereof or who erects, constructs, alters, or
repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the building official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to the penalties as
prescribed by §§
154.005 and
154.999.
   (U)   Section R114 “Stop work order” is hereby deleted in its entirety and
the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: Whenever the Community
Development Administrator finds any work regulated by this code being performed
in a manner that is contrary to the provisions of this code, the Administrator
is authorized to issue a stop work order in accordance with §§
154.010 and
154.999.
   (V)   Section R301.1 “Application” is hereby amended to read as follows:
Buildings and structures, and all parts thereof, shall be constructed to safely
support all loads, including dead loads, live loads, roof loads, flood loads,
snow loads, wind loads, and seismic loads as prescribed by this code. The
design and construction for flood loads shall meet the requirements of §
152.07. The construction of buildings and structures in accordance with this
code shall result in a system that provides a complete load path capable of
transferring all loads from their point of origin through the load-resisting
elements to the foundation.
   (W)   Table R301.2(1) is hereby amended by deleting paragraph “g” relating
to the county’s National Flood Insurance Program.
   (X)   Section R301.2.4 “Floodplain construction” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (Y)   Section R302.1 “Exterior walls” Exception #2 is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (Z)    Table R302.1(1) “Exterior walls” is hereby amended to read as
follows:
   TABLE R302.1(1)
   EXTERIOR WALLS IN RELATION TO PROPERTY LINES.
   (AA)   Table R302.6 Dwelling/garage/accessory structure separation is hereby
amended to read as follows:
   TABLE R302.6
   ATTACHED AND DETACHED GARAGES/ACCESSORY STRUCTURES LOCATED LESS THAN 5' FROM
DWELLING UNIT ON THE SAME LOT.
   (BB)   Section 307.7 “Under-stair protect” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (CC)   Section R309.3 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (DD)   Section R313.2 “One- and two-family dwellings automatic fire systems”
is hereby amended to read as follows: An automatic residential fire sprinkler
system shall not be required to be installed in one- and two-family dwellings.
If one is installed, however, it shall comply with the relevant code sections
of the International Residential Code.
   (EE)   Section R322 “Flood resistant construction” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (FF)   Section R408.7 “Flood resistance” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (GG)   Section R302.13 “Fire protection of floors” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (HH)   Section M1301.1.1 “Flood-resistant installation” is hereby deleted in
its entirety.
   (II)   Section M1401.5 “Flood hazard” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (JJ)   Section M1601.4.10 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (KK)   Section M1701.2 “Opening location” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (LL)   Section M2001.4 “Flood resistant installation” is hereby deleted in
its entirety.
   (MM)   Section M2201.6 “Flood resistant installation” is hereby deleted in
its entirety.
   (NN)   Section G2404.7 “Flood hazard” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (OO)   Section P2501.2 “Application” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (PP)   Chapter 25 “Plumbing administration” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (QQ)   Chapter 26 “General plumbing requirements” is hereby deleted in its
entirety and the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: The current
State of Illinois Plumbing Code shall be followed for all design and
installation of plumbing systems, including sanitary and storm drainage,
sanitary facilities, water supply, and stormwater and sewage disposal in
buildings.
   (RR)   Chapter 27 “Plumbing fixtures”, Chapter 28 “Water heaters”, Chapter
29 “Water supply and distribution” are hereby deleted in their entirety.
   (SS)   Chapter 30 “Sanitary drainage” is hereby deleted in its entirety and
the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: Chapter 94 of the County
Code shall be followed for all design and installation of sanitary drainage
systems.
   (TT)   Chapter 31 “Vents” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (UU)   Chapter 32 “Traps” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (VV)   Chapters 33 through 43. Chapter 33 “Storm drainage”, Chapter 34
“General requirements”, Chapter 35 “Electrical definitions”, Chapter 36
“Services”, Chapter 37 “Branch circuit and feeder requirements”, Chapter 38
“Wiring methods”, Chapter 39 “Power and lighting distribution”, Chapter 40
“Devices and luminaires”, Chapter 41 “Appliance installation”, Chapter 42
“Swimming pools” and Chapter 43 “Remote-control, signaling, and power-limited
circuits” are hereby deleted in their entireties and the following language is
substituted in lieu thereof:
      (1)   Chapter 33, Storm drainage. Chapter 151, county’s erosion,
sediment, and stormwater control chapter shall be followed for all design,
installation, and maintenance of stormwater control measures;
      (2)   Chapter 34, Electrical requirements. The NFPA 70, National
Electrical Code, 2017 Edition shall be followed for all design and installation
of electrical systems, alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment,
appliances, fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances thereto.
   (WW)   Chapter 35. The following new chapter, Chapter 35 is hereby added:
Chapter 35, Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Manufactured homes built on or after June 15, 1976 shall comply
with the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24
C.F.R. Pt. 3280 which are enforced by the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development through 24 C.F.R. Pt. 3282.
      (2)   For manufactured homes built prior to June 15, 1976, a label
certifying compliance with the Standard for Mobile Homes, NFPA 501, ANSI 119.1,
in effect at the time of manufacture is required.
      (3)   For purposes of this chapter, MANUFACTURED HOME shall mean: A
structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode,
is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when
erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent
chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except
that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of
this division (WW)(3) except the size requirements and with respect to which
the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary
and complies with the standards established under this chapter; and except that
such term shall not include any self-propelled recreational vehicle (42 U.S.C.
§ 5402(6)).
      (4)   Violations of these standards shall be enforced pursuant to 24
C.F.R. Pt. 3282.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-3(b)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 154.055 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The 2018 International Property Maintenance Code is hereby adopted by
reference.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-4(a)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.056 AMENDMENTS TO PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
    The 2018 International Property Maintenance Code as adopted herein by
reference is amended as provided in this section.
   (A)   Section 101.1 is hereby amended to read as follows: 101.1 Title. These
regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance Code of the county,
hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
   (B)   Section 103.1 is hereby amended to read as follows: 103.1 General. The
county’s Community Development Department and County Health Department shall be
the Departments of Property Maintenance and the Community Development
Administrator and the County Director of Health shall be in charge thereof.
   (C)   Section 103.2 “Appointment” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (D)   Section 103.4 “Liability” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (E)   Section 103.5 “Fees” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (F)   Section 106.3 “Prosecution of violation” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (G)   Section 106.4 “Violation penalties” is hereby amended to read as
follows: Any person who shall violate a provision of this code, or fail to
comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall be subject to
the penalties as set forth in §§
154.010 and
154.999.
   (H)   Section 106.5 “Abatement of violation” is hereby amended by adding the
following to the last sentence: In accordance with §§
154.010 and
154.999.
   (I)   Section 107.2 “Form” is hereby amended to read as follows: Such notice
prescribed in § 107.1 shall be in accordance with all of the following:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued;
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code;
      (5)   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal; and
      (6)   Include a statement of the right to file a lien.
   (J)   Section 107.5 “Penalties” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (K)   Section 107.6 “Transfer of ownership” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (L)   Section 108.2.1 “Authority to disconnect service utilities” is hereby
deleted in its entirety.
   (M)   108.3 “Notice” is hereby amended to read as follows: Whenever the code
official has condemned a structure or equipment under the provisions of this
section, notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the
structure affected by such notice and served on the owner or the person or
persons responsible for the structure or equipment in accordance with § 107.3.
If the notice pertains to equipment, it shall also be placed on the condemned
equipment. The notice shall be in the form prescribed in § 107.2. All notices
shall also comply with §
154.008.
   (O)   108.5 “Prohibited occupancy” is hereby amended to read as follows: Any
occupied structure condemned and placarded by the code official shall be
vacated as ordered by the code official. Any person who shall occupy a
placarded premises or shall operate placarded equipment, and any owner or any
person responsible for the premises who shall let anyone occupy a placarded
premises or operate placarded equipment shall be subject to penalties as
prescribed by §§
154.010 and
154.999.
   (P)   Section 109.3 “Closing streets” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (Q)    Section 109.5 “Costs of emergency repairs” is hereby amended to read
as follows: Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work shall be paid
by the county. The State’s Attorney may institute appropriate action against
the owner of the premises where the unsafe structure is or was located for the
recovery of such costs.
   (R)   Section 110.3 “Failure to comply” is hereby deleted in its entirety
and the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: If the owner of a
premises fails to comply with a demolition order within the time prescribed,
which shall not be less than 15 days’ notice, the code official shall request
the State’s Attorney’s Office to apply to the circuit court for an order of
demolition pursuant to § 5-1121 of the Counties Code (55 ILCS 5/5-1121).
   (S)   Section 111 “Means of appeal” is hereby deleted in its entirety, and
the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: The Board of Appeals
shall be the same as the Board of Appeals under the 2018 International
Mechanical Code and shall follow the procedures and regulations under § 109 of
that Code.
   (T)   Section 202, “General definitions”. The definitions of “strict
liability offense”, “person”, and “inoperable vehicle” are hereby deleted. The
following definitions are hereby added.
      (1)   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle from which, for a
period of at least seven days, the engine, wheels, or other parts have been
removed, or on which the engine, wheels, or other parts have been altered,
damaged, or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven
under its own motor power.
      (2)   LITTER. Any discarded, used or unconsumed substance or waste.
LITTER may include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris,
rubbish, glass, metal, plastic, or paper containers or other packaging
material, motor vehicle parts, furniture, appliances, oil, carcass of a dead
animal, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind, any object likely to
injure any person, or anything else of any unsightly or unsanitary nature,
which exists upon any private property within the jurisdiction of the county.
This definition specifically excludes used or antiquated farm equipment.
      (3)   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartners, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, or any other
legal entity, or their legal representative, agent, or assigns.
   (U)   Section 302.8 “Motor vehicles” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (V)   Section 302.4 “Weeds” is hereby amended as follows: Refer to §
91.47.
   (W)   Section 304.14 “Insect screens” is hereby amended to read as follows:
During the period from April 1 to November 1, every door, window, and other
outside opening required for ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation
areas, food service areas, or any area where products to be included or
utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged,
or stored shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of not less
than 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm), and every screen door used for
insect control shall have a self-closing device in good working condition.
Exception: Screens shall not be required where other approved means, such as
air curtains or insect repellant fans are employed.
   (X)   Section 602.3 “Heat supply” is hereby amended to read as follows:
      (1)   Every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases, or lets
one or more dwelling units or sleeping units, either expressed or implied, to
furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply heat during the period from
October 1 to April 1 to maintain of not less than 68°F (20°C) in all habitable
rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms.
      (2)   Exceptions:
         (a)   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required, provided that the heating system is operating at its full
capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall be as
indicated in the State of Illinois Plumbing Code; and
         (b)   In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-
1°C) a minimum of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-4(b)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 154.070 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The NFPA 70, National Electrical Code 2017 Edition, is hereby adopted by
reference.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-5(a)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 154.085 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The current State of Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code Pt. 890, is
hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-6(a)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
MECHANICAL CODE
§ 154.100 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The 2018 International Mechanical Code is hereby adopted by reference. In
addition, the following Appendices to the 2018 International Mechanical Code
are also adopted by reference: Appendix A - Combustion Air Openings and Chimney
Connector Pass-Through.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-7(a)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.101 AMENDMENTS TO MECHANICAL CODE.
    The 2018 International Mechanical Code, as adopted herein by reference, is
amended as provided in this section.
   (A)   Section 101.1 is hereby amended to read as follows: 101.1 Title. These
regulations shall be known as the Mechanical Code of the county, hereinafter
referred to as “this code”.
   (B)   Section 103.1 is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following
language is substituted in lieu thereof: Section 103.1. General. The Community
Development Department shall be the Department of Mechanical Inspection and the
person in charge thereof shall be the Community Development Administrator.
   (C)   Section 103. 2 “Appointment” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (D)   Section 103.4 “Liability” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (E)   Section 106.3.3 “Time limitation of application” is hereby amended to
read as follows: 106.3.3 Time limitation of application. An application for a
permit for any proposed work shall be subject to the time limitations set forth
in §
157.565.
   (F)   Section 106.4.2 “Validity of permit” is hereby amended by adding: The
building official shall post notice when violations of this code or of any
other ordinances, in accordance with §
154.008, and may seek to prevent occupancy or use of the structure pursuant to
§§
154.010 and
154.999.
   (G)   Section 106.5 “Fees” is hereby amended to read as follows: 106.5.
Fees. A permit shall not be issued until the fees prescribed in Appendix “A” of
this chapter have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released
until the additional fee, if any, due to an increase of the mechanical system,
has been paid.
   (H)   Section 106.5.1 “Work commencing before permit issuance” is hereby
amended as follows: 106.5.1 Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person
who commences work on a mechanical system before obtaining the necessary
permits shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by §§
154.010 and
154.999, in addition to the required permit fees.
   (I)   Section 106.5.2 “Fee schedule” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (J)   Section 106.5.3 “Fee refunds” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (K)   Section 108.2 “Notice of violation” is hereby amended to read as
follows: 108.2. notice of violation. In accordance with §§
154.008, the code official shall serve a notice of violation or order to the
person responsible for the erection, installation, alteration, extension,
repair, removal, or demolition of mechanical work in violation of the
provisions of this code, or in violation of a detail statement or the approved
construction documents thereunder, or in violation of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code. Such order shall direct the
discontinuance of the illegal action or condition and the abatement of the
violation.
   (L)   Section 108.3 “Prosecution of violation” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (M)   Section 108.4 “Violation penalties” is hereby amended to read as
follows: 108.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of
this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
shall erect, install, alter, or repair mechanical work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code shall be subject
to penalties set forth in §§
154.010 and
154.999.
   (N)   Section 108.5 “Stop work orders” is hereby deleted in its entirety and
the following language is amended to read as follows: 108.5 Stop work orders.
Whenever the Community Development Administrator finds any work regulated by
this code being performed in a manner that is contrary to the provisions of
this code, the Administrator is authorized to issue a stop work order in
accordance with §§
154.010 and
154.999.
   (O)   Section 108.6 “Abatement of violation” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (P)   Section 108.7.1 “Authority to condemn mechanical system” is hereby
amended to read as follows: 108.7. Authority to condemn mechanical system.
Whenever the code official determines that any mechanical system, or portion
thereof, regulated by this code has become hazardous to life, health, property,
or has become unsanitary, the code official shall order in writing that such
system either be removed or restored to a safe condition. A time limit for
compliance with such order shall be specified in the written notice. A person
shall not use or maintain a defective mechanical system after receiving such
notice.
   (Q)   Section 108.7.2 “Authority to order disconnection of energy sources”
is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (R)   Section 108.7.3 “Connection after order to disconnect” is hereby
deleted in its entirety.
   (S)   Section 109 “Means of appeal” is hereby amended by adding the
following section: 109.4.2. Stays of enforcement. Appeals of notices and orders
shall stay the enforcement of notice and order until the appeal is heard by the
Appeals Board unless there is an imminent danger to the life, health, or safety
of the public.
   (T)   Section 109.6.1 is hereby amended to read as follows: 109.6.1.
Resolution. The decision of the Appeals Board shall be in writing and shall be
furnished to the appellant and to the code official.
   (U)   Section 301.16 “Flood hazard” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (V)    Section 301.16.1 “Coastal high-hazard areas and Coastal A zones” is
hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (W)   Section 401.4.4 “Intake opening location” (#4 relating to flood hazard
areas) is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (X)   Section 602.4 “Flood hazard” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (Y)    Section 603.13 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (Z)   Section 1206.9.1 “Flood hazard” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (AA)   Section 1210.8.6 “Flood hazard” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (BB)   Section 1305.2.1 “Flood hazard” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-7(b)) (Res. 21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
FIRE CODE
§ 154.115 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The 2018 International Fire Code is hereby adopted by reference. No
appendices are adopted.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-8(a)) (Res. 21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.116 AMENDMENTS.
    The 2018 International Fire Code, as adopted herein by reference, is
amended as provided in this section.
   (A)   Section 101.1 is hereby amended to read as follows: 101.1. Title.
These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of the county, hereinafter
referred to as “this code”.
   (B)   Section 103.1 is hereby amended to read as follows: 103.1. General.
The Community Development Department shall be the Department of Fire
Prevention. The function of the Department shall be the implementation,
administration, and enforcement of the provisions of this code, and the person
in charge thereof shall be the Community Development Administrator.
   (C)   Section 103.2 “Appointment” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (D)   Section 103.4 “Liability” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (E)   Section 103.4.1 “Legal defense” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (F)   Section 104.6.3 “Fire records” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (G)   Section 104.10 “Fire investigations”. The second sentence of § 104.10
is hereby amended to read as follows: Information that could be related to
trade secrets or processes shall not be made part of the public record except
as directed by a court of law or as required by the state’s Freedom of
Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
   (H)   Section 104.10.1 “Assistance from other agencies” is hereby deleted in
its entirety.
   (I)   Section 104.11 “Authority at fires and other emergencies” is hereby
deleted in its entirety.
   (J)   Section 104.11.1 “Barricades” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (K)   Section 105.2.3 “Time limitation of application” is hereby amended to
read as follows:
105.2.3 Time limitation of application. An application for a permit for any
proposed work shall be subject to the time limitations set forth in §
157.565.
   (L)   Section 105.3.8 “Validity of permit” is hereby amended by adding the
following: The building official shall post notice when a violation of this
code or of any other ordinances, in accordance with §
154.008, and may seek to prevent occupancy or use of the structure pursuant to
§§
154.010 and
154.999.
   (M)   Section 106.5 “Refunds” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (N)   Section 109 “Board of Appeals” is hereby deleted in its entirety and
the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: 109 Board of Appeals.
The Board of Appeals shall be the same as the Board of Appeals under the 2018
International Mechanical Code and shall follow the procedures and regulations
in § 109 of that Code.
   (O)   Section 110.3 “Notice of violation” is hereby amended to read as
follows: When the fire code official finds a building, premises, vehicle,
storage facility or outdoor area that is in violation of this code, the fire
code official is authorized to prepare a written notice of violation per §§
154.008 and
154.999 or §
34.20 describing the conditions deemed unsafe, and when compliance is not
immediate, specifying a time for re-inspection.
   (P)   Section 110.3.1 “Service” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (Q)   Section 110.3.2 “Compliance with orders and notices” is hereby deleted
in its entirety.
   (R)   Section 110.3.3 “Prosecution of violations” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (S)   Section 110.3.4 “Unauthorized tampering” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (T)   Section 109.4 “Violation penalties” is hereby amended to read as
follows: 109.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of
this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
shall erect, install, alter, or repair mechanical work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code shall be subject
to penalties set forth in §§
154.010 and
154.999.
   (U)   Section 110.4.1 “Abatement of violation” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (V)   Section 111.3 “Summary abatement” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (W)   Section 112 “Stop work order” is hereby deleted in its entirety and
the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: 112 Stop work order.
Whenever the Community Development Administrator finds any work regulated by
this code being performed in a manner that is contrary to the provisions of
this code, the Administrator is authorized to issue a stop work order in
accordance with §
154.010(C).
   (X)   Section 113 “Service utilities” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (Y)   Section 106.3 “Work commencing before permit issuance” is hereby
amended to read as follows: 106.3 Work commencing before permit issuance. Any
person who commences any work, activity, or operation regulated by this code
before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to penalties as
prescribed by §§
154.010 and
154.999.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-8(b)) (Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
§ 154.130 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The Illinois Energy Conservation Code is hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-9(a)) (Res. LU-18-04, passed 4-25-2018; Res. LU-21-06,
passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.131 AMENDMENTS.
    The Illinois Energy Conservation Code as adopted herein by reference is
amended as provided in this section. Amendments in this section shall apply to
both the commercial provisions and residential provisions of the Illinois
Energy Conservation Code.
   (A)    Section C101.1 “Title” is hereby amended to read as follows: C101.1
Title. These regulations shall be known as the Energy Conservation Code of the
county, hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
   (B)   Section 103.3.1 “Approval of construction documents” is hereby amended
to read as follows:
      103.3.1 Approval of construction documents. When the code official issues
a permit where construction documents are required, the construction documents
shall be endorsed in writing and stamped “approved”. Such approved construction
documents shall not be changed, modified, or altered without authorization from
the code official. Work shall be done in accordance with the approved
construction documents.
   (C)   Section 104.1 “Fees” is hereby amended to read as follows: A permit
shall not be issued until the fees as prescribed in §
154.011 have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until
the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
   (D)   Section 104.3 “Work commencing before permit issuance” is hereby
amended to read as follows: 104.3 Work commencing before permit issuance. Any
person who commences any work before obtaining the necessary permits shall be
subject to penalties prescribed by §§
154.010 and
154.999, in addition to any required permit fees.
   (E)   Section 104.5 “Refunds” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (F)   Section 108.1 “Authority” is hereby amended by adding to the end of
the sentence, “in accordance with §
154.010(C).”
   (G)   Section 108.3 “Emergencies” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (H)   Section 108.4 “Failure to comply” is hereby amended to read as
follows: 108.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject
to penalties as prescribed by §§
154.010 and
154.999.
   (I)   Section C109 “Board of Appeals” is hereby deleted in its entirety and
the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: C109.1 Board of Appeals.
The Board of Appeals shall be the same as the Board of Appeals under the 2018
International Mechanical Code and shall follow the procedures and regulations
under § 109 of the Code.
(Res. LU-18-04, passed 4-25-2018; Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
NFPA 101 LIFE SAFETY CODE
§ 154.135 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The NFPA 101 Life Safety Code 2018 is hereby adopted by reference.
(Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE
§ 154.140 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 2018 International Existing Building Code is hereby adopted by
reference. No appendices are adopted.
(Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
§ 154.141 AMENDMENTS.
   The 2018 International Existing Building Code, as adopted herein by
reference, is amended as provided in this section.
   (A)   Section 101.1 “Title” is hereby amended to read as follows: These
regulations shall be known as the Existing Building Code of Tazewell County,
hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
   (B)   Section 101.2 “Scope” is hereby amended to read as follows: For any
nonresidential building or structure which is not covered under the
International Residential Code and for any building or structure which is
located in a regulatory floodplain as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency’s National Flood Insurance Program Flood Insurance Rate Map,
the provisions of this code shall apply to any repairs, change of occupancy,
alterations, additions or other improvements of a building or structure, the
cost of which eguals or exceeds fifty (50) percent of the market value before
the repairs, change of occupancy, alterations, additions or improvements are
started. Repairs, alterations, additions and other improvements complying with
the provision of the International Building Code, International Mechanical Code
State of Illinois Plumbing Code and International Residential Code as
applicable shall be considered in compliance with the provisions of this Code.
   (C)   Section 101.3 “Intent” is hereby amended to read as follows: The
purpose of this code is to establish the minimum requirements to safeguard the
public health, safety, and welfare insofar as they are affected by the repair,
alteration, addition or other improvement of a building or structure.
   (D)   Section 103.1 “Creation of enforcement agency” is hereby amended to
read as follows: The Department of Community Development shall be the
Department of Building Safety, and the person in charge thereof shall be the
Community Development Administrator.
   (E)   Section 104.2 “Applications and permits” is hereby amended to read as
follows: The code official shall receive applications, review construction
documents and issue permits for the repair, alteration, addition, demolition,
change of occupancy, and relocation of buildings; or other improvement of
buildings and structures; inspect the premises for which such permits have been
issued; and enforce compliance with the provisions of this code.
   (F)   Section 104.2.1 “Determination of substantially improved or
substantially damaged existing buildings and structures in the flood hazard
areas” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (G)   Section 104.8 “Liability” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (H)   Section 104.10.1 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (I)   Section 105.1 “Required” is hereby amended to read as follows: Any
owner or authorized agent who intends to repair, add to, alter, relocate,
demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or make any improvement to a
building or structure which is regulated by this code, or repair, install, add,
alter, remove, convert, or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing
system, the installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any
such work to be done, shall first make application to the code official and
obtain the required permit.
   (J)   Section 105.3.2 “Time limitation of application” is hereby amended to
read as follows: An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be
subject to the time limitations set forth in §
157.565.
   (K)   Section 105.4 “Validity of permit” is hereby amended by deleting the
last sentence and replacing it with the following: The building official shall
post notice when a structure is in violation of this code or of any other
ordinances, in accordance with §
154.008, and may seek to prevent occupancy or use of the structure pursuant to
§
157.585.
   (L)   Section 106.3.1 “Approval of construction documents” is hereby amended
to read as follows:
----------missing text----------.
   (M)   Section 105.4 “Validity of permit” is hereby amended by deleting the
last sentence and replacing it with the following: The building official shall
post notice when a structure is in violation of this code or of any other
ordinances, in accordance with §
154.005, and may seek to prevent occupancy or use of the structure pursuant to
§
157.585.
   (N)   Section 108.4 “Work commencing before permit issuance” is hereby
amended to read as follows: Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person
who commences any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical,
or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to
the penalties prescribed in §§
154.010 and
154.999, in addition to any required permit fees.
   (O)   Section 108.6 “Refunds” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (P)   Section 109.3.3 “Lowest Floor Elevation” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (Q)   Section 110.1 “Certificate of occupancy” is hereby deleted in its
entirety and the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: As provided
in §
154.008 and
Chapter 34, the building official is authorized to serve a notice of violation
or order on the person responsible for the altered area of a building and no
relocated building shall be used or occupied, and no change in the existing
occupancy classification of a building or structure or portion thereof shall be
made until the Community Development Administrator has issued a certificate of
occupancy, as provided in §
157.585. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as an
approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other county
ordinances.
   (R)   Section 111 “Service utility” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (S)   Section 112 “Board of Appeals” is hereby deleted in its entirety and
the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: The Board of Appeals
shall be the same as the Board of Appeals under the 2018 International
Mechanical Code and shall follow the procedures and regulations under Section
109 of that code.
   (T)   Section 113.2 “Notice of violation” is hereby amended to read as
follows: As provided in §
154.008 and
Chapter 34, the building official is authorized to serve a notice of violation
or order on the person responsible for the repair, alteration, extension,
addition, moving, removal, demolition, or change in occupancy of a building or
structure in violation of the provisions of this code, or in violation of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code. Such order
shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action or condition and the
abatement of the violation.
   (U)   Section 113.3 “Prosecution of violation” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (V)   Section 113.4 “Violation penalties” is hereby amended to read as
follows: Any person who violates a provision of this code or fails to comply
with any of the requirements thereof or who repairs or alters or changes the
occupancy (which could affect the fire hazard requirements) of a building or
structure in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of
the building official, or of a permit or certificate issued under the
provisions of this code, shall be subject to the penalties prescribed in §§
154.010 and
154.999 in addition to any required permit fees.
   (W)   Section 114 “Stop work order” is hereby deleted in its entirety and
the following language is substituted in lieu thereof: Whenever the Community
Development Administrator finds any work regulated by this code being performed
in a manner that is contrary to the provisions of this code, the Administrator
is authorized to issue a stop work order in accordance with §
154.010(C).
   (X)   Section 115 “Unsafe buildings and equipment, is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (Y)   Section 116 “Emergency measures” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (Z)   Section 117 “Demolition” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (AA)   Section 202 “General definitions” the definitions of “Substantial
Damage” and “Substantial Improvement” and “Flood Hazard Area” are hereby
deleted in their entireties.
   (BB)   Section 401.3 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (CC)   Section 405.2.5 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (DD)   Section 408 “Plumbing” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (EE)   Section 502.3 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (FF)   Section 503.2 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (GG)   Section 507.3 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (HH)   Section 701.3 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (II)   Section 1103.3 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (JJ)   Section 1201.4 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (KK)   Section 1301.3.3 “Compliance with flood hazard provision” is hereby
deleted in its entirety.
   (LL)   Section 1402.6 “Flood hazard areas” is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
(Res. LU-21-06, passed 7-28-2021)
INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE
§ 154.145 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 2018 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code is hereby adopted by
reference. No appendices are adopted.
(Res. LU-22-08, passed 8-31-2022)
§ 154.146 AMENDMENTS.
   The 2018 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code as adopted herein by
reference, is amended as provided in this section.
   (A)   Section 101.1 “Title” is hereby amended to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the International Pool
and Spa Code of Tazewell County, hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   (B)   Section 103.1 “Creation of enforcement agency” is hereby amended to
read as follows:
      Section 103.1. Creation of enforcement agency is hereby amended to read
as follows: The Department of Community Development shall be the Department of
Building Safety, and the person in charge thereof shall be the Community
Development Administrator.
   (C)   Section 103.2 “Appointment.” “Appointment” is here by deleted in its
entirety.
   (D)   Section 103.4 “Liability.” “Liability” is here by deleted in its
entirety.
   (E)   Section 103.4.1 “Legal Defenses.” “Legal defenses” is hereby deleted
in its entirety.
   (F)   Section 105.3 “Construction documents.” “Construction documents” shall
be deleted in its entirety.
   (G)   Section 105.4 “Time limitation of application.” “Time limitations” is
hereby amended to read as follows:
      An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be subject to the
time limitation set forth in §
157.565.
   (H)   Section 105.5.3 “Expiration.” “Expiration” shall be deleted in its
entirety.
   (I)   Section 105.5.4 “Extension.” “Extension” shall be deleted in its
entirety.
   (J)   Section 105.6 “Fees.” “Fees” shall be deleted in its entirety along
with all subsequent 105.6 sections.
   (K)   Section 106.2 “Preliminary Inspection.” “Preliminary Inspection” shall
be deleted in its entirety.
   (L)   Section 107.2 “Notice of Violation.” “Notice of Violation” is hereby
amended to read as follows:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued;
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code;
      (5)   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal; and
      (6)   Include a statement of the right to file a lien.
   (M)   Section 107.3 “Prosecution of Violation.” “Prosecution of violation”
is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (N)   Section 106.4 “Violation penalties” is hereby amended to read as
follows: Any person who shall violate a provision of this code, or fail to
comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall be subject to
the penalties as set forth in §§
154.010.
   (O)   Section 106.5 “Abatement of violation” is hereby amended by adding the
following to the last sentence: In accordance with §§
154.010.
   (P)   Section 202 “Definitions.” “Onground Storable Pool.” All subsequent
reference to Onground Storable Pools, storable shall be stricken for clarity.
   (Q)   Section 304 “Flood Hazard.” “Flood Hazard” shall be deleted in its
entirety.
(Res. LU-22-08, passed 8-31-2022)
DISPLAY OF ADDRESS
§ 154.150 PURPOSE.
   The county recognizes the importance of improved properties displaying their
county-assigned address number for various services, including, but not limited
to, delivering accurate emergency assistance to the public. Consistent with
this recognition, the County Board hereby adopts this subchapter regulating 911
address number display.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 5-1)
§ 154.151 911 ADDRESS NUMBER SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Owners of improved property, as defined under §
157.005, within the unincorporated areas of the county shall post that
property’s address number(s), as assigned by the county, on a principal
building or structure, as defined under §
157.005, at or near the main entrance of said principal building or structure,
but not further than 80 feet from the centerline of any right-of-way to which
the structure faces. Whenever possible, address numbers shall be posted upon
planes parallel to said right-of-way, between four feet and nine feet above the
first floor (above grade) level.
   (B)   In the event a property owner cannot meet the requirements in division
(A) above, owners shall post the property’s address numbers on a sign not
further than 80 feet from the centerline of the right-of- way to which the
principal building or structure faces. The size of the sign shall not exceed
the area of address numbers by more than four inches around the perimeter of
said numbers. These postings shall not otherwise be subject to county sign
regulations or any village or city regulation to the extent possible under
state law.
   (C)   Prior to the placement of any sign support used to meet the
requirements under division (B) above, a property owner shall have the proposed
location of the post inspected and marked by Julie, Inc., or any successor
company thereto that serves a like function and purpose. Further, any sign
support used to meet the requirements under division (B) above within the
right-of-way shall not be placed absent initial approval from the governing
authority of said right-of-way. Numbers on signs posted under division (B)
above shall be posted between 30 inches and 60 inches above grade.
   (D)   All numbers used for the postings requirements of divisions (A) and
(B) above shall be permanently affixed and shall be clearly visible from the
street, and at all times free of visual obstructions. No numbers shall be
posted on doors, windows, or any moveable component or temporary structure. The
minimum height of each number shall be four inches to meet the requirements
under division (A) above and three inches to meet the requirements under
division (B) above, and the maximum height shall be 12 inches to meet the
requirements under both divisions (A) and (B) above. Numbers shall be Arabic,
uniform in height, color, and style with no fractions or decimals allowed. To
the extent allowed under the county’s zoning ordinance, the Community
Development Administrator is authorized to issue warnings to advise a property
owner of the illegible nature of any posting and provide that owner with 30
days to remedy the illegibility.
   (E)   A mailbox or mailbox post shall constitute a sufficient posting of
address numbers under this subchapter if the height and style requirements of
this subchapter are met and said structure is singularly located in the right-
of-way near the main entrance to the property, or in case of corner parcels,
located at a place most viewable to emergency responders. The numbers shall be
a minimum of three inches in height and visible when driving on the roadway
from both directions.
   (F)   On certain properties that have principal buildings or structures with
multiple addresses (including, but not limited to, apartments, condominiums,
offices, and the like), each unit with a separate address shall have the
corresponding address numbers permanently affixed at or near its main entrance.
   (G)   For properties with a common shared lane, driveway, or other similar
access point, owners may use one posting to show the range of address numbers
for the principal buildings or structures along said shared entrance. However,
property owners shall further adhere to the requirements of this subchapter at
the entrance of their individual properties.
   (H)   Commercial buildings and schools, as defined under §
157.005, which have multiple entrances and/or exits shall not only adhere to
the posting requirements of this subchapter, but also indicate each individual
entry/exit point, both interior and exterior, with a successive Alpha character
posting identifying each entry/exit point.
   (I)   Principal buildings or structures under construction shall have a
temporary posting containing the address number for the property reasonably
consistent with the requirements of this subchapter. No occupancy permit for
any structure under construction shall be issued until the requirements of this
subchapter are met.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 5-2)
§ 154.152 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   A certified copy of this subchapter shall be filed with the County Clerk,
and this subchapter shall be in full force and in effect on August 1, 2013.
(Prior Code, 8 TCC 5-5)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The violation of the terms of this chapter or any of the codes
adopted herein by reference is hereby declared to be a petty offense, solely
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 for each offense. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The removal or defacing of any notice of violation posted pursuant
to §
154.009 by any person other than the Community Development Administrator or his
or her designee is hereby declared to be a petty offense punishable by a fine
not to exceed $200.
   (B)   (1)   No notice of violation shall be issued under §§
154.145 through
154.147 for the first 90 days after its effective date to allow property owners
to come into compliance. At the expiration of that 90-day period, the county’s
Community Development Department (“Department”) shall begin to issue notice of
violations to property owners and/or occupants under §§
154.145 through
154.147. All notice of violations shall be sent to the property owner(s) and
occupant(s), as required.
      (2)   The first notice of violation notification issued by the Department
as to a particular property shall not levy any monetary penalty. It shall
require the property owner(s) to bring his, her, or their property into
compliance with §§
154.145 through
154.147 within 30 days of the issuance of the notification. If the property
owner(s) have not complied with §§
154.145 through
154.147 by the date noted in the first notice of violation, the Department is
authorized to issue a subsequent, second notice of violation.
      (3)   Any second notice of violation issued by the Department may
institute fines at the rate of $25 per week until the property owners
demonstrate compliance with §§
154.145 through
154.147.
       (4)   The Department is also authorized to issue a formal notice to
appear before the County Hearing Officer with a second notice of violation if
non-compliance occurs for longer than the 30-day deadline established in the
first notice of violation. The notice shall issue to the owners and/or
occupants of said property. For the purposes of this section, any notification
requirement to property owners and/or occupants of the property is met by
showing proof of delivery that such notification was sent via certified United
States Postal Service. In the event property owners and/or occupants do not
accept said certified mail, personal delivery shall be sufficient notice.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 5-1(f); Prior Code, 8 TCC 5-3)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISION CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Authority
   
155.004   Jurisdiction
   
155.005   Repeal of existing regulations
   
155.006   Interpretation and separability
   
155.007   Implementation and enforcement
   
155.008   Exceptions
   
155.009   Modifications
   
155.010   Definitions
Plat Procedure
   
155.025   General review procedure
   
155.026   Plat Review Committee
   
155.027   Pre-application plans and data
   
155.028   Preliminary plat
   
155.029   Final plat
   
155.030   Plats of vacation
   
155.031   General provisions
   
155.032   Tract surveys
General Construction and Design Requirements
   
155.045   Lots
   
155.046   Blocks
   
155.047   Road dedication
   
155.048   Easements
   
155.049   Limitations and maintenance of easements
   
155.050   Watercourses
   
155.051   Sanitary sewers
   
155.052   Water
Road Construction and Design
   
155.070   General requirements for road construction
   
155.071   Standards for subdivision road construction
   
155.072   Classification of roads
   
155.073   Access
   
155.074   Road plans: development and approval
   
155.075   Roads: construction, maintenance, and acceptance by Township Highway
Commissioner
   
155.076   Underground utilities: installation and restoration of original
grade, road surface, and sod
   
155.077   Alleys
   
155.078   Right-of-way
   
155.079   Street names and numbers
Plat Specifications
   
155.095   Preliminary plat specifications
Additional Requirements for Subdivisions to be
Served by On-Site Waste Disposal Systems
   
155.110   General
   
155.111   Preliminary plan stage
   
155.112   Preliminary plat stage
Final Plat Specifications
   
155.130   General description
   
155.131   General final plat requirements
   
155.132   Final plat road requirements
   
155.133   Final plat lot requirements
   
155.134   Septic systems
Security Requirements
   
155.150   General
   
155.151   Amount of security
   
155.152   Release of security
 
   
155.999   Violations and penalties
   
Appendix A:   Minimum Road Design Standards
   
Appendix B:   Plat Certificates
Editor’s note:
   Chapter 155 is taken from the Tazewell County Subdivision Code, current
through September 1, 2018. The Subdivision Code was adopted July 1997, and
amended on the following dates: June 24, 1998; September 26, 2001; April 30,
2003; June 29, 2005; February 22, 2006; March 29, 2006; July 26, 2006; March
26, 2008; February 25, 2009; and September 1, 2018. All amendments subsequent
to September 1, 2018 will be noted immediately following each section.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as "The Tazewell County
Subdivision Ordinance."
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   In the subdivision and re-subdivision of land, a developer is required to
comply with certain procedures outlined in state statutes. This chapter
establishes additional procedures and requirements governing the platting of
land in the county, and is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   Establishing reasonable rules and regulations governing the location,
width, and course of streets, highways, and storm or floodwater runoff channels
and basins;
   (B)   Providing for necessary public grounds for schools, parks, or
playgrounds in any map, plat, or subdivision;
   (C)   Establishing reasonable requirements with respect to water supply and
sewage collection and treatment;
   (D)   Establishing reasonable requirements with respect to street drainage
and surfacing;
   (E)   Establishing reasonable requirements with respect to stormwater
management and erosion control;
   (F)   Guiding and facilitating the orderly beneficial development of the
county and to implement the recommendations of the comprehensive plan;
   (G)   Establishing procedures for approving maps, plats, subdivisions, and
re-subdivisions on any block, lot, or sublot, or any part thereof, or any piece
of parcel of land, not within any city, village, or incorporated town; and
   (H)   Avoiding hazards to persons and damage to property resulting from
flooding, as per
Chapter 152.
§ 155.003 AUTHORITY.
   State statutes allow a county to provide for the public health, safety, and
general welfare. This provision allows the county to establish reasonable
standards of design for subdivisions, including requirements for roads and
alleys, easements for public service facilities, surface drainage and
stormwater control, sewer and water facilities, and public grounds such as
parks and school sites.
§ 155.004 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to any subdivision of land made within the borders
of the county which does not fall within any city, village, or incorporated
town, as provided by state statute.
§ 155.005 REPEAL OF EXISTING REGULATIONS.
   The existing subdivision regulations of the county (known as Subdivision
Regulations and Standards of Tazewell County, Illinois, adopted October 1967
and subsequently amended) are hereby repealed. The adoption of this chapter
shall not affect or prevent any pending or future prosecution of, or action to
abate, any existing violation of Tazewell County Subdivision Regulations and
Standards, if the violation is also a violation of this chapter.
§ 155.006 INTERPRETATION AND SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   When interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they
shall be held to be the minimum requirements throughout unincorporated Tazewell
County.
   (B)   Where this chapter imposes greater restrictions or requirements than
are imposed or required by other provisions of the law or rules, regulations,
covenants, or other agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
However, nothing herein shall interfere with or be construed to abrogate or
annul any easements, covenants, deed restrictions or agreements between parties
which impose restrictions greater than those imposed by this chapter.
   (C)   If any section, provision, or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
§ 155.007 IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The County Board hereby establishes the Staff Plat Review Committee
and grants that Committee the power and authority to waive preliminary plat
requirements and review and recommend approval or disapproval of plats for
subdivision of land within the county.
   (B)   All laws of the state are made a part hereof, the same as if fully set
forth herein, and all officers and employees of the county, all township
officials, and specifically those hereinafter referred to, are directed to
compel compliance with such laws of the state.
   (C)   No plat of subdivision shall be approved which does not comply with
all the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The County Recorder of Deeds may not record any subdivision plat
unless it has been approved by the Plat Officer, the Land Use Committee, and
any municipality which may be affected and has adopted an official city,
village, or town plan.
   (E)   Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the Recorder that any
provisions of the state law governing plats have been violated, it shall be his
duty to notify the State's Attorney who may take appropriate action.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the Plat Officer or Community Development
Administrator to enforce this chapter; to bring to the attention of the County
Board any violations or lack of compliance with this chapter; and to take
appropriate action in the case of violations.
§ 155.008 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Specifically exempted from the provisions of this chapter are those
instances enumerated in the Plat Act, 765 ILCS 205, wherein the provisions of
the Act do not require platting of a subdivision.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to plats of dedication prepared by or for
the Illinois Department of Transportation, the County Highway Department, and/
or Township Highway Commissioner in connection with the improvement or vacation
of any highway or road.
§ 155.009 MODIFICATIONS.
   Where the Land Use Committee finds that extraordinary hardships may result
from strict compliance with this chapter, it may recommend to the County Board
a modification of the regulations so that substantial justice may be done and
the public interest secured, provided that such modification will not have the
effect of nullifying the comprehensive land use plan or this chapter. A fee in
the amount of $200 shall be paid, by the developer/owner, for the processing of
the application for each modification and shall be collected by the Plat
Officer.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS. The way over which traffic moves to and from the property abutting a
street or alley and the way over which traffic moves to and from a major street
to a minor street or from a street to an alley.
   ALLEY. A permanent service right-of-way which affords only a secondary means
of access from such right-of-way to abutting property and is not intended for
general traffic circulation.
   AREA, LOT. The total area within the lot lines.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad right-of-ways, shorelines of waterways,
or boundary lines of a municipalities.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Tazewell County Board of Health or its authorized
representative.
   BOND, SURETY. A good and sufficient security meeting the requirements of §§
155.150 through
155.152.
   CABLE TELEVISION (CATV) COMPANY. A person, firm, or corporation who has
obtained a franchise from the appropriate unit of local government to provide
television signals for public use via permanently installed coaxial cable.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATOR. The appointed head of the Tazewell
County Community Development Department.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The complete plan or any of its parts for the
development of the county as prepared by the Community Development Department
or other planning agency and adopted by the County Board as the official plan.
   CONTIGUOUS. Abutting or adjoining.
   COUNTY. Tazewell County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The elected, legislative body of Tazewell County, Illinois.
   COUNTY CLERK. The elected or appointed County Clerk of Tazewell County,
Illinois.
   COUNTY ENGINEER. The appointed head of the County Highway Department.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street not to exceed 600 feet in length, having one end open
to traffic and being permanently terminated by a circular turn-around having an
outside surface diameter of at least 80 feet and a right-of-way line diameter
of at least 100 feet.
   DEDICATION. Intentional transfer by the developer to the public of ownership
of land or an interest in land for public purpose. Dedication may be effected
by formal conveyance, or by any other method recognized by the law of the
state.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, association, corporation, trust or any other
legal entity who commences proceedings under these regulations by presenting a
subdivision plat or tract survey for approval hereunder.
   EASEMENT. A right or privilege held by the public, a corporation, or person
for the use of the land of another for specified purposes.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The Environmental Protection Agency
for the State of Illinois.
   FINAL PLAT. The official graphic depiction of a subdivision which is
ultimately filed for the record in the Recorder's Office. It shows all lots,
easements, streets, and other dedicated areas. The final plat also indicates
items such as building setback lines, restricted areas for septic systems and
any ingress and egress restrictions.
   FINANCIAL SECURITY. The letter of credit, surety bond or cash escrow
provided by the developer to secure the proposed street and erosion/stormwater
improvements where needed.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus two
feet of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FRONTAGE. The length of any one property line on any one parcel parallel to
and along each public right-of-way it borders.
   GRADE. The slope of ground, a road, street, or other public way specified in
percentage terms.
   GRADE, FINISHED. The final slope of the ground after development, expressed
in a percent.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Tazewell County Health Department.
   HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT. The Tazewell County Highway Department.
   IDOT. The Illinois Department of Transportation.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any change in land, which may result in soil
erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state or county
waters or onto lands in the county, or a change in the amount and/or intensity
of storm water run-off, including, but not limited to, the covering with an
impervious surface, stockpiling, clearing, grading, excavating, rehabilitating,
transporting, depositing, or filling of land.
   LAND SURVEYOR (LICENSED PROFESSIONAL). A surveyor who is licensed to
practice professional surveying by the State of Illinois.
   LAND USE COMMITTEE. The Land Use Committee of the County Board, or any
committee assigned its duties.
   LOT. A parcel of land legally described or subdivided as a distinct portion
or piece of land or lot of record to be separately owned, used, or developed.
The term LOT shall have the following meaning: A tract, plot or portion of a
subdivision or other parcel of land intended as a unit for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, or transfer of ownership or possession, or for building
development.
   LOT LINE, PROPERTY LINE. A line dividing one lot or one parcel from another
lot or parcel or from a street, alley, or other right-of-way.
   OUTLOT. A lot depicted on a final plat which does not meet the requirements
of the
Chapter 157, Zoning Code, for lots of record, and whose use shall be limited to
open space, future right-of-way, stormwater detention or retention, or combined
with an adjacent lot of record. Outlots shall be prohibited from being improved
with a building.
   OWNER. An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, company, organization, trust, or other legal entity having a
proprietary interest in a use, structure, lot, or tract of land.
   PLAN COMMISSION. The Tri County Regional Planning Commission of Peoria,
Tazewell, and Woodford Counties.
   PLAN DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land developed as a unit under single ownership
or control which includes two or more main or principal structures.
   PLAT. A map, plan or layout representing a tract of land showing the
boundaries, location, and existing conditions such as easements and utilities,
or individual properties and streets, or showing a map of a subdivision or site
plan.
   PLAT ACT. The Illinois Plat Act now in effect or as hereafter amended,765
ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.
   PLAT OF VACATION. Any recorded plat that is vacated by the owner of the
premises before the sale of any lot therein.
   PLAT OFFICER. The person designated by the County Board as administrator of
this chapter or their designee.
   PLAT REVIEW COMMITTEE. An administrative unit established by this chapter
for the purpose of performing technical review of proposed subdivisions.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A graphic depiction of the proposed lot lines, streets,
and other engineering improvements of a proposed subdivision superimposed on a
map of the existing topography.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. Any supply which provides water for drinking,
culinary, and sanitary purposes and serves an owner-occupied single-family
dwelling.
   PROJECT. Any development involving modification to land which involves a
land disturbing activity.
   PROPERTY. The general term denoting either singularly or in combination, an
area, lot, parcel, tract, plot, or otherwise designated portion of land.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A system for the provision of the public of piped water
for human consumption, if the system has at least 15 service connections or
regularly serves an average of at least 25 individuals daily, at least 60 days
per year. The term PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM includes any collection, treatment,
storage, or distribution facilities under control of the operator of such
system and used primarily in connection with such system, and any collection or
pretreatment storage facilities not under such control which are used primarily
in connection with such system.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER (LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER). An
engineer who is licensed to practice professional engineering by the State of
Illinois, or who is allowed to practice by the State of Illinois under a
reciprocity agreement with another state.   
   RE-SUBDIVISION. The further division of lots or the relocation of lot lines
of any lot or lots within a subdivision previously made and approved or
recorded according to law.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire dedicated tract or strip of land which is to be
used by the public for circulation or service.
   ROAD COMMISSIONER. The elected or appointed head of the local political
township road district.
   SANITARY SEWER. A constructed conduit for the collection and carrying of
liquid and solid sewage wastes, other than storm waters, to a sewage treatment
plant.
   SCHOOL. A building or group of buildings and all associated structures,
facilities, and grounds in or on which instruction in subjects which are
fundamental and essential in general education is offered under the supervision
of the Regional Superintendent of Schools.
   SEMI-PRIVATE SYSTEM. A water supply which is not a public water system, yet
serves a segment of the public other than an owner-occupied single-family
dwelling.
   SIDEWALK. A paved, surfaced, or leveled portion of the right-of-way,
paralleling and usually separated from the street, used as a pedestrian
walkway.
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STORM SEWER. A constructed conduit for the collection and carrying of
surface waters to a drainage course.
   STREET. A thoroughfare within the right-of-way which affords the principal
means of access to abutting property. A STREET may be designated as an avenue,
boulevard, drive, highway, lane, parkway, place, road thoroughfare, court, or
other appropriate name. STREETS are identified according to type of use, as
follows:
      (1)   Urban standard. A street which is located within the planning
jurisdiction of an incorporated municipality with an adopted comprehensive
plan, subject to their approval.
      (2)   Rural collector standard. A street which has the primary function
of collecting traffic from a local area and moving it to an arterial.
      (3)   Rural local road standard. Direct access. A street providing direct
access to and/or from streets, alleys and abutting properties.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
surface of the ground or underground, or affixed to something having a fixed
location on the surface of the ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels, any of which is less than five acres in area exclusive of all right-
of-way, for the purpose of transfer of ownership or possession, or building
development; of if an easement of access or a new street is involved. This term
includes any division of land that attempts to avoid the requirements of these
regulations. Where appropriate to the content, the term shall relate to the
process of subdivision, or to the land subdivided, and shall include re-
subdivisions.
   TCSWCD. The Tazewell County Soil and Water Conservation District.
   TRACT SURVEY. A survey showing the division of a parcel into two or more new
parcels, of which are greater than five acres in size and which bears the
notations required in §
155.032 (B) below.
   YARD. An open space, other than a court, of uniform width or depth on the
same lot with a structure, lying between the structure and the nearest lot
line, and is unoccupied and unobstructed from the surface of the ground upward
except as may be specifically provided by the regulations and standards.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.025 GENERAL REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   The following procedure applies to subdivision plat review. All plats,
unless specifically exempted, shall be subject to a three-step review procedure
by the Plat Review Committee as established by this subchapter. The Plat Review
Committee shall meet when necessary to consider sketches, plats, drawings and
reports. The Community Development Department shall be responsible for
coordinating the process, arranging meeting dates and times, and reporting to
the Land Use Committee on the results of the Plat Review Committee meetings.
§ 155.026 PLAT REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Plat Review Committee shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Community Development Department - Plat Officer;
      (2)   Health Department - Director of Environmental Health;
      (3)   Highway Department - County Engineer;
      (4)   Township Highway Commissioner;
      (5)   County Soil and Water Conservation District;
      (6)   Land Use Planner; and
      (7)   Local municipality within one and one-half miles (where
applicable).
   (B)   If a Plat Review Committee member is unable to attend a scheduled Plat
Review Committee meeting, they shall submit, in writing, comments regarding the
proposed plat.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.027 PRE-APPLICATION PLANS AND DATA.
   Prior to the filing of an application for conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the developer may submit to the Plat Officer, for
consideration by members of the Plat Review Committee, the following:
   (A)   General information, in the form of a location map and in writing,
outlining existing covenants, zoning, land characteristics, community
facilities and utilities, streets, schools, parks, playgrounds, and commercial
or industrial developments; and
   (B)   Sketch plan showing in simple sketch form the proposed layout of
streets, lots, and other features in relation to existing topographical
conditions.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.028 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Procedure for conditional approval of preliminary plat.
      (1)   The subdivider shall, after the above pre-application procedure,
cause to be prepared a preliminary plat together with improvement plans and
other supplementary material as specified in §
155.095.
      (2)   Eight copies of the preliminary plat, and all required
supplementary material shall be submitted to the County Community Development
Department.
      (3)   At the time of application for preliminary approval, the subdivider
shall pay a plat review fee in the amount of $25 for each lot in the proposed
subdivision, with a minimum charge of $300 and a maximum charge of $1,000, such
amount shall be paid into the general corporate fund of the county.
      (4)   If septic systems are to be used in the proposed subdivision, the
subdivider must also meet the requirements of the Health Department for on-site
wastewater disposal systems as specified in §§
155.110 through
155.112.
      (5)   Preliminary plats must be received at least nine working days prior
to the Plat Review Committee meeting at which they are to be considered.
   (B)   The Community Development Department shall distribute a copy of the
preliminary plat, meeting agenda, and soils report (if one is required) to each
member of the Plat Review Committee. The following individuals and
organizations shall also be notified by the Community Development Department of
the date of the meeting and the time at which the preliminary plat is to be
considered:
      (1)   Developer/owner or his designated representative;
      (2)   Developer/owner’s engineer, planner, or surveyor;
      (3)   Fire Protection District;
      (4)   Adjacent property owners as a courtesy;
      (5)   School districts;
      (6)   Land Use Committee Chairman; and
      (7)   Municipal addressing services.
   (C)   It shall be the developer's responsibility to contact the utility
companies and the CATV company to obtain their easement requirements and other
appropriate utility information concerning the proposed subdivision.
   (D)   The owner, or a designated representative, is required to be present
when the Plat Review Committee evaluates the preliminary plat.
   (E)   After the preliminary plat has been reviewed at a scheduled Plat
Review Committee meeting, minutes from that meeting may be prepared by the
Community Development Department. A copy of the minutes may be sent to the
developer, the Plat Review Committee members, and other parties requesting
copies of these minutes.
   (F)   Approval of preliminary plat by Land Use Committee.
      (1)   It shall be the developer's responsibility to request the Community
Development Department to submit the plat, as approved by the Plat Review
Committee, to the Land Use Committee. However, if a plat has been conditionally
approved by the Plat Review Committee all conditions of approval must be met
and eight copies of the revised plat and drawings submitted to the Community
Development Department before the preliminary plat shall be submitted to the
Land Use Committee.
      (2)   Approval of the preliminary plat by the Land Use Committee is
required prior to the submission of the final plat.
      (3)   Approval of the preliminary plat by the Land Use Committee shall
expire one year from the date of approval. When such approval has expired, the
preliminary plat must again be reviewed and approved by the Plat Review
Committee and the Land Use Committee before a final plat may be submitted.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.029 FINAL PLAT.
   Requirements for the submission of final plat.
   (A)   Not later than one year after conditional approval of the preliminary
plat, or such additional time as the Land Use Committee may allow, the
subdivider may submit to the Plat Officer an intended final plat of the
subdivision, and three productions thereof, prepared in accordance with the
requirements of §§
155.130 through
155.134.
   (B)   The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat as approved and
it may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which the
subdivider proposes to record and develop at the time, provided, however, that
such portion conforms to all requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   If conditional approval has not been obtained, a developer shall
submit five copies of an intended plat and all required supplementary material
specified in §§
155.130 through
155.134 to the Plat Officer for distribution.
   (D)   Within 15 working days after receipt of plats and supplementary
material, the Plat Officer shall inform the developer that the plans and data
as submitted or as modified do or do not meet the requirements of this chapter.
When the plans and data do not meet such requirements, the Plat Officer shall
state the reasons in writing and deliver a copy to the developer.
   (E)   Final approval of the final plat shall be granted by the Plat Officer
on the basis of its conformity with a preliminary plat as approved, and with
all pertinent laws, rules, regulations, and particularly with the technical
requirements of §§
155.110 et seq.,
155.130 et seq., and
155.150 et seq.
   (F)   In the event only a portion of an approved preliminary plat is
presented for final approval, the Plat Officer may notify the developer in
writing whether or not the preliminary approval of the unrecorded portion has
been renewed for one year. In the absence of such written notification, the
developer may within one year after conditional approval of the preliminary
plat, apply to the Land Use Committee for extension of the conditional approval
of the preliminary plat without being required to pay additional fees.
   (G)   Approval of the final plat by the Plat Review Committee and completion
of the requirements of
Appendix B are required prior to approval of the final plat by the Plat
Officer.
   (H)   Upon approval of the final plat by the Plat Officer, said plat shall
be filed with the County Recorder and if not so filed within 60 days, shall
have no validity and shall not be recorded without re-certification by the Plat
Officer. All plats after being recorded, shall become the property of the
county.
   (I)   At the time of filing the final plat with the Plat Officer, the
subdivider shall pay a fee of $150 plus $25 for each lot and a maximum charge
of $1,000. Such amount shall be paid to the corporate fund of the county.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.030 PLATS OF VACATION.
   Any plat of record that is to be vacated by the owner of the premises must
comply with the procedures enumerated in the 765 ILCS 205.
§ 155.031 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All federal, state, county, and other official bench marks, monuments,
and triangulation stations in or adjacent to a proposed subdivision shall be
preserved. When a proposed improvement in a subdivision makes it necessary to
move a bench mark, monument, or triangulation station, the authority having
jurisdiction shall be notified and given sufficient time to take appropriate
action.
   (B)   All dimensions, linear, curvilinear and angular, necessary to properly
re-survey shall be shown, with linear dimensions in feet and decimals of a
foot.
   (C)   Monumentation shall be in accordance with the procedures and
requirements of the Plat Act.
   (D)   The design of the subdivision shall be in harmony with and shall
conform with the comprehensive plan and shall be in accordance with good
subdivision design principles not otherwise set forth herein.
   (E)   Natural features, such as distinctive trees or vegetation, streams,
ponds, hilltops, bluffs, creek bottoms, and outlook views shall be preserved
and enhanced wherever possible. In laying out a subdivision, due consideration
shall be given to aesthetic features which exist within the tract being
subdivided and which may add to the aesthetic quality of existing nearby
subdivisions.
§ 155.032 TRACT SURVEYS.
   Requirements for submission for tract survey approval.
   (A)   A tract survey shall be required:
      (1)   When a parcel is split into two or more new parcels, all of which
are greater than five acres in size;
      (2)   Any of the new parcels are described using a metes-and-bounds
description, whole or in part; and
      (3)   Any of the new parcels are not exempt. For this purpose of this
provision, "exempt" describes a parcel that either:
         (a)   Would meet the requirements described in exemption of 2, 3, 8,
9, or 10 of the Plat Act, 765 ILCS 205/1 (b), as in effect at the time of
application; or
         (b)   Would meet the requirements described in Chapter 157 of the
Tazewell County Zoning Code, as in effect at the time of application.
   (B)   Required notations. The following shall be required on all tract
surveys or as only noted:
      (1)   Long driveways. For any parcel being created by a tract survey that
extends greater than 500 feet from the adjacent right-of-way and street, the
following shall appear on the Tract Survey:
      “NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC: The creation of long private driveways may result
in increased response time or inaccessibility of emergency service vehicles.”
      (2)   Health Department note on all tract surveys. "This Tract Survey
does not provide for, nor imply, assurance of the compatibility for future
construction utilizing a private sewage disposal system. A permit shall be
obtained from the County Health Department prior to issuance of a building
permit and construction.
      (3)   Floodplain. The surveyor shall determine if the parcel is located
within any regulatory floodplain or floodway. If is so located, it shall be
noted graphically on the tract survey and with the following language:
   “This parcel is located in a special flood hazard area. Zone        ,
Community-Panel                   . Improvements to this parcel may require
special approval”, OR
   I certify that none of the above described property is located in a flood
hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency except as
indicated on (Community & Panel No.)
                                                                    
   Illinois Land Surveyor
      (4)   Waivers. The surveyor shall also note all waivers that were
approved by the County Board, including the section of this Code from which the
waiver was sought.
      (5)   Other approvals. The surveyor shall note any Zoning Board of
Appeals Zoning Case number and approval date related to the new parcel where
applicable.
      (6)   If the parcel is served by a public water provider or water
district the following language shall be used: “Water for this parcel is
provided by                                                           . Notice
of hook-up is required prior to start of construction.”
If the parcel is not served by any water provider, and an individual well is
needed, the following language shall be used: “There is no public water
provider to this parcel. Development of the parcel requires a well permit from
the County Health Department.”
      (7)   Zoning. Every tract survey shall note the zoning of the parcel on
the day of recording with the following note: “On
                             , this parcel is known to be zoned
                    .”
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.045 LOTS.
   (A)   The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties in securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance
with
Chapter 157 and Health Department regulations.
   (B)   Lot dimensions, areas, and building setback lines shall conform to the
requirements of
Chapter 157.
   (C)   The lot shape, size, and orientation shall be appropriate for the
location of the subdivision and for the type of development and use
contemplated.
   (D)   All lots shall have 20 feet of frontage on a public road which is
presently, or shall be upon completion of the subdivision, publically
maintained, unless otherwise specified in
Chapter 157. The road/street system of the subdivision shall access directly
upon a dedicated road publicly maintained, or road/street which upon completion
of the subdivision shall be publicly maintained. Lots with access only to
existing private streets or easements shall be permitted only in circumstances
in which an extraordinary hardship exists and with the approval of a waiver by
the County Board.
   (E)   If any portion of a lot falls within the boundaries of critical soils
as identified by the County Soil and Water Conservation District for on-site
wastewater disposal systems, that portion of such lot shall be designated as
restricted for use of septic systems unless evidence can be produced that the
soils can be managed by appropriate common engineering practices which would
render the soils suitable. Soils removal and replacement are not considered a
suitable management practice.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.046 BLOCKS.
   The length, width, and shape of blocks shall be determined with regard to:
   (A)   Needs for convenient access and circulation of emergency vehicles and
the general public with due regard to the safety of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic;
   (B)   Limitations and capabilities of topography, soils, drainage and other
natural features;
   (C)   Provision of adequate building sites for the special type of use
contemplated; and
   (D)   Future access to adjacent properties and direct connection with the
existing streets in adjoining subdivisions when appropriate.
§ 155.047 ROAD DEDICATION.
   All roads created by a subdivision shall be shown on the plat as dedicated
to public use. Rights-of-way shall be not less than 60 feet wide. A greater
width may be required if deemed necessary by the Plat Review Committee, the
Township Highway Commissioner, or the County Engineer.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.048 EASEMENTS.
   The following easements shall be required.
   (A)   Utility easements. Easements of not less than seven feet shall be
provided for utility services including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer,
storm water, water, gas, telephone, and electric. Location of easements shall
be determined by the appropriate utility companies. The developer is encouraged
to provide underground utilities where conditions permit.
   (B)   Cable television easements. An easement shall be provided for the
installation of cable when requested by the locally franchised CATV company. If
the CATV company has negotiated an agreement for joint use of an easement with
a utility company, the easement shall be designated as a joint-use easement on
the final plat.
   (C)   Drainage easement. When a subdivision is traversed by a waterway,
intermittent stream, or drainageway, there shall be provided a stormwater
easement or drainage easement conforming substantially with the lines of same.
Such easement shall be of sufficient size to protect said waterway,
intermittent stream, or drainage way, and to permit ingress and egress for
maintenance.   
   (D)   Stormwater retention and detention easements. All permanent drainage
retention and detention features for subdivisions shall be protected by
drainage and/or maintenance easements.
   (E)   Pedestrian way easements. Easements shall be provided for pedestrian
ways where deemed appropriate by the Plat Review Committee.
§ 155.049 LIMITATIONS AND MAINTENANCE OF EASEMENTS.
   (A)   No construction of structures, dams, embankments, or channels (except
as indicated on the engineering drawings), and no planting of trees, shrubbery,
or other flow-impeding vegetation, which hinders the flow of water or otherwise
inhibits the intended purpose, shall be allowed within any drainage or
stormwater retention or detention easements.
   (B)   Drainage easements must be separate and distinct from utility
easements and the two shall not be combined.
   (C)   Drainage and stormwater retention and detention easements shall be
adequately maintained so as to provide for removal and accumulation of
vegetation, silt, debris or other material which may interfere with the flow
characteristics of drainage ways or the essential features of retention or
detention facilities.
   (D)   Pedestrian way easements shall be maintained to permit their continued
use.
   (E)   Provisions shall be made through a homeowner's association, deed
restrictions, covenants, or other acceptable means to provide for the
maintenance all easements.
§ 155.050 WATERCOURSES.
   Prior to any alteration or relocation of watercourses, the developer shall
secure any necessary permits or clearances from the State Department of
Transportation, Division of Water Resources, the State Environmental Protection
Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, or other such agencies as may be
required by law. The flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse shall be maintained.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.051 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   In this section and §§
155.052 and
155.070, the phrase "the developer shall provide" shall be interpreted to mean
that the developer shall install the facility referred to, or whenever a
private sewage disposal system or an individual water supply is to be provided,
that the developer shall require, as a condition of the sale of each lot in the
subdivision, that the facilities referred to in these paragraphs shall be
installed by the owner of the lot before occupation of the lot occurs.
   (B)   When a subdivision is reasonably accessible to a municipal sanitary
sewer system, the developer shall provide the subdivision with a complete
sanitary sewer system to be connected to the municipal sanitary sewer system,
if feasible. A subdivision is considered to be reasonably accessible if it is
contiguous to the municipal limits such that it may be annexed to the
municipality and/or its property line is within 1,320 feet of a municipal
sanitary sewer line, or the municipality is willing, at its expense, to extend
a sanitary sewer line to within 1,320 feet of the subdivision property line.
   (C)   When no municipal sanitary sewer system is available or is not
reasonably accessible to the subdivision, the developer shall provide the
subdivision with one of the following:
      (1)   A complete sanitary sewer system to convey the sewage to a
treatment plant, to be provided by the subdivider in accordance with minimum
requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency and the County Health
Department, with adequate provision for the maintenance of such plant; or
      (2)   Private sewage disposal systems on individual lots consisting of
septic tanks and tile absorption fields or other approved sewage disposal
systems, where laid out in accordance with the provisions of the County
Sanitary Health Ordinance and §§
155.110 through
155.112.
   (D)   Upon completion of the sanitary sewer system installation a registered
professional engineer shall certify that the sanitary sewer system complies
with all the standards required by the county and the State Environmental
Protection Agency. Certified copies of the plans for such sanitary sewer system
to be built shall be filed with Plat Officer, County Health Department, and the
State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (E)   Storm sewers shall not be connected to sanitary sewers.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.052 WATER.
   (A)   The developer shall provide the subdivision with a complete water main
supply system which shall be connected to a public water supply, or a community
water supply approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency, with
satisfactory provision for the maintenance thereof, except that when such
community water supply is not available, the developer shall provide a private
or semi-private water system on each lot of the subdivision in accordance with
minimum standards as set forth in the Illinois Department of Public Health
Water Well Construction Code.
   (B)   The plans for the installation of a water main supply system shall be
prepared by the subdivider with the cooperation of the applicable water utility
company. Upon the completion of the water supply installation copies of the
plans for such system as built shall be filed with the Plat Officer, the County
Health Department, and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND DESIGN
§ 155.070 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ROAD CONSTRUCTION.
   The developer shall grade, drain, surface, and otherwise improve the roadway
of all streets shown on the plat so as to provide reasonable access for
vehicular traffic to each lot of the subdivision in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
§ 155.071 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION ROAD CONSTRUCTION.
   Subdivision road design standards shall conform to the most current edition
of the IDOT “Bureau of Local Roads and Streets Manual" except as specifically
modified herein. Subdivision road construction standards in the county shall
conform to the most current edition of the IDOT “Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction.”
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.072 CLASSIFICATION OF ROADS.
   The Plat Review Committee and Township Highway Commissioner shall classify
each street shown on the plat of the subdivision as to its functional use as
urban standard, rural collector standard or a rural local standard. The minimum
design requirements in this subchapter shall apply to subdivision roads in
unincorporated Tazewell County.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.073 ACCESS.
   Access to an existing or proposed major street or a railroad right-of-way or
rail crossing shall be limited to a minimum number of intersections and
determined with due regard for sight distance, distance between intersections,
approach grades, and requirements for future grade separations.
§ 155.074 ROAD PLANS: DEVELOPMENT AND APPROVAL.
   Before a preliminary plat may be approved by the Land Use Committee, the
following procedure shall be completed:
   (A)   Complete road plans, prepared and sealed by a professional engineer,
shall be submitted. The road plans shall show sufficient data to insure
compliance with §
155.071.
   (B)   A complete and detailed estimate of cost, prepared and sealed by a
professional engineer, shall be submitted. The cost estimate shall set forth
all items of work to be performed and the estimated cost thereof.
   (C)   The road plans and cost estimates shall be reviewed and approved by
the Plat Review Committee, the Township Highway Commissioner and/or the County
Engineer. Plans which appear unworkable and estimates which appear inadequate
will not be approved.
   (D)   After the road plans and cost estimates have been approved, and prior
to submission to the Land Use Committee, the owner shall obtain good and
sufficient security to insure that the road construction will be completed and
the roads will be maintained until accepted. The security furnished shall meet
the requirements of §§
155.150 through
155.152.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.075 ROADS: CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, AND ACCEPTANCE BY TOWNSHIP HIGHWAY
COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   New road construction must comply with
Chapter 151.
   (B)   No road construction work shall be started until a final plat has been
approved and recorded.
   (C)   The developer shall be responsible for maintaining all roads in the
subdivision until such roads have been accepted by the appropriate highway
authority. Maintenance, which shall include snow plowing, shall be adequate to
insure ingress and egress to all lots which have been sold. Failure to ensure
adequate ingress/egress shall be cause for withholding of building permits and
the approval of additional units of the development.
   (D)   Subdivision roads will not be accepted by the Township Highway
Commissioner until all construction detailed in the plans has been completed.
It is the responsibility of the developer to consult with the Township Highway
Commissioner before the work has begun to afford the Township Highway
Commissioner an opportunity to inspect the work as construction progresses.
   (E)   Prior to acceptance of streets in a subdivision, the shoulders and
ditches must be smoothed by dragging and planted with a seed mixture
appropriate to the time of year in accordance with the recommendations of the
USDA - Soil Conservation Service.
   (F)   The developer shall furnish and erect all necessary signs, including
street signs, as designated by the Township Highway Commissioner. All signs
shall be of a type approved by the Township Highway Commissioner. In addition,
the developer shall consult with the Township Highway Commissioner during the
preliminary plat stage to determine the appropriate size and placement of mail
boxes in order to allow for adequate road maintenance.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.076 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES: INSTALLATION AND RESTORATION OF ORIGINAL
GRADE, ROAD SURFACE, AND SOD.
   (A)   It is recommended that the developer keep all utility and CATV
companies appraised of progress on the subdivision, and coordinate construction
activities with those of the utility and CATV companies.
   (B)   If underground utility installation cannot be completed prior to final
grading and seeding, it shall be the responsibility of the developer to restore
the ditches and turf following installation of underground utilities.
   (C)   Utility companies shall not dig trenches across any roads after
placement of the aggregate surface course unless complete restoration meeting
the approval of the Township Highway Commissioner is provided.
§ 155.077 ALLEYS.
   Alleys shall not be permitted.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.078 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Dead-end streets designed to be so permanently shall not be longer
than 600 feet, unless limitation of site by reason of topography or existing
development makes development impractical except with a longer length. Such
streets shall be provided with a circular turn-around having an outside surface
diameter of at least 80 feet and right-of-way line diameter of at least 100
feet.
   (B)   All streets shall be public and must have a right-of-way width of at
least 60 feet unless specified by the Township Highway Commissioner. Any
appeals to this requirement shall be made to the Land Use Committee for
consideration.
   (C)   Reserved strips controlling access to street right-of-way shall not be
permitted except upon approval of the Land Use Committee and when control and
disposition of the reserved strip is vested in the County Board.
§ 155.079 STREET NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The continuation of an existing street shall have the same name. The name of
a new street shall not duplicate the name of an existing street within the area
served by the same post office or fire department.
PLAT SPECIFICATIONS
§ 155.095 PRELIMINARY PLAT SPECIFICATIONS.
   General requirements. The preliminary plat and all accompanying technical
data shall be signed, sealed, and dated by the professional engineer or land
surveyor who supplies it. A preliminary plat of the subdivision shall be
accurately drawn to a scale of 100 feet to one inch, and show all proposals
including, but not necessarily limited to, the following.
   (A)   The plat shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name of subdivision;
      (2)   Legal description;
      (3)   Township;
      (4)   Zoning classification;
      (5)   Total acreage;
      (6)   North arrow;
      (7)   Owner name and address;
      (8)   Certificate of registered professional engineer or surveyor;
      (9)   Scale of drawing;
      (10)   Benchmarks;
      (11)   Date of survey;
      (12)   Numbered lots; and
      (13)   Typical lot size.
   (B)   The name of the subdivision shall not be a duplicate of any other in
the county except in the case of additions.
   (C)   All existing property lines, section and quarter section lines, and
existing buildings.
   (D)   Existing streets on and adjacent to the tract: by name, right-of-way
width, location, type, width, and elevation of surfacing, curbs, gutters,
culverts, and sidewalks.
   (E)   Existing utilities on and adjacent to the tract. Location, size, and
invert elevation of sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and where existing location
and size of watermain, location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and
telephone poles and street lights; and if any of the above are not available at
site, indicate direction and distance to the nearest ones and furnish statement
of availability.
   (F)   The names of all subdivisions within 300 feet shall be included, and
property not subdivided shall be so marked.
   (G)   The type of zoning shall be indicated for surrounding property within
300 feet.
   (H)   Existing grade elevations and all changes proposed thereto. On tracts
based on USGS datum (United States Geological Survey), showing existing and
proposed contours at vertical intervals as follows:
      (1)   Slope of 3% or less - one foot interval contour map;
      (2)   Slope of over 3% but less than 6% - two-foot interval contour map;
and
      (3)   Slope of over 6% - five-foot interval contour map.
   (I)   A list of all political and service districts such as fire protection,
grade and high school, post office, park, library, and the like shall be shown.
   (J)   All special use areas which will be dedicated, such as parks, ponds,
preserves, and school lots shall be shown.
   (K)   All watercourses with their high and low water boundaries, all flood
hazard areas and man-made drainage systems such as ditches and tiles, showing
locations and outlets shall be shown.
   (L)   If the proposed subdivision lies within one and one-half miles of any
municipality, the preliminary plat must be approved by the Planning Commission
of any municipality which will later be required to sign the final plat prior
to the Plat Officer. A certificate shall be placed on the plat to indicate such
approval (see Appendix B).
   (M)   Show locations of all existing wells and septic systems within 100
feet of the boundary and the proposed locations of all wells, septic systems,
and replacement systems when on-site systems are to be used.
   (N)   Show all easements, location, width, and purpose.
   (O)   Show 100-year flood base elevations limit lines.
   (P)   Draft of protective covenants, where applicable, whereby the developer
proposes to regulate land use in the subdivision and otherwise protect the
proposed development.
   (Q)   Show lot lines, number, and block numbers.
   (R)   Show location of minimum setback lines.
   (S)   Utilities. Location, type, and approximate size. This information may
be shown on a separate exhibit.
   (T)   Site data. Including number of residential lots, typical lot size, and
acres in other public and non-public land uses.
   (U)   Copy of the soil analysis as conducted by a soil scientist. This
analysis shall also be provided to the Health Department prior to submittal of
the preliminary plat to the Community Development Department.
   (V)   Four sets of complete road plans, prepared and sealed by a
professional engineer with complete detailed estimate of cost, prepared and
sealed by a professional engineer. The cost estimate shall set forth all of
items of work to be performed and cost estimates thereof.
   (W)   Show approximate location of dwellings to be constructed on each lot.
   (X)   Show locations of all vertical closed loop wells.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS TO BE SERVED
BY ON-SITE WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 155.110 GENERAL.
   (A)   There are some instances where the use of individual septic systems
will be required to serve development depicted on the land use map. However,
the Board of Health or its authorized representative may refuse to grant a
permit for the construction of a private sewage disposal system where public or
municipal sewage systems are available and considered reasonably accessible. A
sewer shall be deemed to be reasonably accessible when a public sewer line is
in place within any street, alley, right-of-way, or easement that adjoins or
abuts the premises for which the permit is requested, or when the improvement
to be served is located within a reasonable distance of a public sewer to which
connection is practical and is permitted by the controlling authority for the
sewer. A reasonable distance for the purpose of this provision shall be deemed
to not greater than 300 feet for a single-family residence and not greater than
1,320 feet for a commercial establishment, subdivision, or multi-family
dwelling. The need to annex the commercial establishment, subdivision, or
multi-family dwelling to the municipality in order to connect to the municipal
sanitary sewer system does not make the municipal sanitary sewer system
inaccessible within the meaning of this section.
   (B)   When it is proposed to utilize on-site disposal systems it is
extremely important to determine which soils and their characteristics are
present on the proposed site. The purpose of this is to specify the
requirements that must be met by the developer at the concept and preliminary
plan stages of the subdivision review process.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.111 PRELIMINARY PLAN STAGE.
   (A)   The developer must submit a land use opinion report, obtained from the
County Soil and Water Conservation District, showing the location of the
property in question, types of soils found on the property and corresponding
soil interpretive reports for water features, physical properties of soils and
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   The developer will submit information received from County Soil and
Water Conservation District to the Health Department for determination of type
of septic systems and minimum size of lots. The size of each lot shall include
an area for a replacement system similar to the proposed septic system.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.112 PRELIMINARY PLAT STAGE.
   When designing a subsurface seepage system the absorption capacity of the
soil for each lot shall be determined by one of the methods described below.
Lot boundaries must be located prior to on site soil investigations or
percolation tests.
   (A)   Soil investigations shall be conducted in the following manner:
      (1)   Determination of soil characteristics on sites proposed for
development with private sewage disposal systems shall be based on soil boring
data collected by a soil classifier or a state licensed professional engineer.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum of three borings per soil absorption
system site. The soil borings shall be at least 50 feet apart, and the proposed
subsurface seepage system shall be located within the area where the soil
borings were located. More soil borings may be necessary for accurate and
appropriate evaluation of a site where there is some concern about the
consistency of the soil materials. One of the borings shall be made at the
lowest elevation of the proposed absorption field area. Borings shall extend a
minimum of 60 inches below the natural ground surface. An observation pit shall
be used in gravelly materials.
      (3)   Observation and determination of soil characteristics may be also
determined from a pit dug by a backhoe or other excavating equipment. The
Health Department may require soil bits (backhoe excavation) in cases where
ground is frozen, where the soil materials are considerably varied in texture,
where there has been previous or current fill material, cutting of soils, or
where gravelly soils are encountered. Such soil pits shall be prepared at the
perimeter of the expected soil absorption area to minimize damage to natural
soil structure. Soil pits shall extend a minimum of 60 inches below the natural
ground surface.
      (4)   Site characteristics to be described include zones of seasonal and
permanent water saturation, USDA soil textural changes, USDA soil structural
features, slope, compaction and depth, soil coloration, depth of limiting
layer, depth of soil mottling (depth of low chroma equal to or less than two
and a value of four or more-Munsell Color system), internal drainage
classification, and permeability range, and other limiting soil characteristics
that may reduce permeability.
   (B)   Only those persons who meet the qualification as specified in the
State Department of Public Health, Private Sewage Licensing Act and Code can
perform soil investigations.
   (C)   Septic systems evaluation forms provided by the county must be
completed and provided to the Health Department. The Health Department will
review and make final determination on type of septic systems and lot sizes.
FINAL PLAT SPECIFICATIONS
§ 155.130 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   A final plat is the document which is ultimately filed for the record
in the County Recorder's Office. It shows all lots, easements, streets, and
other dedicated areas. The final plat also indicates items such as building
setback lines, restrictions for septic systems, and any ingress and egress
restrictions.
   (B)   During construction of a subdivision, the information on the final
plat will be supplemented by the engineering plans. After construction has been
completed, however, the only document which will be retained indefinitely is
the final plat. Therefore, a final plat must indicate any information which may
be needed in the future concerning a particular subdivision.
   (C)   Where unusual terrain or the existence of a lake, river, or railroad
makes strict conformance with the requirements of this chapter impractical, the
Plat Review Committee may recommend minor deviations from those requirements.
§ 155.131 GENERAL FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   A final plat shall be prepared in accordance with the following general
requirements.
   (A)   The final plat may include all or only a part of the area of the
preliminary plat as proposed in the application.
   (B)   The final plat shall be drawn in accordance with the approved
preliminary plat.
   (C)   The final plat shall be drawn in ink or linen tracing cloth or
suitable mylar drafting film. A photo reproduction on mylar is acceptable.
   (D)   The plat shall be labeled as final plat, and show the name of the
subdivision with the township name underneath.
   (E)   The zoning classification of the property being subdivided shall be
indicated on the plat.
   (F)   The plat shall be drawn to a scale of 100 feet to one inch. However, a
larger scale may be used if desired for a proper exhibit of the subdivision.
The maximum sheet size shall be 24 inches by 36 inches, but more than one sheet
may be used if necessary. All hand lettering shall be legible and at least 1/10
inches high.
   (G)   The plat shall include a correct survey of the property being
subdivided, including a legal description.
   (H)   A north arrow, the scale, date, and all section and quarter-section
lines shall be indicated on the plat.
   (I)   The lines and dimensions of all adjoining properties, and the names,
lines, and dimensions of all adjoining roads, streets, and alleys shall be
shown.
   (J)   All dimensions, linear, curvilinear and angular, necessary to properly
re-survey, shall be shown, with linear dimensions in feet and decimals of a
foot.
   (K)   Subdivision monument requirements. Each new subdivision shall be
provided with monuments located and described on the final plat in the manner
required by the Plat Act.
   (L)   A certificate, to be signed by the surveyor, shall be placed on the
final plat to indicate that all monuments required by the Plat Act have been
set and properly described on the final plat.
   (M)   All required certificates shall be placed on the plat.
      (1)   Certificate indicating approval by municipality having
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Owners certificate and notary certificate;
      (3)   Township Highway Commissioner's certificate;
      (4)   County Engineer or State Department of Transportation certificate;
      (5)   Surveyor's certificate;
      (6)   Local Health Department certificate;
      (7)   County Clerk’s certificate;
      (8)   County Plat Officer's certificate;
      (9)   Flood hazard certificate; and
      (10)   Erosion, sediment, and storm water control statement.
   (N)   The easement requirements of each utility and CATV company shall be
determined, and all required utility and CATV easements indicated on the plat.
Other required easements such as drainage, stormwater detention and retention,
road construction and maintenance, and pedestrian way easements (if needed)
shall also be shown on the plat. Each easement shall be adequately dimensioned
and its purpose clearly indicated.
   (O)   A list of all districts, such as post office, grade school, high
school, fire protection, and the like, shall be placed on the plat.
   (P)   All non-road dedicated areas shall be indicated on the plat. The
purpose of each such area, any restrictions on its use, and conveyance of
ownership to a property owners' association shall also be indicated on the
plat. It is conventional to indicate each such area as hereby dedicated.
   (Q)   If a declaration of covenants and restrictions is prepared for the
subdivision, it shall be filed in the Recorder's Office. A reference to the
declaration, including document number, shall be placed on the plat. In
addition to other provisions, the declaration should specify:
      (1)   The obligation of the association to maintain the common
properties;
      (2)   The mandatory membership of all property owners;
      (3)   The obligation of all owners to pay assessments;
      (4)   The right of the association to enforce any restrictions; and
      (5)   Automatic renewal of the covenants after a fixed period.
   (R)   Subdivisions encompassing a flood hazard area shall show on the final
plat the following: boundary of the flood hazard area; boundary of the
floodway, if shown on available flood hazard maps; the FPE for each building
site. Where the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study
filed with the State Water Survey, the applicant shall be responsible for
calculating the FPE and submitting it to the State Water Survey for review and
approval as best available elevation data.
   (S)   The final plat shall be signed and dated by the land surveyor who
prepared it, and shall bear his official seal. No additions or corrections
shall be made on the final plat by anyone other than the surveyor or someone
under his immediate supervision.
   (T)   Show approximate location of dwellings to be constructed on each lot.
   (U)   Show locations of all existing wells and septic systems within 100
feet of the boundary, and the proposed locations of all wells, septic systems
and replacement systems when on-site systems are to be used.
   (V)   Show locations of all vertical closed loop wells.
   (W)   Where a lot has frontage on both an interior road and an existing main
road, access shall be restricted to the interior road. A note indicating such
restriction shall be placed on the plat.
   (X)   A street address in conformance with the numbering system adopted by
the county shall be determined for each lot and indicated on the plat.
   (Y)   Four sets of completed erosion, sediment, and stormwater control plans
in accordance with
Chapter 151. In addition to a complete detailed estimate cost prepared by a
professional engineer for all control measures required.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.132 FINAL PLAT ROAD REQUIREMENTS.
   The final plat road arrangements shall be consistent with the approved
preliminary plat. All requirements of §§ 155.070 - 155.078 must be met, except
that a typical road cross-section is not required.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.133 FINAL PLAT LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   The final plat shall be consistent with the approved preliminary plat with
regard to number of lots, configuration, setback lines, and the like. In
addition, the following additional requirements shall be met:
   (A)   A street address in conformance with the numbering system adopted by
the county shall be determined for each lot and indicated on the plat; and
   (B)   Where a lot has frontage on both an interior road and an existing main
road, access shall be restricted to the interior road. A note indicating such
restriction shall be placed on the plat.
§ 155.134 SEPTIC SYSTEMS.
   When septic systems are to be used in a subdivision, it is important that
each lot has a suitable location for a septic system. See §§
155.110 through
155.112 for the requirements which must be met prior to final plat approval.
SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.150 GENERAL.
   Prior to approval of the final plat in order to insure that the work will be
completed, all engineering improvements and erosion control methods which are
proposed in conjunction with a new subdivision, the developer shall deliver to
the Plat Officer a surety bond with corporate surety or other adequate security
for 100% of the approved estimated cost of improvements.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.151 AMOUNT OF SECURITY.
   (A)   The developer shall deliver to the Plat Officer a good and sufficient
bond or other adequate security equal to 100% of the amount estimated by the
subdivider's registered professional engineer to be the present cost of roads
and other required improvements to insure completion of the work. The bond or
other adequate security shall be conditioned upon faithful adherence to the
rules and regulations as contained within this chapter.
   (B)   Security shall be accompanied by an agreement executed by the
developer, and approved in writing by the County Engineer, wherein the
developer agrees to make and install the improvements in accordance with the
final plat and specifying a completion date in accordance within this chapter.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.152 RELEASE OF SECURITY.
   (A)   No portion of the road construction, maintenance, storm water and
erosion control security will be released as the work progresses. The entire
amount posted/deposited shall be retained until all work covered by the
security is satisfactorily completed and approved by the County Engineer.
   (B)   Prior to the release of any bond or other adequate security for
subdivision improvements, a letter of acceptance from the Township Highway
Commissioner and/or the County Engineer shall be submitted to the Plat Officer.
Additionally, a letter from the registered professional engineer in charge of
construction of such improvements shall be required to certify that all
improvements have been completed in accordance with the approved engineering
plans and specifications on file in the County Community Development
Department. Such certification shall cover all engineering aspects of the
development, including, but not limited to, erosion control methods, roads,
detention/retention, grading, filling, and any topographic changes or
adjustments proposed.
   (C)   The developer shall have two years to complete all subdivision
improvements after submittal of the good and sufficient bond or other adequate
security or the county shall have the right to the good and sufficient bond or
other adequate security for completion of the subdivision improvements.
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
§ 155.999 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   No owner or agent of the owner of any land located in a proposed
subdivision shall transfer, sell, lease, or offer for sale or lease any such
land before a final plat of such subdivision has been approved in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter and recorded. Whoever shall sell or lease
or offer for sale or lease, any lot or block in any subdivision before
complying with all of the requirements of these regulations, shall be guilty of
a "petty offense" and shall be subject to a fine of $25 a day for each lot so
disposed of or offered until such final plat is recorded.
   (B)   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land by the use of metes
and bounds descriptions for the purpose of sale, transfer, or lease, with the
intent of evading these regulations, shall not be permitted. All such described
subdivisions shall be subject to all of the requirements in this chapter.
APPENDIX A: MINIMUM ROAD DESIGN STANDARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d49d383718d7f0a2a2365ffc494fd2361a4e979a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1828.png]
APPENDIX B: PLAT CERTIFICATES
   (A)   Municipal approval.
      (1)   If the proposed subdivision lies within one and one-half miles of a
municipality with a recorded plan, the final plat must be approved by the City
Council of that municipality. A certificate indicating such approval signed by
the Village/City Clerk and President/ Mayor shall be placed on the final plat.
The following wording is suggested:
         STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
                     ) ss
         County of Tazewell      )
         Approved by the (Village/City) of (name) this (day) of (month),
20      .
         (signature)                     (signature)    
         President/Mayor                  Clerk
      (2)   Note. If the subdivision lies within one and one-half miles of
several municipalities, only one municipality will be required to sign. If a
planning advisory boundary line has been negotiated, the municipality
exercising its statutory privilege of planning advice shall sign. If such a
boundary line had not been negotiated, only the closest municipality shall be
required to sign the plat. However, all contiguous municipalities must sign the
final plat.
   (B)   Township Highway Commissioner's approval. All final plats must be
approved by the Township Highway Commissioner of each political township in
which the subdivision lies. A certificate indicating that the Township Highway
Commissioner has approved the final plat and will accept the subdivision
streets and roads when they are completed shall be placed on the final plat.
The following wording is suggested for the Township Highway Commissioner:
         STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
                     ) ss
         County of Tazewell      )
         I,                         , the Township Highway Commissioner of
                        Road District, do hereby certify that the proposed plat
meets the safety and access control standards of                           Road
District with respect to roadway access to Township Road #
                           , pursuant to 765 ILCS 205/2; however, a highway
permit for access Is required of the owner of the property prior to
construction within the township road right-of-way.
                                                                     
         (Name) Township Highway Commissioner
   (C)   Certificate of County Engineer.
         STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
                        ) ss
         COUNTY OF TAZEWELL      )
         THIS PLAT HAS BEEN APPROVED BY THE TAZEWELL COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
WITH RESPECT TO ROADWAY ACCESS TO COUNTY HIGHWAY #          , PURSUANT TO 765
ILCS 205/2; HOWEVER, A HIGHWAY PERMIT FOR ACCESS IS REQUIRED OF THE OWNER OF
THE PROPERTY PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION WITHIN THE COUNTY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
         DATED THIS       DAY OF                 , 20    
                                                             
         TAZEWELL COUNTY ENGINEER
   (D)   Certificate of Illinois Department of Transportation.
         STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
                        ) ss
         COUNTY OF TAZEWELL      )
         THIS PLAT HAS BEEN APPROVED BY THE ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION WITH RESPECT TO ROADWAY ACCESS PURSUANT TO 765 ILCS, ARTICLE
205, PARAGRAPH 2. HOWEVER, A PERMIT FOR ACCESS IS REQUIRED BY THE OWNER OF THE
PROPERTY. A PLAN THAT MEETS REQUIREMENTS CONTAINED IN THE DEPARTMENTS "POLICY
ON PERMITS FOR ACCESS DRIVEWAYS TO STATE HIGHWAYS" WILL BE REQUIRED BY THE
DEPARTMENT.
         DATED THIS       DAY OF                , 20    
                                                                    
         DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HIGHWAYS,
         REGION THREE ENGINEER
   (E)   Owners's certificate and notary certificate. A certificate shall be
placed on the final plat indicating the ownership of the land being subdivided.
A notary certificate shall be placed beneath the owner's certificate in witness
of the owner's signature. The following general wording of these two
certificates is suggested:
                     OWNER'S CERTIFICATE
            STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
                        ) ss   
            County of Tazewell      )   
            This is to certify that the undersigned, (List Names) is (are) the
legal owner(s) of record of the land described on the plat hereon drawn and
shown hereon as subdivided, and that he (they) has (have) caused said land to
be surveyed, subdivided, staked, and platted as shown hereon, for the purpose
of having this plat recorded as provided by law.
            In witness whereof I (we) have hereunto set my (our) hand(s) and
Seal(s) this      day of                , 20    
                                                               (Seal)
                                                               (Seal)
                     NOTARY CERTIFICATE
            STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
                        ) ss
            County of Tazewell      )
            I                   , a Notary Public in and for said County and
State aforesaid, do hereby certify that (List Names), personally known to me to
be said person(s) whose name(s) is (are) subscribed to the accompanying plat
and certification, each appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged
that he (she) signed and sealed the said plat and certification as his (her)
free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
            Given under my hand and seal this      day of                 ,
20    
                                        
            NOTARY PUBLIC   
   (F)   Surveyor's certificate. The surveyor who prepared the final plat shall
place thereon a certificate of substantially the following wording:
            STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
                        ) ss
            County of Tazewell      )
            This is to certify that I,              , an Illinois Land
Surveyor, No.            , have surveyed and subdivided the property as
described and as shown by the annexed plat, which is a correct representation
of said survey and subdivision. All distances are shown in feet and decimals
thereof.
            Given under my hand and seal at           , Illinois
            this         day of          , A.D., 20    
                                            
            Illinois Land Surveyor
   (G)   Local Health Department certificate. If any part of the platted land
will not be served by a public sewer system the County Health Department is
required to also sign the final plat. The following wording is suggested:
            No public sewer system exists to serve this subdivision. This Plat
is approved with respect to onsite sewage disposal and the acreage involved has
been reviewed in accordance with established soil suitability evaluation
procedures.
                                                   
            Public Health Administrator
   (H)   County Clerk's certificate. The County Clerk shall make a tax search
of the land being subdivided. A certificate is required on all final plats
indicating that any back taxes have been paid. The following wording is
suggested:
            STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
                        ) ss   
            County of Tazewell      )
            I,              , clerk of the aforesaid County, do hereby certify
that I have this day examined the tax records of the property shown on the
attached plat and find no delinquent general taxes, unpaid current general
taxes, nor delinquent special assessments against the tract of land shown on
said plat.
            Given under my hand and the seal of the said County this      day
of           , 20   .
                               
            County Clerk   
   (I)   Plat Officer. A certificate shall be placed on the final plat to be
signed by the County Plat Officer indicating all requirements of the County
Subdivision Regulations and Zoning Code have been met. The following wording is
suggested:
            STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
                        ) ss
            County of Tazewell      )
            I,              , Tazewell County Plat Officer, do hereby certify
that the above plat meets all requirements of the Tazewell County Land
Subdivision Regulations and is hereby approved.
            This      day of              , 20    .
                                                     
            Tazewell County Plat Officer
   (J)   Erosion statement. A statement, similar to the one below, shall be
placed on the final plat recognizing the county's most current Erosion,
Sediment, and Storm Water Control Ordinance.
            Any new construction of the land shown hereon will be required to
adhere to the County Erosion Control Restrictions that are in affect at the
time of said construction.
   (K)   Flood hazard certificate. The surveyor shall determine if any part of
the proposed subdivision lies within a flood hazard area as identified by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. An appropriate certificate shall be placed
on the plat and signed by the surveyor. The following wording is suggested,
depending on which situation exists.
            I certify that this parcel is located in a special flood hazard
area. Zone              , Community Panel                       . Improvements
to this parcel may require special approval.
                                            
            Illinois Land Surveyor
   OR
            I certify that none of the above described property is located in a
flood hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
except as indicated on (Community & Panel No.)
                                            
            Illinois Land Surveyor
(Res. LU-20-10, passed 11-18-2020)
CHAPTER 156: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
Section
   
156.01   Purpose
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Ground mount and roof mount (SES) permitted as an accessory use
   
156.04   Building integrated systems
   
156.05   Community solar gardens
   
156.06   Commercial energy facility
   
156.07   Compliance with Building Code
   
156.08   Liability insurance
   
156.09   Administration and enforcement
   
156.10   Fees charged for building permits
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the construction, installation,
and operation of solar energy systems (SES) in the county in a manner that
promotes economic development and ensures the protection of health, safety, and
welfare while also avoiding adverse impacts to important areas such as
agricultural lands, endangered species habitats, conservation lands, and other
sensitive lands. It is the intent of this chapter to encourage the development
of SESs that reduce reliance on foreign and out-of-state energy resources,
bolster local economic development and job creation. This chapter is not
intended to abridge safety, health or environmental requirements contained in
other applicable codes, standards, or ordinances. The provisions of this
chapter shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or
federal law.
(Ord. LU-17-03, passed 5-31-2017)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY. As applied to a building, structure, or use, one which is on the
same lot with, incidental to and subordinate to the main or principal structure
or use and which is used for purposes customarily incidental to the main or
principal structure, or the main or principal use.
   AGRICULTURAL IMPACT MITIGATION AGREEMENT. The agreement between the facility
owner and the Illinois Mitigation Agreement Department of Agriculture (IDOA)
described herein.
   BUILDING INTEGRATED PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEMS. A solar energy system that
consists of integrating photovoltaic modules into the building structure as the
roof or façade and which does not alter the relief of the roof.
   COLLECTIVE SOLAR. Solar installations owned collectively through subdivision
homeowner associations, college student groups or other similar arrangements.
   COMMERCIAL OPERATION DATE. The calendar date of which the facility owner
notifies the landowner, county, and IDOA in writing that commercial operation
of the facility has commenced. If the facility owner fails to provide such
notifications, the commercial operation date shall be the execution date of
this AIMA plus six months.
   COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY (FACILITY). A solar energy conversion
facility equal to or greater than 500 energy facility (facility) kilowatts in
total nameplate capacity, including a solar energy conversion facility seeking
an extension of a permit to construct granted by a county or municipality
before June 29, 2018. COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY does not include a solar
energy conversion facility:
      (1)   For which a permit to construct has been issued before June 29,
2018;
      (2)   That is located on land owned by the commercial solar energy
facility owner;
      (3)   That was constructed before June 29, 2018; or
      (4)   That is located on the customer side of the customer's electric
meter and is primarily used to offset that customer's electricity load and is
limited in nameplate capacity to less than or equal to 2,000 kilowatts.
   COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY OWNER (FACILITY OWNER). A person or entity
that owns a commercial solar energy facility. A commercial solar energy
facility owner is not nor shall it be deemed to be a public utility as defined
in the Public Utilities Act.
   COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDEN. A community solar-electric (photovoltaic) array,
that provides retail electric power (or financial proxy for retail power) to
multiple households or businesses residing in or located off-site from the
location of the solar energy system. A community solar system may be either an
accessory or principal use.
   DECOMMISSIONING/DECONSTRUCTION. The removal of a facility from the property
of a landowner and the restoration of that property as provided in the AIMA.
   DECOMMISSIONING PLAN. A plan prepared by a professional engineer, at the
facility's expense, that includes:
      (1)   The estimated deconstruction cost, in current dollars at the time
of filing a building permit, for the facility, considering among other things:
         (a)   The number of solar panels, racking, and related facilities
involved;
         (b)   The original construction costs of the facility;
         (c)   the size and capacity, in megawatts of the facility;
         (d)   the salvage value of the facilities (if all interests in salvage
value are subordinate to that of the financial assurance holder if abandonment
occurs);
         (e)   The construction method and techniques for the facility and for
other similar facilities.
      (2)   A comprehensive detailed description of how the facility owner
plans to pay for the deconstruction of the facility.
   FACILITY OWNER. (i) A person with a direct ownership interest in a
commercial solar energy facility, regardless of whether the person is involved
in acquiring the necessary rights, permits, and approvals or otherwise planning
for the construction and operation of the facility; and (ii) at the time the
facility is being developed, a person who is acting as a developer of the
facility by acquiring the necessary rights, permits, and approvals or by
planning for the construction and operation of the facility, regardless of
whether the person will own or operate the facility.
   FINANCIAL ASSURANCE. A reclamation bond or other commercial available
financial assurance that is acceptable to the county, with the county as
primary beneficiary and the landowners as secondary beneficiaries.
   GROUND MOUNT SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is directly
installed into the ground and is not attached or affixed to an existing
structure.
   NET METERING. A billing arrangement that allows solar customers to get
credit for excess electricity that they generate and deliver back to the grid
so that they only pay for their net electricity usage at the end of the month.
   NONPARTICIPATING PROPERTY. Real property that is not a participating
property.
   NONPARTICIPATING RESIDENCE. A residence that is located on nonparticipating
property and that is existing and occupied on the date that an application for
a permit to develop the commercial solar energy facility is filed with the
county.
   OCCUPIED COMMUNITY BUILDING. Any one or more of the following buildings that
is existing and occupied on the date that the application for a permit to
develop the commercial solar energy facility is filed with the county: a
school, place of worship, day care facility, public library, or community
center.
   PARTICIPATING RESIDENCE. A residence that is located on participating
property and that is existing and occupied on the date that an application for
a permit to develop the commercial wind energy facility or the commercial solar
energy facility is filed with the county. "Protected lands" means real property
that is:
      (1)   Subject to a permanent conservation right consistent with the Real
Property Conservation Rights Act; or
      (2)   Registered or designated as a nature preserve, buffer, or land and
water reserve under the Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. A solar energy system that produces electricity by the
use of semiconductor devices calls photovoltaic cells that generate electricity
whenever light strikes them.
   PRIME FARMLAND. Agricultural land comprised of soils that are defined by the
USDA Natural Resources Conservation Services (NRCS) as being "prime" soils
(generally considered the most productive soils with the least input of
nutrients and management).
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer licensed to practice engineering in the
State of Illinois, and who is determined to be qualified to perform the work
described herein by mutual agreement of the county and the "facility owner."
   PROTECTED LANDS. Real property that is subject to a permanent conservation
right consistent with the Real Property Conservation Rights Act; or registered
or designated as a nature preserve, buffer, or land and water reserve under the
Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act.
   QUALIFIED SOLAR INSTALLER. A trained and qualified electrical professional
who has the skills and knowledge related to the construction and operation of
solar electrical equipment and installations and has received safety training
on the hazards involved.
   ROOF MOUNT. A solar energy system in which solar panels are mounted on top
of a building roof as either a flush mounted system or as modules fixed to
frames which can be tilted toward the south at an optical angle.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT (SWCD). A local unit of government that
provides technical and financial assistance to eligible landowners for the
conservation of soil and water resources.
   SOLAR ACCESS. Unobstructed access to direct sunlight on a lot or building
through the entire year, including access across adjacent parcel air rights,
for the purpose of capturing direct sunlight to operate a solar energy system.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, structure or part of a device or structure for
which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical or electrical energy.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). The components and subsystems required to convert
solar energy into electric or thermal energy suitable for use. The area of the
system includes all the land inside the perimeter of the system, which extends
to any fencing. The term applies, but is not limited to, solar photovoltaic
systems, solar thermal systems and solar hot water systems.
   SOLAR STORAGE BATTERY/UNIT. A component of a solar energy device that is
used to store solar generated electricity or heat for later use.
   SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS. Solar thermal systems that directly heat water or
other liquid using sunlight. The heated liquid is used for such purposes as
space heating and cooling, domestic hot water and heating pool water.
   SUPPORTING FACILITIES. The transmission lines, substations, access roads,
storage containers, and equipment associated with the generation and storage of
electricity by the commercial solar energy facility.
   USEFUL LIFE. A "facility" will be presumed to have no remaining "useful
life" if: no electricity is generated for a period of 12 months and the
facility owner is not undertaking reasonable efforts to repair or decommission
the facility or the "facility owner" fails, for a period of 16 consecutive
months, to pay the landowner amounts owed in accordance with the underlying
agreement.
(Ord. LU-17-03, passed 5-31-2017; Res. LU-18-05, passed 4-25-2018; Res. LU-18-
17, passed 10-31-2018; Res. LU-23-10, passed 5-31-2023)
§ 156.03 GROUND MOUNT AND ROOF MOUNT (SES) PERMITTED AS AN ACCESSORY USE.
   Ground mount and roof mount (SES) shall be permitted by a building permit in
all zoning districts where there is a principal structure. An application shall
be submitted to the Community Development Administrator demonstrating
compliance with §§
157.505 through
157.508, in addition to the following requirements below:
   (A)   Height.
      (1)   Building or roof mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed the
maximum allowed height for principal structures in any zoning district.
      (2)   Ground or pole-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 20
feet in height which oriented at maximum tilt.
   (B)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Ground mounted solar energy systems shall meet the accessory
structure setbacks for the zoning district in which the unit is located.
      (2)   Ground mounted solar energy systems shall not extend beyond the
side yard or rear yard setback when oriented at minimum design tilt.
      (3)   In addition to building setbacks, the collector surface and
mounting devises for roof mounted systems shall not extend beyond the exterior
perimeter of the building on which the systems is mounted or built, unless the
collector or mounting system has been engineered to safely extend beyond the
edge, and setback requirements are not violated. Exterior piping for solar hot
water systems shall be allowed to extend beyond the perimeter of the building
on a side yard exposure.
   (C)   Reflection angles. Reflection angles for solar collectors shall be
oriented such that they do not project glare onto adjacent properties.
   (D)   Aviation protection. For solar units located within 500 feet of an
airport or within approach zones of an airport, the applicant shall complete
and provide the results of the solar glaze hazard analysis tool (SGHAT) for the
airport traffic control tower cab and final approach paths, consistent with the
Interim Policy, FAA Review of Solar Energy Projects on Federal Obligated
Airports, or most recent version adopted by the FAA.
   (E)   Visibility. Solar energy systems shall be located in a manner to
reasonably minimize view blockage for surrounding properties and shading of
property to the north while still providing adequate solar access for
collectors.
   (F)   Safety.
      (1)   Roof or building mounted solar energy systems, excluding building
integrated systems, shall allow for adequate roof access for firefighting
purposes to the south facing or flat roof upon which the panels are mounted.
      (2)   Roof or building mounted solar energy systems shall meet the
requirements of the County Building and Property Maintenance Code.
      (3)   All solar energy systems shall be performed by a qualified solar
installer.
      (4)   Any connection to the public utility grid shall be inspected by the
appropriate public utility.
      (5)   All solar energy systems shall be maintained and kept in good
working order. If it is determined by the Community Development Administrator
that a solar energy system is not being maintained, kept in good working order,
or is no longer being utilized to perform its intended for six consecutive
months, the property owner shall be given a 30-day notice for removal of the
unit and all equipment. If the solar energy system is not removed within 30
days, the Community Development Administrator shall issue a notice of violation
and notice to appear before the County Hearing Officer as an ordinance
violation.
   (G)   Approved solar components. Electric solar energy system components
shall have a UL listing or approved equivalent and solar hot water systems
shall have an SRCC rating.
   (H)   Restrictions on solar energy systems limited. Consistent with 765 ILCS
165, no homeowner’s agreement, covenant, common interest community or other
contracts between multiple property owners within a subdivision of
unincorporated county shall prohibit or restrict homeowners from installing
solar energy systems.
(Ord. LU-17-03, passed 5-31-2017; Res. LU-20-02, passed 1-29-2020) Penalty, see
§
156.99
§ 156.04 BUILDING INTEGRATED SYSTEMS.
   Building integrated systems shall be permitted outright in all zoning
districts but shall meet the requirements of the County Building and Property
Maintenance Code.
(Ord. LU-17-03, passed 5-31-2017)
§ 156.05 COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDENS.
   Development of community solar gardens is permitted by special use in all
zoning districts subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   Rooftop gardens permitted. Rooftop gardens are permitted in all zoning
districts where buildings are permitted.
   (B)   Ground mount gardens. Ground mount community solar energy systems must
be less than five acres in total size and require a special use in all
districts. Ground-mount solar developments covering more than five acres shall
be considered a solar farm.
   (C)   Interconnection. An interconnection agreement must be completed with
the electric utility in whose service the territory the system is located.
   (D)   Dimensional standards. All solar garden related structures in newly
platted and existing platted subdivisions shall comply with the principal
structure setback, height and coverage limitations for the district in which
the system is located.
   (E)   Aviation protection. For solar units located within 500 feet of an
airport or within approach zones of an airport, the applicant shall complete
and provide the results of the solar glaze hazard analysis tool (SGHAT) for the
airport traffic control tower cab and final approach paths, consistent with the
Interim Policy, FAA Review of Solar Energy Projects on Federal Obligated
Airports, or most recent version adopted by the FAA.
   (F)   Other standards.
      (1)   Ground mount systems shall comply with all required standards for
structures in the district in which the system is located.
      (2)   All solar gardens shall comply with the County Building and
Maintenance Code.
      (3)   All solar gardens shall comply with §§
157.435 through
157.447.
      (4)   All solar gardens shall also comply with all other state and local
requirements.
      (5)   All community solar gardens shall also comply with the application
submittal detailed in §
156.06(B).
(Ord. LU-17-03, passed 5-31-2017; Res. LU-18-17, passed 10-31-2018) Penalty,
see §
156.99
§ 156.06 COMMERCIAL ENERGY FACILITY.
   (A)   A solar energy conversion facility equal to or greater than 500 energy
facility (facility) kilowatts in total nameplate capacity and that are the
primary use of the lot, designed for providing energy to off-site uses or
export to the wholesale market require a special use in A-1, A-2, I-1 and I-
2 zoning and shall comply with all special use requirements for a Class A
special use request, as specified in the Tazewell County Zoning Code.
      (1)   Special use requirements.
         (a)   The facility owner shall follow the requirements for a Class A
special use request, as specified in the Tazewell County Zoning Code. All other
requirements found herein are not required prior to a request for special use
but encouraged if available, however must be submitted and approved prior to
issuance of siting permit for all commercial solar energy systems.
         (b)   The County Board shall have final approval of all special use
requests for the purpose of siting Solar and related substations and may only
be placed in A-1 and, A-2, 1-1 and 1-2 zoning districts.
         (c)   Prior to the public hearing, the facility owner must have
entered into the Agricultural Impact Mitigation Agreement required by 55 ILCS
5/5-12020(c). The facility owner's compliance with the AIMA shall be a
condition of the special use.
      (2)   A request for special use permit for a commercial solar energy
conversion facility or modification of an approved special use permit, shall be
approved if the request is in compliance with the standards and conditions
imposed in Public Act 102-1123 and conditions imposed under any other state
and/or federal statutes and regulations in addition to those specified herein,
including consideration of the substantive due process requirements of the
Illinois Constitution. sometimes referred to as the LaSalle/Sinclair factors,
as follows:
         (a)   The existing uses and zoning of nearby property;
         (b)   The extent to which property values are diminished by the
particular zoning restrictions;
         (c)   The extent to which the destruction of property values of
plaintiff promotes the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the public;
         (d)   The relative gain to the public as compared to the hardship
imposed upon the individual property owner;
         (e)   The suitability of the subject property for the zoned purposed;
         (f)   The length of time the property has been vacant as zoned
considered in the context of the land development in the area in the vicinity
of the subject property;
         (g)   Whether a comprehensive zoning plan for land use and development
existing, and whether the ordinance is in harmony with it; and
         (h)   Whether the community needs the proposed use.
   (B)   The following information shall also be submitted as part of the
building permit application:
      (1)   Existing conditions. A site plan with existing conditions showing
the following:
         (a)   Existing property lines and property lines extending 100 feet
from the exterior boundaries including the names of adjacent property owners
and the current use of those properties;
         (b)   Existing public and private roads, showing widths of the road
and any associated easements;
         (c)   Location and size of any abandoned wells and sewage treatment
systems;
         (d)   Existing buildings and impervious surfaces;
         (e)   A contour map showing topography at two-foot intervals. A
contour map of surrounding properties may also be required;
         (f)   Existing vegetation (list type and percent of coverage: such as,
cropland/plowed fields, grassland, wooded areas and the like);
         (g)   Any delineated wetland boundaries;
         (h)   A copy of the current FEMA FIRM maps that shows the subject
property including the one hundred year floor elevation and any regulated flood
protection elevation, if available;
         (i)   Surface water drainage patterns; and
         (j)   The location of any subsurface drainage tiles.
      (2)   Proposed conditions. A site plan of proposed conditions showing the
following:
         (a)   Location and spacing of the solar panels;
         (b)   Location of access roads;
         (c)   Location of underground or overhead electric lines connecting
the solar farm to a building, substation or other electric load; and
         (d)   New electrical equipment other than at the existing building or
substation that is to be the connection point for the solar farm.
      (3)   Fencing and weed/grass control.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit an acceptable pollinator friendly
plan for property inside and outside the fenced area for the entire property.
The facility owner shall work with SWCD to determine appropriate vegetation for
the existing soils. The operating company or successor during the operation of
the solar farm shall adhere to the pollinator friendly plan.
         (b)   The facility owner shall provide for weed control in a manner
that prevents the spread of weeds. Chemical control, if used, shall be done by
an appropriately licensed pesticide applicator.
         (c)   The facility owner shall be responsible for the reimbursement of
all reasonable costs incurred by owners of agricultural land where it has been
determined by the appropriate state or county entity that weeds have spread
from the facility to their property. Reimbursement is contingent upon written
notice to the facility owner. Facility owner shall reimburse the property owner
within 45 days after notice is received.
         (d)   The facility owner shall ensure that all vegetation growing
within the perimeter of the facility is properly and appropriately maintained.
Maintenance may include, but not be limited to, mowing, trimming, chemical
control, or the use of livestock as agreed to by the landowner.
         (e)   The deconstruction plans must include provisions for the removal
of all weed control equipment used in the facility, including weed-control
fabrics or other ground covers.
         (f)   A commercial solar energy facility to be sited so that the
facility's perimeter is enclosed by fencing having a height of at least seven
feet and no more than 25 feet.
         (g)   Perimeter fencing having a maximum height of eight feet shall be
installed around the boundary of the solar farm. The fence shall contain
appropriate warning signage that is posted such that it is clearly visible on
the site.
         (h)   The applicant shall maintain the fence and adhere to the
pollinator friendly plan. If the operating company does not adhere to the
proposed plan, a fine of $500 per week will be assessed until the operating
company or successor complies with the pollinator friendly plan and fencing
requirements.
      (4)   Manufactures specifications. The manufacturer’s specifications and
recommended installation methods for all major equipment, including solar
panels, mounting systems and foundations for poles and racks.
      (5)   Connection and interconnection.
         (a)   A description of the method of connecting the solar array to a
building or substation.
         (b)   Utility interconnection details and a copy of written
notification to the utility company requesting the proposed interconnection.
      (6)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Occupied community buildings -150 feet from the nearest point on
the outside wall of the structure.
         (b)   Nonparticipating dwellings - 150 feet from the nearest point on
the outside wall of the structure.
         (c)   Public road rights-of-way - 50 feet from the nearest edge.
         (d)   Boundary lines of nonparticipating property - 50 feet to the
nearest point on the property line of the nonparticipating property.
         (e)   The requirements set forth in this division may be waived
subject to the written consent of the owner of each affected nonparticipating
property.
      (7)   Height. A commercial solar energy facility to be sited so that no
component of a solar panel has a height of more than 20 feet above ground when
the solar energy facility's arrays are at full tilt.
      (8)   Aviation protection. For solar energy systems located within 500
feet of an airport or within approach zones of an airport, the applicant shall
complete and provide the results of the solar glaze hazard analysis tool
(SGHAT) for the airport traffic control tower cab and final approach paths,
consistent with the Interim Policy, FAA Review of Solar Energy Projects on
Federal Obligated Airports, or most recent version adopted by the FAA.
      (9)   Fire protection. The facility owner shall coordinate with the local
fire districts by:
         (a)   Submitting to the local fire department(s) a copy of the project
site plan;
         (b)   Working cooperatively with the fire district(s) having
jurisdiction to develop the fire emergency response plan. The facility owner
shall cover the expense of any additional training agreed upon to be necessary
by the facility owner and fire district. The facility owner shall, upon
approval and prior to building permit issuance, submit the Emergency Response
Plan and the contact information of the representative of the fire district(s)
who has approved the plan. Nothing in this section shall alleviate the need to
comply with all other applicable fire laws and regulations.
      (10)   Endangered species and wetlands. Solar farm developers shall
provide the results and recommendation from the consultation with the Illinois
Department of Natural Resources (IDNR) through the Department’s online EcoCat
Program. Areas reviewed through this process will be endangered species and
wetlands. The cost of the EcoCat consultation shall be borne by the developer.
      (11)   Road use agreements. All routes on either a county or township
road that will be used for the construction and maintenance purposes shall be
identified on the site plan. All routes for either egress or ingress need to be
shown. The routing shall be approved subject to the approval of the County
Highway Engineer in coordination with the Township Road Commissioners. The
solar farm developer shall complete and provide a preconstruction baseline
survey to determine existing road conditions for assessing potential future
damage due to development related traffic. The development shall provide a road
repair plan to ameliorate any and all damage, installation or replacement of
roads that might be required by the developer. The developer shall provide a
letter of credit or surety bond in an amount and form approved by the highway/
road officials when warranted.
      (12)   The facility owner shall provide results of the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service's Information for Planning and Consulting environmental
review or a comparable successor tool that is consistent with the "U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service's Land-Based Wind Energy Guidelines."
      (13)   The facility owner shall demonstrate avoidance of protected lands
as identified by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources and the Illinois
Nature Preserve Commission or consider the recommendations of the Illinois
Department of Natural Resources for setbacks from protected lands, including
areas identified by the Illinois Nature Preserve Commission.
      (14)   The facility owner shall provide evidence of consultation with the
Illinois State Historic Preservation Office to assess potential impacts on
state-registered historic sites under the Illinois State Agency Historic
Resources Preservation Act.
      (15)   Noise levels. Noise levels shall be regulated by the Illinois
Pollution Control Board rules and regulations and the applicant shall certify
that applicant's facility is in compliance with the same.
      (16)   Waste. All solid wastes, whether generated from supplies,
equipment parts, packaging, operation or maintenance of the WECS, including old
parts and equipment, shall be removed from the site immediately and disposed of
in an appropriate manner. All hazardous waste generated by the operation and
maintenance of the WECS including, but not limited to, lubricating materials,
shall be removed from the site immediately and disposed of in a manner
consistent with all local, state, and federal rules and regulations.
      (17)   Drainage tile. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a
facility owner with siting approval from a county to construct a commercial
wind energy facility is authorized to cross or impact a drainage system,
including, but not limited to, drainage tiles, open drainage districts,
culverts, and water gathering vaults, owned or under the control of a drainage
district under the Illinois Drainage Code without obtaining prior agreement or
approval from the drainage district, except that the facility owner shall
repair or pay for the repair of any damage to the drainage system, in a manner
that assures the tile line's proper operation at the point of repair, caused by
the construction or deconstruction of the commercial wind energy facility
within a reasonable time after construction of the commercial wind energy
facility. The following shall apply to the tile line repair:
         (a)   The facility owner or their designee(s) will work with the
landowner to identify the tile lines traversing the property included within
the underlying agreement which will be crossed or disturbed by the construction
of the facility. All tile lines identified in this manner will be shown on the
construction and deconstruction plans and staked or flagged in the locations
where expected crossing or disturbance is anticipated prior to construction or
deconstruction to alert construction and deconstruction crews to the possible
need for tile line repairs.
         (b)   Tile lines that are damaged, cut, or removed shall be staked or
flagged placed in such a manner they will remain visible until the permanent
repairs are completed. In addition, the location of damaged drain tile lines
will be recorded using global positioning systems (GPS) technology.
         (c)   Temporary repair shall be made by the facility owner, their
designee or the property owner until such time any of the aforementioned
parties can make permanent repairs. If the tile lines are dry and water is not
flowing, temporary repairs are not required if the permanent repairs can be
made by any of those parties previously mentioned within 14 days (weather and
soil conditions permitting) of the time damage occurred: however, the exposed
tile lines will be screened or otherwise protected to prevent the entry of
foreign materials or animals into the tile lines.
         (d)   Where tile lines are severed by an excavation trench, repairs
shall be made using the IDOA Drain Tile Repairs or as to agree to with the
landowner.
         (e)   If there is any dispute between the landowner and the facility
owner on the method of permanent tile line repair, the appropriate Soil and
Water Conservation District's opinion shall be considered by the facility owner
and the landowner.
         (f)   To the extent practicable, there will be a minimum of one foot
of separation between the tile line and the underground cable whether the
underground cable passes over or under the tile line. If the tile line was
damaged as part of the excavation for installation of the underground cable,
the underground cable will be installed with a minimum one foot clearance under
or over the tile line to be repaired or otherwise to the extent practicable.
         (g)   The original tile line alignment and gradient shall be
maintained. A laser transit shall be used to ensure the proper gradient is
maintained. A laser operated tiling machine shall be used to install or replace
tiling segments of 100 linear feet or more unless otherwise agreed to with the
landowner.
         (h)   During construction stage, all permanent tile line repairs must
be made within 14 days of identification or notification of the damage, weather
and soil conditions permitting. At other times, such repairs must be made at a
time mutually agreed upon by the facility owner and the landowner.
         (i)   Following construction maintenance and/or decommissioning
activities, the facility owner will utilize best practices to restore the
drainage in the area to the condition it was before the commencement of the
construction/decommissioning activities or those methods agreed to between the
landowner and the facility owner. If the landowner and the facility owner
cannot agree upon a reasonable method to complete this restoration. The
facility owner may - but is not required to - implement the recommendations of
the appropriate county SWCD and such implementation would resolve the dispute.
         (j)   Following completion of the work, the facility owner will be
responsible for correcting or paying for the correction of all tile line
repairs that fail due to construction maintenance and/or decommissioning,
provided any such failure was identified by the landowner within 24 months
after construction or decommissioning. The facility owner will not be
responsible for tile line repairs that the facility owner pays the landowner to
perform. The facility owner will not be responsible for tile line repairs that
the facility owner pays the landowner to perform.
      (18)   Decommissioning plans and financial assurance of commercial solar
energy facilities.
         (a)   Decommissioning of a facility shall include the removal/
disposition of all solar related equipment/facilities. including the following
utilized for operation of the facility and located on landowner property:
            1.   Solar panels, cells and modules;
            2.   Solar panel mounts and racking, including any helical piles,
ground screws. ballasts. or other anchoring systems;
            3.   Solar panel foundations, if used (to depth of five feet);
            4.   Transformers, inverters, energy storage facilities, or
substations, including all components and foundations; however, underground
cables at a depth of five feet or greater may be left in place;
            5.   Overhead collection system components;
            6.   Operations/maintenance buildings, spare parts buildings and
substation/switching gear buildings unless otherwise agreed to by the
landowner;
            7.   Access road(s) unless landowner requests in writing that the
access road is to remain;
            8.   Operation/maintenance yard/staging area unless otherwise
agreed to by the landowner; and
            9.   Debris and litter generated by deconstruction and
deconstruction crews.
         (b)   The facility owner shall, at its expense, completely
decommission of a facility within 12 months after the end of the useful life of
the facility.
         (c)   1.   Prior to issuance of the county building permit, the
facility owner shall have the approval of the decommissioning plan and required
financial assurance.
            2.   Financial assurance to cover the estimated costs of
decommissioning of the commercial solar energy facility shall be at 100% of the
cost estimate submitted and approved by the county. Financial assurance shall
be made in the form of a surety or like bond and revaluated every four years
for economic relevance. Said revaluation must be performed by an independent
third party professional engineer licensed in the State of Illinois and
provided for review by the county. Should the county find reason to disagree
with the revaluation, the county shall retain the services of an additional
State of Illinois Licensed Professional Engineer, at the cost of the facility
owner. Based on any revaluation, the county may require changes in the level of
financial assurance used to calculate the phased coverages. After all available
decommissioning funds have been utilized the property owner of record is
responsible for any remaining cost to complete the decommissioning plan.
            3.   The financial assurance shall not release the surety from
liability until the financial assurance is replaced. The salvage value of the
facility may only be used to reduce the estimated costs of decommissioning in
the plan if the county agrees that all interests in the salvage value are
subordinate or have been subordinated to that of the county if abandonment
occurs.
            4.   The county shall require the revaluation of the estimated
costs of decommissioning of any commercial solar energy facility following the
fourth year of operation and every four years following. for the operational
life of the facility.
            5.   Upon abandonment, a period of 12 months following the
facility's end of life usefulness, the county may take all appropriate actions
for decommissioning, including, drawing upon the financial assurance.
(Ord. LU-17-03, passed 5-31-2017; Res. LU-18-05, passed 4-25-2018; Res. LU-18-
21, passed 11-14-2018; Res. LU-23-10, passed 5-31-2023) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.07 COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING CODE.
   All solar energy systems shall comply with the County Building and
Maintenance Code, as well as all federal and state requirements.
(Ord. LU-17-03, passed 5-31-2017)
§ 156.08 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The owner operator of the solar farm shall maintain a current general
liability policy covering bodily injury and property damage and name the county
as an additional insured with limits of at least $2,000,000 per occurrence and
$5,000,000 in the aggregate with a deductible of no more than $5,000.
(Ord. LU-17-03, passed 5-31-2017)
§ 156.09 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Community Development Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this
section through an inspection of the solar farm every year. The Community
Development Administrator is hereby granted the power and authority to enter
upon the premises of the solar farm at any time by coordinating a reasonable
time with the operator/owner of the facility.
(Ord. LU-17-03, passed 5-31-2017)
§ 156.10 FEES CHARGED FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
    The fees for processing the applications for building permits shall be
collected by the Community Development Administrator who shall be accountable
to the county for such fees as follows:
 
0 - 10 kilowatts (kW)        $200
11 - 50 kilowatts (kW)       $350
51 - 100 kilowatts (kW)      $500
101 - 500 kilowatts (kW)     $1,000
501 - 1,000 kilowatts (kW)   $3,000
1,001 - 2,000 kilowatts (kW) $5,000
Over 2,000 kilowatts (kW)    $5,000 +
                             $100 per 100kW or a fraction thereof
 
(Ord. LU-17-03, passed 5-31-2017; Res. LU-18-13, passed 8-29-2018; Res. LU-22-
06, passed 7-27-2022; Res. LU-23-10, passed 5-31-2023)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   All complaints should be made directly to the operation facility
manager or their designee. Contact information for the facility should be
publicly accessible via a facility website and at the point of access to each
site.
   (B)   The cost of investigation into any non-compliance of the approved
special use or the permitted equipment throughout the life of the project shall
be on the burden of the facility owner and all costs of said investigation
shall be incurred by the facility owner.
   (C)   Any person, firm or cooperation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, refuses to comply with, or resists enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter may face fines of not less than $25 nor more than
$500 for each offense or revocation of the special use as approved.
(Ord. LU-17-03, passed 5-31-2017; Res. LU-23-10, passed 5-31-2023)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Purpose
   
157.002   Intent
   
157.003   Scope
   
157.004   Rules of construction
   
157.005   Definitions
   
157.006   Rules for boundaries
   
157.007   Rule for disconnected territory
Establishment and Regulation of Official Zoning Map and Districts
   
157.020   Establishment of districts
   
157.021   Official zoning maps
   
157.022   Detail area maps
   
157.023   Amendments to zoning maps
   
157.024   Display of official maps
District Regulations and Standards
   
157.035   Uniformity of application
   
157.036   General requirement
   
157.037   Effect on existing agreements
   
157.038   Existing violations
   
157.039   Agricultural exemption
   
157.040   Public utility exemption
   
157.041   Lot division
   
157.042   Lot depth
   
157.043   Main structures and uses
   
157.044   Minimum floor areas of a dwelling
   
157.045   Number of buildings permitted per lot
   
157.046   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses
   
157.047   Height
   
157.048   Setback lines
   
157.049   Fencing
   
157.050   Swimming pools
   
157.051   Driveways
   
157.052   Home occupations
   
157.053   Zero lot line duplex
   
157.054   Recreational vehicles
   
157.055   Accessory dwellings
   
157.056   Outdoor lighting
   
157.057   Yards
   
157.058   Contiguous parcels
   
157.059   Open storage of junk
   
157.060   Chickens/fowl
Land Use Matrix
   
157.070   Land uses
   
157.071   Key to land use matrix
   
157.072   Matrix
   
157.073   Bulk chart
(A-1) Agricultural Preservation District
   
157.085   Purpose
   
157.086   Permitted uses
   
157.087   Special uses
   
157.088   Minimum lot sizes
   
157.089   Minimum lot width
   
157.090   Frontage
   
157.091   Minimum setbacks
   
157.092   Height
(A-2) Agricultural District
   
157.105   Purpose
   
157.106   Permitted uses
   
157.107   Special uses
   
157.108   Minimum lot sizes
   
157.109   Minimum lot width
   
157.110   Frontage
   
157.111   Minimum setbacks
   
157.112   Height
(RR) Rural residential District
   
157.125   Purpose
   
157.126   Permitted uses
   
157.127   Special uses
   
157.128   Minimum lot sizes
   
157.129   Minimum lot width
   
157.130   Minimum setbacks
   
157.131   Lot coverage
   
157.132   Height
(R-1) Low Density Residential District
   
157.145   Purpose
   
157.146   Permitted uses
   
157.147   Special uses
   
157.148   Minimum lot sizes
   
157.149   Minimum lot width
   
157.150   Minimum setbacks
   
157.151   Lot coverage
   
157.152   Height
(R-2) Multi-Family Residential District
   
157.165   Purpose
   
157.166   Permitted uses
   
157.167   Special uses
   
157.168   Minimum lot sizes
   
157.169   Minimum lot width
   
157.170   Minimum setbacks
   
157.171   Lot coverage
   
157.172   Height
(C-1) Neighborhood Commercial District
   
157.185   Purpose
   
157.186   Permitted uses
   
157.187   Special uses
   
157.188   Minimum lot sizes
   
157.189   Minimum lot width
   
157.190   Minimum setbacks
   
157.191   Lot coverage
   
157.192   Height
(C-2) General Business Commercial District
   
157.205   Purpose
   
157.206   Permitted uses
   
157.207   Special uses
   
157.208   Minimum lot sizes
   
157.209   Minimum lot width
   
157.210   Minimum setbacks
   
157.211   Lot coverage
   
157.212   Height
(I-1) Light Industrial District
   
157.225   Purpose
   
157.226   Permitted uses
   
157.227   Special uses
   
157.228   Minimum lot sizes
   
157.229   Minimum lot width
   
157.230   Minimum setbacks
   
157.231   Lot coverage
   
157.232   Height
(I-2) Heavy Industrial District
   
157.245   Purpose
   
157.246   Permitted uses
   
157.247   Special uses
   
157.248   Minimum lot sizes
   
157.249   Minimum lot width
   
157.250   Minimum setbacks
   
157.251   Lot coverage
   
157.252   Height
Conservation District
   
157.265   Purpose
   
157.266   Permitted uses
   
157.267   Special uses
   
157.268   Minimum lot sizes
   
157.269   Minimum lot width
   
157.270   Frontage
   
157.271   Minimum setbacks
   
157.272   Height
Temporary Uses
   
157.285   Temporary use permit required
   
157.286   Application
   
157.287   Permitted temporary uses
Screening Requirements
   
157.300   Purpose
   
157.301   Screening
   
157.302   Maintenance
Off-street Parking and Loading Requirements
   
157.315   Purpose
   
157.316   General provisions
   
157.317   Off-street parking
   
157.318   Off-street loading
Signs
   
157.330   Purpose
   
157.331   Definitions
   
157.332   Application and fees
   
157.333   Permitted signs
   
157.334   Prohibited signs
   
157.335   Signs permitted in the agriculture and residential districts
   
157.336   On-premises signs permitted in the commercial and industrial
districts
   
157.337   Location restrictions
   
157.338   Setbacks
   
157.339   Height
   
157.340   Illumination standards
   
157.341   Off-premises signs
   
157.342   Non-conforming signs
Communication Facilities
   
157.355   Purpose
   
157.356   Authority
   
157.357   Definitions
   
157.358   Communication facilities permitted
   
157.359   Application for building permit
   
157.360   Communication facilities by special use
   
157.361   Application for special use
   
157.362   Evaluation of special use
   
157.363   Enforcement
Manufactured/Mobile Home Parks
   
157.375   Purpose
   
157.376   Application
   
157.377   Development standards for manufactured/mobile home parks
   
157.378   Utilities and required services
   
157.379   Solid waste disposal
   
157.380   Electrical distribution system
   
157.381   Telegraph service and television systems
   
157.382   Fire protection
   
157.383   Service buildings and other community facilities
   
157.384   Building permits
Planned Unit Developments
   
157.395   Purpose
   
157.396   General
   
157.397   Procedures and requirements for establishment of a planned unit
development
   
157.398   Property control
   
157.399   General development provisions
   
157.400   Review and evaluation
   
157.401   Amendment of a planned unit development special use
Variances
   
157.415   Purpose
   
157.416   Authority
   
157.417   Application for variance
   
157.418   Standards for variances
   
157.419   Conditions
   
157.420   Action by Zoning Board of Appeals
   
157.421   Action by Land Use Committee
   
157.422   Action by County Board
   
157.423   Fees
Special Uses
   
157.435   Purpose
   
157.436   General requirements
   
157.437   Application procedure
   
157.438   Standards applicable to special uses
   
157.439   Particular special uses
   
157.440   Requirements for particular special uses
   
157.441   Conditions
   
157.442   Action by Zoning Board of Appeals
   
157.443   Action by Land Use Committee
   
157.444   Action by County Board
   
157.445   Fees
   
157.446   Implementation and cessation
   
157.447   Revocation
Text and Map Amendments
   
157.460   Purpose
   
157.461   Amendments
   
157.462   Application
   
157.463   Evaluation by ZBA
   
157.464   Standards for amendments
   
157.465   Action by Zoning Board of Appeals
   
157.466   Action by Land Use Committee
   
157.467   Action by the County Board
   
157.468   Fees
Application and Hearing Procedures
   
157.480   Application
   
157.481   Notice of public hearing; publication
   
157.482   Notice to adjoining property owners
   
157.483   Notice to interested governmental bodies
   
157.484   Conduct of a hearing
   
157.485   Duties of the Community Development Administrator and Land Use
Planner
   
157.486   Exhibits
   
157.487   Continuance
   
157.488   Failure to appear
   
157.489   Record of hearing
   
157.490   Contracts outside of the hearing
   
157.491   Action by the Zoning Board of Appeals
   
157.492   Resubmission of denied request
Community Development Administrator
   
157.505   General
   
157.506   Creation and appointment
   
157.507   Jurisdiction, authority, and duties
   
157.508   Additional duties concerning flood insurance studies
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
157.520   Creation
   
157.521   Appointment, terms, residency, removal, and vacancies
   
157.522   ZBA; powers and duties
   
157.523   Powers and duties of the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
   
157.524   Conflict
   
157.525   Quorum and meetings
   
157.526   Order of business
   
157.527   Secretary, minutes and records
   
157.528   Legal consultant
Land Use Committee
   
157.540   Creation
   
157.541   Purpose
Building Permit
   
157.555   General requirement
   
157.556   Basis for issuance
   
157.557   When permit required
   
157.558   Exemptions
   
157.559   Application for building permit
   
157.560   Issuance of a building permit
   
157.561   Denial of a building permit
   
157.562   Fees
   
157.563   Conspicuous posting
   
157.564   Changes to approved permits
   
157.565   Expiration of building permit
   
157.566   Revocation of building permit
   
157.567   Stop work order
   
157.568   Entry and inspection of land and buildings
   
157.569   Fee for failure to obtain building permit prior to construction
   
157.570   Enforcement
Certificate of Occupancy
   
157.585   Requirement of certificate of occupancy
   
157.586   When certificate required
   
157.587   Procedures for issuance of a certificate of occupancy
   
157.588   Temporary certificate of occupancy
   
157.589   Failure to obtain certificate of occupancy
Fee Schedule
   
157.600   Fees charged for building permits
   
157.601   Fees charged for public hearings
   
157.602   Refunds
   
157.603   Exemptions
Appeals
   
157.615   Purpose
   
157.616   Notice of appeal
   
157.617   Stay of proceedings
   
157.618   Review and public hearing
   
157.619   Standards and decision by Zoning Board of Appeals
   
157.620   Fees
   
157.621   Appeals of administrative decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals
Non-Conformities
   
157.635   Description
   
157.636   Statement of intent
   
157.637   Enlargement, expansion, and extension prohibited
   
157.638   When rights of conforming use or structure granted
   
157.639   Non-conforming lots of record
   
157.640   Non-conforming uses of land
   
157.641   Non-conforming structures
   
157.642   Non-conforming uses of structures
   
157.643   Repairs and maintenance
 
   
157.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/5-12001 et seq., the county’s zoning ordinance is
adopted for the purpose of:
   (A)   Promoting the public health, safety, morals, comfort, and general
welfare;
   (B)   Conserving the value of land, buildings, and structures throughout the
county;
   (C)   Lessening and avoiding congestion on the public streets and highways;
   (D)   Avoiding hazards to persons and damage to property resulting from
flooding;
   (E)   Regulating and limiting the height and bulk of buildings and
structures hereafter to be erected;
   (F)   Securing adequate light, pure air, and safety from fire and other
dangers;
   (G)   Classifying, regulating, and restricting the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings, structures, and land zoned for
specified industrial, commercial, residential, and other uses;
   (H)   Establishing regulations and standards to which buildings, structures,
or uses therein shall conform;
   (I)   Prohibiting uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts; and
   (J)   Implementing the policies and proposals of the county’s comprehensive
land use plan.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-1(a))
§ 157.002 INTENT.
   The intent of the county is to work cooperatively with all interested
branches of government including, but not limited to, the state’s Department of
Transportation, the state’s Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources, the United States Army Corps of Engineers, County Soil and Water
Conservation District, County Farm Bureau, and the County Health Department to
aid in the harmonious, orderly, and progressive development of the county. It
is also the intent of the county to work cooperatively with its neighboring
counties and municipal governments so as to foster the integrated,
comprehensive, and equitable development of the county.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-1(b))
§ 157.003 SCOPE.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way
impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws, ordinances, or
resolutions, except those specifically repealed by the chapter or amendments
hereto, or with private restrictions placed upon property by covenant, deed, or
other private agreement, or with restrictive covenants running with the land to
which the county is a party. Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction
upon land, building, or structures than is imposed or required by such existing
provisions of law, ordinance, resolution, contract, or deed, the provisions of
this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-1(c))
§ 157.004 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The following rules shall apply in the construction and interpretation of
this chapter and of the terms used herein:
   (A)   The present tense includes the future tense;
   (B)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter;
   (C)   The singular number includes the plural and vice versa;
   (D)   The word SHALL is always mandatory, the word MAY is always permissive;
   (E)   The word PERSON includes a partnership, association, firm, trust,
club, company, or corporation as well as the individual;
   (F)   The word USED or OCCUPIED or LOCATED, as applied to any land,
building, use, structure, or premise, shall be construed to include the words
“intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied or located”;
   (G)   The word LOT shall include the words “plot” and “parcel”; and
   (H)   Any use of land which is not explicitly allowed under this code shall
be considered to be allowed under that category of described use to which it is
most analogous.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-2(a))
§ 157.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS. A way or means of approach to provide physical entrance to a
property.
   ACCESSORY. As applied to a building, structure, or use, one which is on the
same lot with, incidental to and subordinate to, the main or principal
structure or use and which is used for purposes customarily incidental to the
main or principal structure, or the main or principal use.
   ACRE. 43,560 square feet.
   ADDITIONS. Those construction activities which involve adding area to the
ground coverage of a building or structure or adding to its height and volume.
   ADJOINING LOT OR PARCEL. A lot or parcel of land which shares all or part of
a common lot line with another lot or parcel of land and which is not separated
by a publicly dedicated right-of-way.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial establishment such as, but
not limited to: adult cabarets; adult store; adult theater; body shop or model
studio; and massage establishment.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (PA 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (PA101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it maybe amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   AGRICULTURALLY-RELATED BUSINESS. A business activity related to agriculture
that includes, but is not limited to: anhydrous ammonia facilities; fertilizer
production, sales, storage, mixing and distribution; grain drying and storage;
grain elevators; agricultural production and distribution of agricultural
products; repair and sale of farm implements; and sale of feed or sod. An
AGRICULTURALLY RELATED BUSINESS shall not include the processing of cannabis or
production of cannabis-infused products as defined by the Illinois Cannabis
Regulations and Tax Act.
   AGRICULTURE. Activities customarily engaged in by persons in the business of
farming and constitutes the principal activity of land which includes the
planting, growing, production, harvesting, keeping, or maintenance, for lease
or personal use of: beekeeping; dairying and grazing; egg production; field
crops; fish or fur farming; floriculture; greenhouses/nurseries (non-
commercial); horticulture; hydroponics; livestock raising; orchards; paddocks;
poultry raising; sod farming; truck farming; viticulture; and other similar or
closely related activities. Farm buildings for protecting or storing farm
equipment or machinery. AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES include, without limitation, the
growing, developing, processing, conditioning, or selling of hybrid seed corn,
seed beans, seed oats, or other farm seeds. AGRICULTURE shall not include the
cultivation of cannabis as defined by the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act.
   AGRITAINMENT/AGRITOURISM. A commercial operation in conjunction with a
working farm for the recreation, education, enjoyment and entertainment of
visitors that involves agriculturally based operation and activities on
agricultural property, as defined in § 3-35 of the Use Tax Act. AGRITAINMENT/
AGRITOURISM activities include, but are not limited to: historic, cultural, and
on-site educational programs; guided and self-guided tours; petting zoos; crop
mazes; U-pick operations; farm-related gift shop; estate distilling and
winemaking; horseback or pony rides; and hayrides or sleigh rides. Accessory
uses may include the sale of food and refreshment for consumption on site.
AGRITOURISM/AGRITAINMENT does not include the following activities: hunting;
fishing; amusement rides; rodeos; off-road biking or motorized off-highway or
all-terrain vehicle activities; boating, swimming, canoeing, hiking, camping,
skiing, bounce houses, or similar activities; or entertainment venues such as
weddings or concerts.
   AIRPORT, COMMERCIAL. Any area of land, water, or both, used for the landing
and departure of aircraft, intended for a profit, whether or not facilities are
provided for the shelter, servicing, or repair of aircraft, or for receiving or
discharging passengers or cargo, and all appurtenant areas used or suitable for
airport buildings or other airport facilities.
   AIRPORT, RESTRICTED LANDING AREA. Any area of land, water, or both, which is
used or is made available for the landing and departure of aircraft and which
is not used for commercial purpose.
   AMENDMENT, ZONING. A change of the zoning district that is applied to a lot
or parcel of land or change in the text of this chapter.
   ANIMALS, DOMESTIC. Animals that are customarily kept for personal use or
enjoyment within the home. DOMESTIC ANIMALS shall include, but not limited to,
domestic dogs, domestic cats, domestic tropical birds, or rodents.
   ANIMALS, EXOTIC. Animals not indigenous to this country.
   ANIMALS, FARM. The species of fowl, ovine, caprine, bovine, porcine, and
equine that have been domesticated for agricultural purposes.
   ANIMAL UNITS. A term used to establish an equivalent density for various
species of livestock.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple- or two-family dwelling
which is arranged, designed, used, or intended to be used as a single
housekeeping unit. Permanently installed kitchen, bath, and toilet facilities
are included within each apartment.
   AREA, LOT. The total area within the lot lines.
   ARENA, EQUINE ENCLOSED. A building or structure housing a platform, ring,
arena, or the like, used for equine-related activities for pleasure, training,
competition, exhibitions, demonstration, sale, or therapeutic riding for the
disabled.
   ARTERIAL. See STREET, ARTERIAL.
   ASPHALT BATCHING PLANT. A facility used for the production of bituminous
substances used for paving.
   ATHLETIC FIELD. An open area of land wherein facilities are provided for
athletic sports or activities.
   AUDITORIUM.  A building or structure used for public gatherings or meetings.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding, or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles, or trailers; collision services including: body;
frame; or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop; or
vehicle steam cleaning.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR MINOR. The business of mechanical repair work and
servicing of automobiles, including fast service, tune up, and lubricating
facilities, but specifically excluding body work or painting.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building or lot used for the maintenance of
automobiles, including the sale and installation of tires, batteries and other
minor accessories, and services for automobiles such as automobile minor
repair. Uses may also include the dispensing, selling, or offering for retail
sale, gasoline, kerosene, lubricating oil, or grease. This may include
buildings or structures that are used for the retail sale and direct delivery
to motor vehicles of cigarettes, candy, soft drinks, and other related items
for the convenience of the motoring public. Such establishments shall not
include facilities for major automobile repair or the sale or storage of new or
used automobiles or trailers.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. Any place where inoperable motor vehicles or the
parts thereof, or any other inoperable motor machinery or parts thereof, are
stored in the open and are not being restored to operation; or, any land,
building, or structure used for the wrecking or storing of such  motor vehicles
or machinery, of the parts thereof. The presence on any lot or parcel of land
of two or more inoperable motor vehicles or pieces of machinery which, for a
period of 15 days, have not been capable of operating under their own power and
from which parts have been or are to be removed shall constitute prima facie
evidence of an automobile wrecking yard.
   AUTOMOBILE, CAR WASH. A building or structure containing facilities for
washing automobiles, automatically and/or manually.
   AUTOMOBILE, SALES. The use of any building, land area, or other premises for
the display and sale of new or used automobiles, trucks or vans, trailers, or
recreational vehicles, including any warranty repair work or other repair
service conducted as an accessory use.
   AUTOMOBILE, SERVICING AND PARTS. The use of any building, land area, or
other premises for the sale and installation of parts such as tires, batteries,
mufflers, and brakes; routine maintenance such as oil change and lubrication;
or other incidental repair; but excludes the outdoor storage of damaged
vehicles.
   BACKFILL. Materials used to refill a ditch or other excavation, or the
process of doing so.
   BANQUET FACILITY. An establishment that is rented by individuals or groups
and is intended and designed to accommodate private (by invitation only)
functions, including, but not limited to, banquets, weddings, anniversaries,
conferences, business meetings, and similar events.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-year flood.
   BASEMENT (CELLAR). The lower level of a structure partly or wholly
underground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An owner-occupied dwelling unit having not more than five
guest rooms where lodging, with or without meals, is provided to the public for
compensation.
   BERM. An earth mound that is designed to control and divert surface runoff
or which is designed to serve as a visual buffer.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines, or waterways.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter, or protection of persons, animals, or property.
   BUILDING LINE. A line usually parallel to the front, side, or rear lot line
set so as to provide the required yards for a building or structure.
   BUILDING WRECKING YARD. An open area where collapsed buildings, or the
material (s) remaining after building demolition, including mobile homes and
recreational vehicles, are being stored in the open and are not being restored
to a useable and/or safe condition; or any land, building, or structure used
for the wrecking/demolition of buildings and mobile homes and recreational
vehicles.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building which is designed, used, or intended to be
occupied and maintained for the principal use of the land on which it is
located.
   CABIN, COTTAGE, SUMMER COTTAGE, RECREATION CABIN. A dwelling unit designed
for temporary seasonal occupancy that is not used for more than six months in
any given year.
   CAMP. Any land, including buildings, structures, or camping units, used for
assembly or temporary occupancy by persons which may provide outdoor recreation
facilities.
   CAMPGROUNDS. A plot of ground upon which two or more campsites are located,
established, or maintained for occupancy by camping units of the general public
as temporary living quarters for recreation, education, and vacation purposes.
   CAMPING UNIT. Any tent, trailer, cabin, lean-to, recreational vehicle, or
similar structure constructed, erected, or maintained or operated in a
campground as temporary living quarters for recreation, education, or vacation
purposes.
   CAMP, DAY. A camp not providing overnight accommodations.
   CANNABIS. Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are identified as
including any parts of the plant cannabis sativa and including derivatives or
subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not;
the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction; however, CANNABIS does not include mature stalks of
the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of
the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it), fiber,
oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination. CANNABIS does not include industrial hemp as defined and
authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act. CANNABIS also means concentrate and
cannabis-infused products.
   CEMETERY. A parcel of land, buildings, and/or structures used for the
interring of human remains.
   CEMETERY, PET. A parcel of land, buildings, and/or structures used for the
interring of animal remains.
   CHURCH. A building and/or structure wherein persons regularly assemble for
religious worship, which is used only for such purposes and activities that are
customarily associated therewith. Accessory uses may include rectory,
parsonage, Sunday School, Christian education.
   CLINIC, MEDICAL. A building used for the care, diagnosis, and treatment of
sick, ailing, infirm, or injured people and those who are in need of medical,
surgical, psychological, or dental attention, but who are not provided with
board or room or kept overnight on the premises.
   CLOSED LOOP WELL. A sealed, water-tight loop of pipe buried outside of a
building foundation that is intended to re-circulate a liquid solution through
a heat exchanger.
   CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE (NON-PROFIT). A non-profit association which owns,
hires, or leases a building, premises, or portion thereof; the use of such
premises being restricted to members and their guests.
   COMMERCIAL. Any use having financial profit as an objective.
   COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT. Any machinery, materials, tools, or fuels typically
used or sold in conjunction with a business.
   COMMERCIAL RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. A building, property, or activity, the
principal use or purpose of which is the sale of goods, products, or materials
directly to the consumer. This includes, but is not limited to, clothing
stores, grocers, caterers, pharmacies, book stores, florists, furniture stores,
hardware stores, pet stores, toy stores, and variety stores, but does not
include restaurants or personal service establishment. COMMERCIAL RETAIL
ESTABLISHMENTS shall not include any business that dispenses cannabis, cannabis
infused products, paraphernalia, or any related supplies.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Vehicles associated with the specialized commercial use
which includes, but is not limited to, loaders, forklifts, tow trucks, truck
trailers (semis), wreckers, backhoes, dump trucks, flat bed truck, and
construction equipment and the trailers that haul these vehicles.
   COMMUNITY CENTER. A building or land used for recreational, social,
educational, and cultural activities, usually owned and operated by a public
non-profit group or agency.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATOR. The officer designated by the County
Board responsible for enforcing and administering the requirements of this
chapter.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN (GENERAL PLAN, CITY PLAN, MASTER PLAN). The adopted plan
of Tazewell County and the adopted plans by any other local unit of government
regarding the long-term development of that jurisdiction.
   CONTIGUOUS. Next to, abutting, or touching and having a boundary, or portion
thereof, which is coterminous.
   CONTRACTOR. A profession such as, but not limited to, the following:
plastering; well drilling; septic installation; carpentry; and masonry.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A retail store with a floor area of less than 5,000
square feet, which sells groceries and/or beer or wine, and is open 15 to 24
hours a day, but not including an automobile service station.
   COUNTY. Tazewell County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Tazewell County, Illinois.
   COUNTY CLERK. The Clerk of Tazewell County, Illinois.
   COUNTY HIGHWAY ENGINEER. The appointed head of the Tazewell County Highway
Department.
   COUNTY RECORDER. The Recorder of Deeds of Tazewell County, Illinois.
   COUNTY, UNINCORPORATED LANDS. All land within the county boundaries, but not
located within a municipality or village.
   DAMS. All obstructions, wall embankments, or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A facility which is operated by any person, group of
people, agency, association, or organization licensed by the state, whether
established for gain or otherwise, who or which receives or arranges for the
care or placement of children and/or senior citizens unrelated to the operator
of the facility, established and maintained for the general care of children
and/or senior citizens. DAY CARE CENTER includes facilities commonly called
CHILD CARE FACILITY, DAY NURSERIES, NURSERY SCHOOLS, but does not include any
state operated institution for child care or any bona fide boarding school.
   DAY CARE HOME. Any detached dwelling which receives more than four but no
more than eight children for less than 24 hours per day. The maximum eight
children received shall be reduced in number by the family’s natural adopted or
foster children and all persons under the age of 14 residing in the home. This
does not include an operation which receives only children from a single
family.
   DENSITY. The permitted number of dwelling units per gross acre of land to be
developed.
   DEVELOPMENT. The division of land into two or more parcels; the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation,
enlargement, demolition of any structure; the drilling,  filling, mining,
grading, excavating, or other non-agricultural alterations of the ground
surface; or any use, change, or extension of the use of land.
   DISTRICT. A section or part of the unincorporated portions of the county
within which certain zoning or development regulations apply.
   DRIVEWAY. Any surface providing direct ingress to and egress from a parking
space, garage, dwelling, or other structure.
   DWELLING. A building or portion of a building designed or used exclusively
for residential purposes, including single-family and multi-family dwellings,
but not including temporary overnight accommodations.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a residential building which are
arranged, designed, or used as living quarter for one family. Bathroom and
kitchen facilities are permanently installed.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling containing three or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling, designed for or intended to be
occupied by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling designed and intended to house two
families.
   EASEMENT. A grant of one or more of the property rights by the owner to, or
for the use by, the public, corporation, or another person or entity.
   EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS. Organizations which are exempt from this chapter per
the state’s statutes, including state, federal, or local units of government.
   EXTERIOR STORAGE. Storage which occurs outside of a building.
   FAMILY. One individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, or
adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit; or a group of not more
than six persons not related by blood, marriage, or adoption, living together
as a single housekeeping unit. The term FAMILY shall not include a fraternity,
sorority, overnight accommodation, or residential care home.
   FAMILY MEMBER. Include son, daughter, stepchild, parent, or grandchild.
   FARM. Any parcel of land used for the growing and harvesting of crops, for
the feeding, breeding and management of livestock, for dairying, or for any
other agricultural or horticultural use.
   FARM RESIDENCE. Any residence on a farm owned by the farm owners, operators,
tenants, or seasonal or year-round hired workers. FARM is the land, buildings,
and machinery used in the commercial production of farm products.
   FEEDLOT. Any tract of land or structure, pen, or corral wherein cattle,
horses, sheep, goats, swine, and other livestock are maintained in close
quarters for the purpose of feeding or maintaining such livestock, excluding a
livestock feeding operation.
   FENCE. A free-standing structure made of metal, masonry, or wood, or a
combination thereof, including gates, resting on or partially buried in the
ground level, and used to delineate a boundary or a barrier or means of
protection, confinement, or screening, but does not include hedges, shrubs,
trees, or other natural growth.
   FENCE, OPEN. A fence including entrance and exit gates, where viewed from at
least one horizontal angle, each one-foot wide segment for the full length and
height of the fence contains at least 50% open spaces. OPEN FENCES shall
include, but not limited to, chain link, mesh type, and picket fences.
   FENCE, PERIMETER. A fence that follows the outward boundaries of the
property on which it is located.
   FENCE, PRIVACY/SOLID. A fence that conceals from view from all angles from
adjacent properties and streets the premises behind such fence.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of each floor measured
from the exterior walls or from the centerline of party walls. FLOOR AREA
includes the floor area of accessory buildings and structures, but does not
include any area used exclusively for the parking of motor vehicles.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The total floor area of a building or buildings on a lot
or parcel divided by the gross area of the lot or parcel.
   FLOOR, GROUND. The lowest floor or lowest level of any building or
structure, excluding a basement or cellar.
   FRONTAGE. The front or frontage is that side of a lot abutting on a street
or way and ordinarily regarded as the front of the lot, but it shall not be
considered as the ordinary side line of a corner lot. For further purposes of
determining yard requirements on corner lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to
streets shall be considered FRONTAGE, and yards shall be provided as indicated
under yards in this section.
   FUNERAL HOME. A building used for the preparation of the deceased for burial
and the display of the deceased and ceremonies connected therewith before
burial or cremation.
   GAME BREEDING AND SHOOTING PRESERVE AREA. An area licensed by the state
under the Code of 1971, as amended, 520 ILCS 5/3.27, which must meet certain
requirements for area and operating procedures, and which is granted special
hunting privileges.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or an accessory portion of the
principal building, including a carport, which is intended for and used for
storing privately owned motor vehicles, boats, and trailers of the family or
residents on the premises.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building designed or used for the housing of vehicles
(usually motor) also, a building in which vehicles are on display, are for
sale, or are housed for repair or storage purposes.
   GOLF COURSE. A multiple hole course for playing golf, including any
accessory driving range, clubhouse, office, restaurant, concession stand,
picnic tables, pro shop, maintenance building, restroom facility, or similar
accessory use or structure. This term shall not include miniature golf courses
as a principal or accessory use, nor shall it include driving ranges which are
not accessory to a golf course.
   GOLF DRIVING RANGE. An area of land, including buildings or structures,
intended solely for the practice of golf driving skills.
   GOVERNMENTAL USE, ESSENTIAL. A governmental use that is indispensable to the
community’s health, safety, and welfare including, but not limited to, police
stations, fire stations, emergency medical services, and governmental buildings
without equipment storage.
   GOVERNMENTAL USE, NON-ESSENTIAL. A governmental use that is not critical to
the health, safety, and welfare of the community, such as libraries, museums,
post offices, and governmental buildings with equipment storage.
   GREENHOUSE AND/OR NURSERY CENTER. An enterprise where plants grown on the
site, as well as accessory items directly related to the maintenance and care
of plant life, are sold. A GREENHOUSE/NURSERY CENTER does not include the
growing or selling of cannabis.
   GREENHOUSE COMMERCIAL. A greenhouse where flowers, shrubs, and plants that
are grown off-site are sold. A COMMERCIAL GREENHOUSE shall not include the
growing or selling of cannabis.
   GREENHOUSE NON-COMMERCIAL. A greenhouse where flowers, shrubs, and plants
are grown on-site for personal enjoyment, wholesale distribution, or sale off-
site. NON-COMMERCIAL GREENHOUSES are a form of agriculture. A GREENHOUSE NON-
COMMERCIAL shall not include the growing or selling of cannabis.
   HEALTH CLUB or FITNESS CENTERS. A privately owned building or enclosed
structure containing recreational facilities, such as athletic or physical
conditioning equipment, racquet courts, and/or swimming pool, which is operated
on a private membership basis and restricted to use by members and their
guests.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Tazewell County Department of Public Health.
   HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average ground elevation to the
highest point of the roof of a building or structure.
   HOME COMMERCIAL. A gainful occupation, trade, service, or profession
conducted in conjunction with a dwelling and carried on by one or more of the
occupants of said dwelling. A HOME COMMERCIAL USE is a use which exceeds one or
more of the limitations set forth in § 157.052 and approved as a special use.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any business or profession carried on by the occupant as an
accessory use in the occupant’s dwelling.
   HOMES, INSTITUTIONS, SPECIALIZED CARE FACILITIES. A private home,
institution, building, residence, or other place operated for profit or not-
for-profit which provides, through its ownership or management, personal care,
sheltered care, and/or nursing care for unrelated individuals not comprising a
family unit. Examples include nursing homes and retirement facilities.
   HOSPITAL. A building where provisions for primary health services and
medical or surgical care to people, primarily inpatients, suffering from
illness, disease, injury, deformity, and other abnormal physical or mental
conditions, and including as an integral part of the institution, related
facilities such as laboratories, outpatient facilities, or training facilities.
HOSPITAL shall also include, but not be limited to, sanitariums and any other
medical facility where intensive medical treatment and overnight care is
provided.
   HOTEL or MOTEL, LODGES or RESORTS. A building or structure designed for
transient occupancy, consisting of rooms or suites providing living, sleeping,
and individual toilet facilities. Additional services such as restaurants,
meeting rooms, and recreational facilities may be provided.
   HUNT CLUB. See GAME BREEDING AND SHOOTING PRESERVE AREA.
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   INCOMPATIBLE USE. A use which is not compatible with other uses permitted in
a district because it is inconsistent therewith.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. A special or exclusive type of planned industrial area
designed and equipped to accommodate a community of industries, providing them
with all necessary facilities and services.
   INDUSTRY, HEAVY. The assembly, fabrication, manufacturing, storage, or
processing of goods and materials that ordinarily have significant impacts on
the environment or on the use and enjoyment of adjacent property in terms of
noise, smoke, fumes, odors, glare, or health and safety hazards, or that
otherwise do not constitute “light industry”, such as food processing plants,
resource extraction, recycling centers, sawmills, petroleum storage facilities,
or facilities handling or processing hazardous and/or toxic material. HEAVY
INDUSTRY shall not include an adult cannabis processing organization or infuser
nor shall it include an adult cannabis transporting organization or
transporter.
   INDUSTRY, LIGHT. The assembly, fabrication, or processing of goods and
materials using processes that ordinarily do not create noise, smoke, fumes,
odors, glare, or health or safety hazards outside of the building or lot where
such assembly, fabrication, or processing takes place, where such processes are
housed entirely within a building, or where the area occupied by outdoor
storage of goods and materials used in the assembly, fabrication, or processing
does not exceed 25% of the floor area of all buildings on the lot. This
includes, but is not limited to, printing establishments, facilities for auto
body work, welding, painting or major repair work, and sandblasting. LIGHT
INDUSTRY shall not include an adult cannabis processing organization or infuser
nor shall it include an adult cannabis transporting organization or
transporter.
   INSTITUTIONAL USE. Uses that may or may not be permitted or special uses in
a zoning district that typically provide education, governmental, health,
recreational, social, and transportation services in the community on either a
for profit or not-for-profit basis.
   JUNK. Includes, but is not limited to old, dilapidated scrap or abandoned
metal, paper, cardboard, building and construction material and equipment
(including, but not limited to wood, lumber, concrete, and the like), bottles,
glass, tin cans, appliances, furniture, beds and bedding, rags, rubber, boats,
tires, inoperable motor vehicles and parts, machinery parts, more than three
lawnmowers and any other manufactured or constructed object which has outlived
its usefulness in its original form (notwithstanding the fact that the object
may have scrap value or could be reconditioned) where such object(s), due to
its/their present condition and/or visibility, may reasonably be construed to
be unsightly, dangerous, or unsanitary.
   JUNKYARD. An open area where junk, as defined herein, is brought, sold,
exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled, including
automobile wrecking yards.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. An establishment licensed to operate a facility for the
housing of dogs or domesticated animals. Commercial activities may include, but
need not be limited to, public boarding, breeding, training, and wholesaling of
dogs or domesticated animals, and sale of items or products related to dog or
domesticated animal care.
   KENNEL, PRIVATE. Any lot or premises on which not more than four adult dogs
are kept inside or outside belonging to the owner of the principal use, kept
for the purposes of raising, breeding, or show.
   LAND USE PLANNER. The Tazewell County Land Use Planner.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE.  All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves,
tree limbs, and other materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines, and trees.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE COMPOSTING/MULCHING FACILITY. An establishment for the
composting and mulching of landscape waste materials accumulated as the result
of the care of lawns, shrubbery, vines, and trees. However, property on which
the principal use is residential/agriculture and on which composting of such
landscape waste materials, accumulated exclusively on site, is conducted, shall
not be considered a LANDSCAPE WASTE COMPOSTING FACILITY.
   LIVESTOCK FEEDING OPERATION. Any new or existing operation which stables or
confines and feeds or maintains for a total of 45 days or more in any 12-month
period a combination of at least 50 animal units, or its equivalency, as
defined below.
Category Animal Unit
Category                                                     Animal Unit
Brood cows and slaughter feeder cattle                       1 animal unit
Ducks                                                        0.02 animal units
Horses                                                       2.0 animal units
Laying hens or broilers (facilities with continuous overflow 0.01 animal units
watering)
Laying hens or broilers (facilities with liquid manure       0.03 animal units
handling system)
Milking dairy cows                                           1.4 animal units
Sheep, lambs, or goats                                       0.1 animal units
Swine weighing over 55 pounds                                0.4 animal units
Swine weighing under 55 pounds                               0.03 animal units
Turkeys                                                      0.02 animal units
Young dairy stock                                            0.6 animal units
 
   LOT. A parcel of land legally described or subdivided as a distinct portion
or piece of land or lot of record to be separately owned, used, or developed.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot contiguous to two streets at their juncture, when the
interior angle formed is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot or parcel with access to the bulk of the property by means
of a narrow corridor.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot or parcel having its front and rear yards each abutting
on a street.
   LOT LINE, PROPERTY LINE. A line dividing one lot or one parcel from another
lot or parcel or from a street, alley, or other right-of-way.
   LOT LINE OR PROPERTY LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts a
street. On a corner lot, the FRONT LOT LINE is the lot line which is opposite
the front wall of the principal structure.
   LOT LINE OR PROPERTY LINE, REAR. The lot line not intersecting a front lot
line that is most distant from and most parallel to the front lot line.
   LOT LINE OR PROPERTY LINE, SIDE. Any lot line which is not a front or rear
lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A single lot which is part of a subdivision plat which has
been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county, or a single
parcel of land, the deed of which has been recorded in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds of the county.
   LOT OR PARCEL, AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front,
side, and rear lot lines of a lot or parcel.
   LOT OR PARCEL, BUILDABLE AREA OF. That portion of a lot or parcel bounded by
building lines.
   LOT OR PARCEL, WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot or parcel
lines measured at the required front setback.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Includes structures known as manufactured homes or mobile
homes, manufactured after July 1, 1976. The construction of the a manufactured/
mobile type of single- family residence is regulated by the Federal Department
of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and must comply with the National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et
seq. Manufactured/mobile type homes may be used with or without a permanent
foundation. These standards apply uniformly across the country and it is
illegal for state or local unit of government to impose additional construction
requirements. MANUFACTURED/MOBILE TYPE units will have a red metal seal
permanently affixed to the rear of each towable unit. MANUFACTURED/MOBILE TYPE
units shall be treated as a single-family detached dwelling if a minimum of 24
feet in width and more than 35 feet in length, installed on a permanent
foundation, and shall have brick, wood, or cosmetically equivalent exterior
siding and a pitched roof.
   MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land containing spaces with
required improvements and utilities for the long term placement of manufactured
and mobile homes and may include services and facilities for the residents, but
not including recreational vehicle parks or camps.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in
the travel mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in
length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the
plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein
and manufactured prior to June 15, 1976 to the HUD construction standards.
   MODULAR HOME. The construction of a modular type dwelling unit is regulated
by the state’s Department of Public Health. Unlike the mobile type homes, the
local unit of government may require additional items other than the minimum
state requirements to be incorporated into the construction of modular homes.
MODULAR TYPE HOMES shall be placed on a permanent foundation. A state approved
modular dwelling will have a yellow seal on the electrical panel box of the
home. MODULAR TYPE UNITS manufactured at a factory in Indiana will not bear an
Illinois seal, but rather will contain the seal of approval from the State of
Indiana. MODULAR TYPE UNITS shall be treated as a single- family detached
dwelling.
   NONCONFORMING LOT OR PARCEL. A lot or parcel of record or recorded deed, the
area, dimensions, or location of which was lawful prior to the effective date
of this chapter, or subsequent amendment thereto, but which fails by reason of
such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements of
the zoning district.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. A structure or building, the size,
dimensions or location of which was lawful prior to the effective date of this
chapter, or subsequent amendment thereto, but which fails by reason of such
adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements of the
zoning district.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A specific use or activity which lawfully existed prior
to the effective date of this chapter, or subsequent amendment thereto, but
which fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to
the present requirements of the zoning district.
   NON-FARM RESIDENCE. Any residence which is not a farm residence.
   NURSING HOME. An establishment for the care of children or the aged or
infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, and which does
not contain facilities for surgical care, obstetrics, or medical treatment
other than ordinary day-to-day care of convalescent, aged, or otherwise infirm
persons.
   OPEN SPACE. Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and
set aside, designated, or reserved for public or private use and enjoyment.
Such space must be free of automobile traffic, parking, and undue hazard and be
readily accessible by all those for whom it is intended to be used or may be
restricted by limited access for use as a natural preservation area. It may
also be a yard, court, or the space between two buildings or between the
building and the boundary line of a lot or parcel.
   PARCEL. A contiguous lot or tract of land owned and recorded by the same
person or persons.
   PARK. An area open to the general public and reserved for recreational,
educational, or scenic purposes.
   PARKING AREA. An area containing one or more designated parking spaces.
   PARKING LOT. An area not within a building where motor vehicles may be
parked for the purposes of temporary, daily, or overnight off-street parking.
   PARKING SPACE. An area, enclosed or unenclosed, reserved for the parking of
one motor vehicle.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A closed perimeter formation intended to support and
anchor the unit and consistent of materials such as concrete, mortared concrete
block, or mortared brick extending into the ground below the frost line which
shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, cellars, basements, or
crawlspaces, but excluding the use of piers.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, legal entity, or
their legal representative(s), agent(s), or assign(s).
   PERSONAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. A business which provides services directly
to customers at the site of business, or which receives goods from or returns
goods to the customer which have been treated or processed at another location.
This includes, but not limited to, travel agencies, dry cleaning and laundry
drop-off and pick-up, laundry coin-operated stations, tailors, hair stylists,
cosmeticians, toning and tanning salons, postal substations, quick print photo
establishments, shoe repair shops, interior design studios, and domestic pet
services. PERSONAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS shall not include any business that
dispenses cannabis, cannabis infused products, paraphernalia, or any related
supplies.
   PERSONAL STORAGE/RECREATIONAL BUILDING. A use or structure involving storage
ofpersonal or family-owned items, vehicles, and/or recreational equipment, not
in connection with a business or for-profit enterprise as a principal use. The
building must meet the principal building setbacks for the district in which it
is permitted. The building may have a restroom, but sleeping rooms are
prohibited.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A parcel or tract of land having an area as herein
required, initially under unified ownership or control, and which is or is
intended to be the site for two or more principal uses, or one principal
building for two or more principal uses and within which allowable exceptions
in the district regulations are specified.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PLAT. A drawing or map made to a measurable scale
upon which is presented a description and definition of the way in which the
requirements of the planned unit development and the subdivision ordinance are
to be met and intended for recording with the County Recorder of Deeds.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, NON-RESIDENTIAL. A development comprised of
attached and/or detached units containing, as its principal use, light
industrial, industrial, or commercial uses only. The development should
coordinate service areas and be built in accordance with densities specified in
the zoning district in which it is located.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, RESIDENTIAL. A development comprised of attached
and/or detached dwelling units that has coordinated common open space and
service areas and is built in accordance with densities specified in the zoning
district in which it is located.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Tri-County Regional Planning Commission.
   PLAT. A map, plan, or layout showing the subdivision of land into lots.
   POPULATION DENSITY. A density consisting of at least ten inhabited non-farm
residences located within one-half mile from a livestock feeding operation.
   PORCH. A platform which projects from the exterior wall of a building
covered by a roof or eave, which may be supported by posts, and has no roof
supporting walls on three sides.
   PRIME AGRICULTURAL LAND. According to the Illinois Circular 156, Soil
Productivity in Illinois, a product of the University of Illinois Cooperative
Extension Service and College of Agriculture, prime agricultural land as been
divided into three classes defined as:
      (1)   Class A: soil productivity index of 145-160 (excellent);
      (2)   Class B: soil productivity index of 125-140 (very good); and
      (3)   Class C: soil productivity index of 105-120 (good).
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. The primary building or structure upon a
lot or parcel, or the building or structure which houses the principal use of
the premises.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary purpose for which a land area, building, or
structure is used.
   PROPERTY. A lot, parcel, or tract of land, together with any improvements
and/or structures erected, constructed, or contained thereon.
   PROPERTY LINE. The lines bounding a lot of record, a metes and bounds
parcel, or a zoning lot, as defined herein.
   PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM. A system for the collection of wastewater from the
public having a minimum of 15 service connections. PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM includes
any collection pipe and appurtenances and treatment facilities under control of
a certified operator.
   PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURE. An electricity or gas substation, water or
wastewater storage tank, tower, reservoir, filtration plant or pumping station,
telephone repeater station or similar structure used as an intermediary
switching, boosting, distribution, or transfer station for electricity between
the point of generation and the end user, including community support
structures and antennas, radio, television, microwave transmission or relay
towers, and other similar distributing equipment. Pursuant to statute (55 ILCS
5/51 2001), the county’s zoning powers do not include the right to specify or
regulate the type or location of public utility, as defined in the Public
Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.), if the public utility is subject to
the Messages Tax Act (35 ILCS 610/1 et seq.), the Gas Revenue Tax Act (35 ILCS
615/1 et seq.), or the Public Utilities Revenue Act (35 ILCS 620/1 et seq.) or
if such facilities or equipment are located on any rights-of-way and are used
for railroad purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A system for the distribution to the public of piped
water for human consumption having a minimum of 15 service connections. PUBLIC
WATER SYSTEM includes any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution
facilities under control of a certified operator.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
      (1)   CLASS I. Facilities that do not involve motorized equipment, guns,
or animals. All buildings housing such activities or accessory to the activity
may not exceed a combined total of
      (2)   CLASS II. Facilities for sports and recreational activities that do
not involve motorized equipment, guns, or animals. All buildings housing such
activities or accessory to such activities may not exceed a combined total of
15,000 square feet.
      (3)   CLASS III. Facilities including those that involve the use of
motorized equipment, guns, and/or animals.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITIES/COMMERCIAL. Any use or activity for amusement,
pleasure, or sport not otherwise specifically regulated under the Zoning Code
and not accessory to an existing permitted use. This includes establishments
where food and beverages are sold as an accessory use, but does not include
restaurants or taverns.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type portable structure (marine or
terrain) without a permanent foundation that can be towed, hauled, or driven,
and that is primarily designed as a temporary living accommodation for
recreational camping and travel use, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Camping trailers, motor homes, mini motor homes, travel trailers,
truck campers, and van campers;
      (2)   Motorcycles, jet skis, all-terrain vehicles, stock cars, boats,
snowmobiles, or such item used primarily for recreational purposes; and
      (3)   Utility trailers and other trailers designed to transport materials
other than people including, but not limited to, other recreational vehicles
and other forms of cargo.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any lot or parcel of land upon which two or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established,, or maintained for
occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living
quarters for recreation or vacation purposes. This term includes any structures
or vehicles intended for use as a part of such RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials that are separated from garbage, municipal
waste, or refuse for the purpose of recycling, including, but not limited to,
aluminum and tin cans, newspapers, corrugated cardboard, high-grade printing
and writing papers, magazines, landscape waste, plastic, and glass containers.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A site or facility that accepts only segregated, non-
hazardous, non- special, homogeneous, non-putrescible materials such as dry
paper, glass, cans, or plastic for short-term storage for the subsequent use in
the secondary materials market. This shall not include a facility which
handles, collects, or otherwise stores or processes automobile bodies or parts.
   RECYCLING DROP-OFF POINT. A collection point for small refuse items, such as
bottles and newspapers, located within a container or small structure.
   RESIDENTIAL CARE HOME. A dwelling in which staff persons provide care,
education, and participation in community activities for a group of unrelated
individuals who have long-term mental, intellectual, developmental, or physical
disabilities or handicaps, and who are unable to live independently but are
capable of community living if provided with an appropriate level of
supervision, assistance, and support services, but who do not require on-site
medical or nursing facilities, with the primary good of developing or
exercising basic skills for daily living. This does not include dwellings for
persons whose primary reason for placement in the dwelling is the abuse of
alcohol or controlled substances, or the need for continuous nursing or medical
care, or of persons who have recently been released from incarceration, or
dwellings which serve as an alternative to incarceration for persons convicted
of criminal offenses or declared criminally insane or dangerous.
   RESIDENTIAL CARE HOME, SMALL. A residential care home with five or fewer
residents.
   RESIDENTIAL CARE HOME, LARGE. A residential care home with more than five
residents.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment, including banquet halls, that is open to the
public where food and/or beverages are regularly prepared, consumed, or sold:
at a table or counter within the premises; for consumption at table or counter
outdoors, but located on the premises; for consumption in automobiles or other
motor vehicles located in parking areas on the premises; and for consumption
off the premises. The term includes fast food restaurants, whose principal
business is the sale of prepared or rapidly prepared food directly to the
customer in a ready-to-consume state for consumption either within the
restaurant building, in cars on the premises, or off the premises.
   RETIREMENT COMMUNITY. A planned community designed to meet the needs of, and
exclusively for, the residences of senior citizens.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area or strip of land, either public or private, on which
irrevocable right- of-passage has been recorded for the use of vehicles or
pedestrians or both.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE. The division line between private property and a
dedicated street or way, usually uninterrupted from corner to corner in any
given block.
   SCHOOL. A publicly or privately owned elementary school, middle school,
junior school, or high school which does not provide lodging for students. This
shall not include any dwelling which receives fewer than five students.
   SCREENING. A method of visually shielding or obscuring structures or uses
from abutting or nearby properties with fences, walls, berms, or densely
planted vegetation.
   SEMI-TRAILER. A vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load
rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   SETBACK. The required minimum horizontal distance between the buildable area
and the related front, side, or rear property lines.
   SETBACK LINES. The line parallel to the street right-of-way or other related
lot line at a distance therefrom equal to the depth of the required setback for
the zoning district in which the lot is located.
   SHIPPING/CARGO CONTAINER. An intermodal freight container that is used for
the transportation and storage of goods and materials which are loaded onto
trucks, trains, or ships for the
purpose of moving goods and materials. For the purpose of this definition a
SHIPPING/CARGO CONTAINER does not have wheels and does not include a truck
body, trailer or transport trailer.
   SHOOTING RANGE, INDOOR. A facility designed or used for shooting at targets
with rifles, pistols, shotguns, or archery equipment, and which is completely
enclosed within a building or structure.
   SHOOTING RANGE, OUTDOOR. A facility designed or used for shooting at targets
with rifles, pistols, shotguns, or archery equipment, and which is not
completely enclosed within a building or structure.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A commercial development which is designed, developed,
operated, and controlled as a unit with off-street parking placed on the site
to serve jointly all establishments in the center.
   SIGN. A structure, or part thereof, used primarily to advertise, identify,
display, direct, or attract attention to an object, person, establishment,
product, service, event, or location by any means, including words, letters,
figures, design, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination, or projected images,
but not including the decoration or covering of an exterior wall by object,
depictions, design or color.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. The area of the corner lot closest to the intersection which
is kept free of visual impairment to allow full view of both pedestrian and
vehicular traffic.
   SITE COVERAGE. The area of a planned development site which is covered by
buildings, parking areas, roads, drives, and loading areas.
   SITE PLAN. A plan prepared showing dimensions, the boundaries of a site and
the location of all buildings, structures, uses, and principal site development
features proposed for a specific parcel of land.
   SOIL PRODUCTIVITY INDEX. Productivity indexes provide a single scale on
which soils may be rated according to their suitability for several major crops
under specified levels of management.
   SPECIAL CONDITION. A condition for the establishment of a special use.
   SPECIAL USE. A use permitted in a district pursuant to, and in compliance
with, procedures specified herein.
   STABLE, PRIVATE (NON-PROFESSIONAL). A structure and/or land used which is
designed, arranged, used, or intended to be used for the keeping of equines for
the private use of the occupants of the dwelling and their guests, but in no
event are for hire and which use does not constitute a primary source of
income.
   STABLE, PUBLIC. A structure and/or land in or on which an operator keeps
equines primarily for boarding, riding, training, and giving lessons.
   STORAGE FACILITY. An area of land in a controlled and fenced compound that
allows for outside storage of items such as, but not limited to, recreational
vehicles.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above, or if there is no floor above it, then
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET. A thoroughfare within the right-of-way which affords the principal
means of access to abutting property. A STREET may be designated as an avenue,
a boulevard, drive, highway, land, parkway, place, road, thoroughfare, or other
appropriate name. STREETS are identified as follows.
      (1)   Arterial street (highway). A street maintained by and under the
jurisdiction of the state’s Department of Transportation.
      (2)   Collector street (major). A street maintained by and under the
jurisdiction of the County Highway Department.
      (3)   Minor street (minor). A street maintained by and under the
jurisdiction of the various County Township Road Commissioners, except those
streets classified as direct access streets.
      (4)   Private street (minor). A street which has not been dedicated to
the public and serves a limited number of properties or uses.
      (5)   Subdivision standard. A street which is located within the planning
jurisdiction of an incorporated municipality with an adopted comprehensive plan
subject to their approval.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, erected, or portable, the use of which
requires a location on a parcel of land. This includes a fixed or movable
building which can be used either temporarily or permanently. STRUCTURE shall
include, but not limited to, buildings, retaining walls, swimming pools,
fences, billboards, signs.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, development, or re-subdivision of any lot, area,
or tract of land by the owner or agent, either by lots or by metes and bounds,
into lots two or more in number for the purpose, whether immediate or future,
of conveyance, transfer, improvement, or sale, with the appurtenant streets,
alleys, and easements, dedicated or intended to be dedicated to public use or
for the use of the purchasers or owners within the tract subdivided. The
division of land for agricultural purposes not involving any new street, alley,
or other means of access shall not be deemed a subdivision.
   SWIMMING POOL. A human-made rigid or semi-rigid structure for water, whether
intended for indoor or outdoor use, having a depth at any point greater than
two feet and with a water surface area exceeding 125 square feet, which is used
or intended to be used for swimming, wading, bathing, immersion, or partial
immersion of human beings and which is constructed, installed, and maintained
in or above ground.
   TAVERN. A commercial establishment serving alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises and for which food may be provided as an accessory
to the principal use.
   THEATER. A building or part of a building devoted to the showing of moving
pictures or theatrical productions on a commercial basis.
   THEATER, OUTDOOR DRIVE-IN. An open lot or part thereof which, with its
appurtenance facilities, are devoted primarily to the showing of moving
pictures or theatrical productions on a commercial basis to patrons seated in
automobiles or on outdoor seats.
   TRUCKING FIRM. Land or buildings used as a storage area and dispatch for
commercial vehicles, and such buildings may be used for the repair of the
commercial vehicles associated with the trucking firm.
   USE. Any purpose for which a building or other structure, or a lot or parcel
may be designed, arranged, intended, maintained, or occupied; or any activity,
occupation, business, or operation carried on or intended to be carried on in a
building or other structure or on a lot or parcel.
   USE, PERMITTED. Any use which is or may be lawfully established in a
particular district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements of
these regulations for the district in which such use is located.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The primary purpose or function that a lot serves or is
proposed to serve, distinguished from an accessory use. A PRINCIPAL USE may
either be permitted or special.
   VARIANCE. A deviation from the regulations or standards adopted by this
chapter which the Board is permitted to grant when strict enforcement would
cause undue hardship owing to circumstances unique to the individual property,
lot, structure, or premises for which the variance is sought.
   VETERINARIAN CLINIC. A place where animals or pets are given medical or
surgical treatment and the boarding of animals is limited to short-term care as
an accessory use.
   VIDEO GAMING PARLOR. An establishment or business whose primary purpose is
to operate video gaming terminals as defined under the Illinois Video Gaming
Act, and in which the sale of goods or snacks and alcoholic beverages is only
incidental to the operation of the video gaming terminals.
   WAREHOUSE, DISTRIBUTION. A use engaged in storage, wholesale, and
distribution of goods or materials to another location for the purpose of
resale or use at the place distributed to. WAREHOUSE, DISTRIBUTION shall not
include an adult cannabis transporting organization or transporter.
   WAREHOUSING, MINI STORAGE. An establishment whose primary purpose is to
provide space to the general public that may be used for the storage of goods
and/or materials and made up of groups of individual units contained within one
or more structures.
   WINDOW. An opening in an exterior wall of a building, other than a door,
which provides all or part of the natural light or ventilation or both, to an
interior space.
   YARD. An open space, other than a court, of uniform width or depth on the
same lot with a structure, lying between the structure and the nearest lot
line, and is unoccupied and unobstructed from the surface of the ground upward
except as may be specifically provided by the regulations and standards.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the front lot line
between side lot lines and from the front lot line to the front of the
principal structure. (See also LOT LINE, FRONT.)
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the rear lot line and
lying between the rear lot line and rear of the principal structure. (See also
LOT LINE, REAR.)
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending between the side lot line and the side of the
principal structure on both sides of the principal structure extending between
the front and rear yards. (See also LOT LINE, SIDE.)
   ZERO LOT LINE. The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that one
or more of the building’s sides rests directly on a lot line.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS (ZBA). The Zoning Board of Appeals of Tazewell
County, Illinois.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas within the unincorporated portions of the
county that have been designated as set forth on the zoning district map.
   ZONING DISTRICT MAP. The official zoning maps or series of official zoning
maps, showing zoning district boundaries of the county.
   ZONING LOT. A single property, parcel, unit, tract, plot, or otherwise
designated portion of land, having metes and bounds, which is designated by its
owner or developer as a property, parcel, unit, tract, plot, or otherwise
designated portion of land which is to be used, developed, or built upon as a
unit under single ownership or control, and which is occupied or capable of
being occupied by one or more structures and the accessory structures. A ZONING
LOT may or may not coincide with a lot of record.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-2(b)) (Ord. LU-17-14, passed 11-15-2017; Ord. LU-18-11,
passed 8-29-2018; Ord. LU-19-11, passed 10-30-2019; Ord. LU-20-03, passed 2-26-
2020; Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023; Res. LU-24-09, passed 5-29-2024; Res.
LU-25-07, passed 6-26-2025)
§ 157.006 RULES FOR BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Streets and alleys. Boundaries indicated as approximately following
the centerline of streets or alleys shall be construed to follow such
centerlines.
   (B)   Lot lines. Boundaries indicated as approximately following recorded
lot lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   (C)   City or village limits. Boundaries indicated as approximately
following city or village limits shall be construed as following such city or
village limits.
   (D)   Railroad lines. Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall
be construed to be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Shoreline. Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be
construed to follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in the
shoreline, shall be construed as moving with the actual shoreline. Boundaries
indicated as approximately following the centerlines of streams, rivers,
canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such
centerlines.
   (F)   Parallels or extensions of above. Boundaries indicated as parallel to
or extensions of features indicated in divisions (A) through (E) above shall be
so construed. Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map
shall be determined by the scale of the map.
   (G)   Conflict with zoning map. Where physical or cultural features existing
on the ground are at variance with those shown on the official zoning map or in
other circumstances not covered by divisions (A) through (F) above, the Zoning
Board shall interpret the district boundaries.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-3(a))
§ 157.007 RULE FOR DISCONNECTED TERRITORY.
   All territory which may hereafter be disconnected from any incorporated area
within the county shall be considered to be zoned in the same manner as the
territory contiguous with such disconnected territory. Where such disconnected
territory is contiguous with two or more districts, it shall be zoned in the
same manner as the district which has the largest contacting boundary to such
disconnected territory until otherwise classified.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-3(b))
ESTABLISHMENT AND REGULATION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP AND DISTRICTS
§ 157.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the unincorporated areas of the county are
hereby divided into zoning districts. These districts are established as a
matter of policy to better guide and plan land use changes, particularly the
conversion of the rural land to urban uses. It is recognized that a diversity
of lifestyles and land uses should be maintained for the residents of the
county.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-4(a))
§ 157.021 OFFICIAL ZONING MAPS.
   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this chapter are
as shown on the zoning map, which map, together with all explanatory matter
thereon, is incorporated herein and is hereby made a part of this chapter just
as if fully described herein. Said map, bearing the date of January 1, 1998,
and authenticated by the signature of the Chairperson of the County Board,
attested by the County Clerk and bearing his or her seal, is hereby designated
“official zoning map”, and shall be kept on file in the office of the Community
Development Administrator.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-4(b))
§ 157.022 DETAIL AREA MAPS.
   (A)   In addition to the official zoning map referred to in §
157.021, is a book containing detail maps on pages numbered one to 23,
inclusive, of the individual townships of the county and other areas.
   (B)   Said book, properly authenticated on the front cover thereof and
bearing date of January 1, 1998, and each and every page thereof, including the
cover page, is incorporated herein and is hereby made a part of this chapter
just as if fully described herein, and shall be kept on file in the office of
the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-4(c))
§ 157.023 AMENDMENTS TO ZONING MAPS.
   (A)   All amendments to this chapter which affect the location and
boundaries of the districts established herein or of districts hereafter
established shall be accompanied by, as part of said amending ordinance, a copy
of one or more of the detail area maps referred to in §
157.022, as modified by said amending ordinance, showing the changes made by
said amendment, or in lieu thereof, a detailed description of such changes.
   (B)   In addition, when major changes are made to the area zoned by this
chapter, accompanying the amending chapter there shall be a copy of the
official zoning map as so modified, which shall be designated “Amended official
zoning map no.     of Tazewell County”, and which shall be known as the
official zoning map from and after the effective date of the amending chapter,
until replaced by a subsequent amendment.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-4(d))
§ 157.024 DISPLAY OF OFFICIAL MAPS.
   (A)   The Community Development Administrator shall keep a true copy of the
official zoning map or an amended copy thereof on display in his or her office
at all times for the convenience of the public. He or she shall also keep
available in his or her office all current amendments to the detail area maps
referred to herein.
   (B)   As amendments are made affecting the zoning districts and the
locations and boundaries thereof, the Community Development Administrator shall
make such changes to the copy of the official zoning map on display in his or
her office as are required by such amendments, the intention being that there
shall be on display in the Community Development Administrator’s office at all
times a copy of the official zoning map, with any official modifications,
showing the current zoning status of land and water areas and structures in the
county.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-4(e))
DISTRICT REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS
§ 157.035 UNIFORMITY OF APPLICATION.
   The provisions herein shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety, morals, and welfare.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(a))
§ 157.036 GENERAL REQUIREMENT.
   No building, structure, or land located within the county’s zoning
jurisdiction shall be used or occupied, and no building or structure shall be
erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or altered, unless in
accordance with all the regulations and standards herein specified for the
district in which it shall be located.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(b))
§ 157.037 EFFECT ON EXISTING AGREEMENTS.
   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, or any
other private agreement, provided that where the regulations of this chapter
are more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such
easements, covenants, or other private agreements, the requirements of this
chapter shall govern.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(c))
§ 157.038 EXISTING VIOLATIONS.
   Any building, structure, or use that was not lawfully existing at the time
of the adoption of this chapter remains unlawful hereunder to the extent that,
and in any matter that, said unlawful building, structure, or use is in
conflict with the requirements of the chapter.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(d))
§ 157.039 AGRICULTURAL EXEMPTION.
   Buildings, structures, or land used or to be used specifically for
agriculture, as herein defined, are exempt from the requirements of this
chapter, except that such buildings or structures must comply with the
applicable setback requirements.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(e))
§ 157.040 PUBLIC UTILITY EXEMPTION.
   As required by statute, the type or location of any poles, towers, wires,
cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, or any similar distributing equipment of a
public utility are exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(f))
§ 157.041 LOT DIVISION.
   No zoning lot shall hereafter be divided into two or more zoning lots, and
no portion of any zoning lot shall be sold, unless all zoning lots resulting
from each such division or sale shall conform to the applicable regulations of
the zoning district in which the property is located.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(g)) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.042 LOT DEPTH.
   The minimum lot depth of all lots or parcels shall be 125 feet. The lot
depth shall be measured at the shortest distance between the rear and front
line.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(h))
§ 157.043 MAIN STRUCTURES AND USES.
   In no case, other than in planned unit developments, shall there be more
than one main or principal structure or main or principal use on one lot or
tract of land.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(i)) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.044 MINIMUM FLOOR AREAS OF A DWELLING.
   The minimum floor area of a dwelling per unit shall be as follows:
   (A)   Single- and two-family dwelling: 700 square feet per dwelling unit;
and
   (B)   Multi-family dwelling: 400 square feet per dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(j))
§ 157.045 NUMBER OF BUILDINGS PERMITTED PER LOT.
   (A)   Every single-family dwelling hereafter erected, constructed, or placed
on property shall be located on a separate zoning lot.
   (B)   In no case shall there be more than one single-family dwelling on one
zoning lot, except for accessory buildings or uses as defined herein.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(k)) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.046 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, AND USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses shall be compatible with the
principal use or structure and shall not be constructed or established prior to
the establishment or construction of the principal use or structure.
   (B)   In the residential districts without a variance, the aggregate ground
floor area of all accessory buildings on a lot shall not exceed the greater of:
      (1)   The ground floor area of the dwelling on that lot which shall
include any attached structures, except decks or open porches;
      (2)   Four percent of the area of the lot for the first acre plus 1% of
all area above one acre; or
      (3)    Lot size of more than two acres there shall be no limit, except
all accessory structures shall not exceed the lot coverage requirement for the
district in which it is located. In the R-1 and R-2 zoning districts for this
limitation all lot line setbacks for the new or expanded accessory building
must be double the normal required setbacks.
   (C)   In the residential districts, the accessory structures shall not be
located in or project upon the minimum required front yard.
   (D)   Shipping/cargo containers, semi-trailers or portable buildings or
structures may be permitted in any district when used as temporary buildings
for offices or storage of material and equipment as incidental to and on the
same lot or adjacent lots during construction operations of the principal
structure, for a period not to exceed 12 months.
   (E)   Manufactured/mobile homes, semi-trailers, recreational vehicles,
buses, or vans shall not be used for storage purposes in any district, except
that semi-trailers may be used for temporary storage as defined above for a
period not to exceed 12 months.
   (F)   Manufactured/mobile homes shall not be parked or stored on any other
lot, other than in a lawfully established manufactured/mobile home park, or a
place of business for sale of manufactured/mobile homes.
   (G)   The conversion of a recreation vehicle, manufactured/mobile home, or
semi-trailer into an accessory structure shall be prohibited.
   (H)   Shipping/cargo containers may be permitted, upon approval of a
building permit, in the A-1, A-2, C-1, C-2, I-1, I-2 and Conservation Zoning
Districts but not within a platted residential subdivision or on parcels less
than one acre and shall adhere to the following provisions:
      (1)   Said containers shall not be permitted as the sole structure on the
property;
      (2)   Said containers shall not be used for human habitation or used to
store hazardous materials;
      (3)   Said containers shall not be stacked on top of each other;
      (4)   The maximum number of shipping containers shall be limited to two
per property;
      (5)   Said containers shall only be 400 square feet in size or less;
      (6)   Said containers shall not be modified or altered and no additions
shall be added;
      (7)   Said containers may be allowed without a permanent foundation;
      (8)   Electrical, mechanical or plumbing installations shall be
prohibited;
      (9)   Said containers shall be painted a dark solid color and contain no
graphics and corrosion shall be covered or repaired. Any cargo container that
becomes unsound, unstable, or otherwise dangerous shall immediately be removed
or repaired.
      (10)   Said containers in the C-1 and C-2 Zoning District shall also be
screened from Residential Zoning Districts or any lot occupied by a residential
use.
      (11)   Containers shall not be placed on driveways or in parking lots
except for temporary storage as mentioned above.
   (I)   The following accessory structure may be permitted without a principal
structure:
      (1)   Agricultural structures; and/or
      (2)   Open picnic shelters.
   (J)   The uses permitted in one district shall not be permitted in any other
district unless specifically stated.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(l)) (Ord. LU-19-11, passed 10-30-2019; Ord. LU-20-09,
passed 11-18-2020; Res. LU-23-07, passed 5-31-2023)
§ 157.047 HEIGHT.
   (A)   The height of any main or principal structure, accessory building or
structure may exceed the maximum permitted height by one foot for each
additional foot by which the width of each yard exceeds the minimum yard
dimension for the district in which such structure or building is located.
   (B)   The height limitations established for each district shall not apply
to public utility poles and lines, communication support structures, skylights,
chimneys, fire towers, spires, silos, grain elevators, cooling towers, heating
ventilation, air conditioning equipment, and other necessary mechanical
appurtenances.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(m))
§ 157.048 SETBACK LINES.
   All main or principal structures and accessory buildings shall be positioned
in conformity with the setback line regulations as set forth in the applicable
sections of this chapter. All setbacks shall be measured from the overhang of
the proposed structure.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(n))
§ 157.049 FENCING.
   Fences that are open or solid are allowed in all districts with the
following conditions, unless otherwise regulated herein.
   (A)   In all residential districts, platted subdivisions, and around
dwelling units in the agriculture districts, only open fences which do not
exceed four feet in height are allowed along the front property line to the
building setback line.
   (B)   (1)   In all residential districts and platted subdivisions, fences
which do not exceed six feet in height are allowed to the side and rear of the
principal structure.
      (2)   All solid fences shall be constructed with the finished side out.
   (C)   Fences may be placed up to a property line, provided that fences shall
not encroach into rights- of-way.
   (D)   Fences may be placed on a corner lot beginning at the building setback
line along the side and rear property line not to exceed six feet in height.
   (E)   (1)   Barbed wire and electric fences shall be located not less than
ten feet from residential district boundary lines.
      (2)   Barbed wire fence and electric fences shall not be located in any
residential district.
   (F)   (1)   Fences that are located around non-agriculture or non-
residential uses and also in a non- residential district may be either open or
solid fences and shall not exceed eight feet in height.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may, as a special use, authorize the
construction of a fence higher than eight feet if it is determined the public
welfare is served.
   (G)   A property owner may install a fence within a dedicated easement at
his or her own risk. In no case, however, shall a fence be constructed within a
dedicated drainage easement.
   (H)   Fencing exempt from permit requirements:
      (1)   Fencing used for agriculture purposes/operations;
      (2)   Ornamental fencing consisting of decorative posts, lattices,
arbors, or trellises; and
      (3)   Fences comprising of less than 24 feet of total lineal distance per
parcel. Such fences shall adhere to all other fencing regulations.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(o))
§ 157.050 SWIMMING POOLS.
   General provisions. All swimming pools shall adhere to the accessory
structure setback of the zoning district in which it is being placed. In
addition, all pools shall be constructed or installed in accordance with the
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, adopted by reference and as amended
in the Tazewell County Building and Property Maintenance Code,
Chapter 154.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(p)) (Ord. LU-17-05, passed 9-27-2017; Ord. LU-21-12,
passed 9-29-2021; Res. LU-22-07, passed 8-31-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.051 DRIVEWAYS.
   A driveway shall be a minimum of one foot from a side or rear property line,
except for the lot lines between properties where both properties share a
common driveway created by a recorded easement.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(q))
§ 157.052 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Any home occupation which is customarily, in whole or in part, conducted in
a residential or agriculture district shall be permitted in such district,
provided that all of the following criteria are met:
   (A)   A home occupation shall not be conducted from an accessory building;
   (B)   There shall be no exterior indication of the home occupation other
than one sign and no variation from the residential character of the dwelling;
   (C)   Only one sign shall be allowed in connection with a home occupation
and shall not be illuminated, not exceed beyond lot lines, and not exceed two
square feet;
   (D)   There are no commodities sold or services rendered that require
receipt and delivery of merchandise, goods, or equipment other than by a
passenger motor vehicle or by mail or package delivery vehicles such as Federal
Express and UPS;
   (E)   Activities of the home occupation on the premises must be conducted
entirely within the dwelling and only by members of the family residing on the
premises;
   (F)   There shall be no exterior storage of materials or equipment;
   (G)   The home occupation shall not utilize mechanical, electrical, or other
equipment which produces noise, electrical or magnetic interference, vibration,
heat, glare, or other nuisances outside the dwelling;
   (H)   The home occupation shall not include the conducting of retail sales
on the premises, other than by mail, phone, or internet;
   (I)   The home occupation shall not be open to the public between the hours
of 8:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.;
   (J)   A home occupation shall also include the use of a part of the dwelling
as office for activities carried on away from the premises; and
   (K)   Permissible home occupations include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Art studio;
      (2)   Barber or beauty shop (to include not more than one chair);
      (3)   Profession office or clergyman, lawyer, physician, dentist,
architect, engineer, or accountant;
      (4)   Seamstress;
      (5)   Teaching music, dancing, or other instruction (limited to one pupil
at a time); and
      (6)   Repair services limited to watches, clocks, computers, televisions,
stereos, radio receiving sets, and small household appliances.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(r))
§ 157.053 ZERO LOT LINE DUPLEX.
   A duplex of which both dwelling units may be sold separately if:
   (A)   At the time the dwelling units are severed from common ownership, the
owner or owners of the two dwelling units have signed an agreement to run with
the land, in a form adequate to ensure access for maintenance and providing for
maintenance of the walls and driveways or a set of covenants and restrictions
are in place to provide for said maintenance. Nothing in this section shall be
interpreted as permitting the construction of any adjacent buildings using only
one wall for both buildings; each building shall have its own wall;
   (B)   A re-subdivision plat dividing the lot has been approved by the County
Plat Officer prior to recording. A formal subdivision procedure shall not be
required; and
   (C)   The duplex otherwise complies with the requirements of this chapter,
as amended from time to time. The subdivided lot shall be considered one lot
for purposes of all other provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(s))
§ 157.054 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   In the A-1 and A-2 Zoning Districts on parcels 40 acres and less, and
not in a platted subdivision, not more than four operable recreational vehicles
may be parked or stored outdoors provided, any operable recreational vehicle is
parked or stored at least three feet from a side and rear property line and
behind the front yard setback line.
   (B)   In a platted subdivision, regardless of the zoning classification, or
on R-1, R-2, and Rural Residential zoned parcels, not more than three operable
recreational vehicles may be parked or stored outdoors accessory to a
residence.
   (C)   A utility trailer containing another recreational vehicle shall count
as one recreational vehicle.
   (D)   In the R-1, R-2, and Rural Residential District, any operable
recreational vehicle parked or stored in a side or rear yard shall be a minimum
of three feet from a side or rear property line.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles occupied for dwelling purposes shall be located
in a recreational vehicle park, unless the occupant is a bona fide guest of the
dwelling owner. Such bona fide guest shall not occupy the recreational vehicle
for more than 60 days in a calendar year while parked on the premises.
   (F)   In the A-1, A-2, and Conservation Zoning Districts, when the applicant
desires to use a recreational vehicle on private property strictly for
recreational purposes and not for permanent habitation, and the location of the
recreational vehicle does not hinder the use, degrade, or affect the value and
appearance of adjoining properties, and adequate water supply and sewage
disposal facilities are provided and approval obtained from the County Health
Department, said use of a recreational vehicle may be permitted as a seasonal
use.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(t))
§ 157.055 ACCESSORY DWELLINGS.
    An accessory dwelling shall be permitted in any residential and agriculture
district in accordance with the following requirements:
   (A)   The principal use of the lot shall be a single-family dwelling;
   (B)   No more than one accessory dwelling shall be located on a lot;
   (C)   The accessory dwelling shall be owned by the same person who occupies
the habitable principal dwelling;
   (D)   The accessory dwelling shall share the driveway serving the principal
dwelling;
   (E)   The accessory dwelling shall have a floor area no greater than 50% of
the floor area of the principal dwelling, with a minimum of 350 square feet and
a maximum of 800 square feet;
   (F)   If the accessory dwelling is located within the principal dwelling and
the entrance of the accessory dwelling is separate from the entrance to the
principal dwelling, then that entrance shall not face any street on which the
lot fronts;
   (G)   An accessory dwelling may be located in an unattached garage for the
residents of the principal dwelling.
   (H)   The accessory dwelling shall not be used for rental property for non-
family members; and
   (I)   A 911 address shall be obtained for the accessory dwelling.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(u)) (Ord. LU-17-14, passed 11-15-2017; Ord. LU-21-02,
passed 3-31-2021)
§ 157.056 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   The following restrictions shall apply to any outdoor lighting located in
any district and should serve to protect against excessive glare and light
spilling over to neighboring properties.
   (A)   All outdoor lighting for non-residential uses shall be located,
screened, or shielded so that neighboring properties located in residential
districts are not illuminated.
   (B)   No outdoor lighting shall be of such intensity or brilliance so as to
cause glare or to impair the vision of drivers.
   (C)   Except as specifically exempted in division (D) below, the maximum
permitted luminaire height shall be 40 feet.
   (D)   Outdoor recreational uses permitted as part of a special use shall
meet all of the requirements of this section, with the exception that the
permitted post height cannot exceed 80 feet.
   (E)   Conditions relating to the location and hours of operation for outdoor
lighting may be imposed on outdoor recreational uses.
   (F)   No flickering or flashing lights shall be permitted, other than
holiday decorations.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(v))
§ 157.057 YARDS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the minimum yard
dimensions specified hereafter shall not be reduced except through action by
the ZBA.
   (B)   The following yard regulations and standards shall apply to all lots
or tracts of land on which a structure is located.
      (1)   Yards shall be kept unobstructed for their entire depth except as
specified hereafter.
      (2)   Private driveways, service drives, easements, sidewalks, flagpoles,
arbors, trellises, fences, walls, ornamentation, vegetation, columns, light
poles, hydrants, accessory signs, seasonal decorations, and utility devices may
be placed in any yard.
      (3)   Agriculture may be carried on in any yard except as hereinafter
provided.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(w))
§ 157.058 CONTIGUOUS PARCELS.
   When two or more parcels of land, each of which lacks adequate area and
dimension to qualify for a permitted use under the requirements of the zoning
district in which they are located, and are held in one ownership, they shall
be used as one zoning lot.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(x))
§ 157.059 OPEN STORAGE OF JUNK.
   Junk, as herein defined, shall not be stored in an open area. However, this
provision shall exclude lawfully established junkyards or other uses engaged in
collecting and/or processing of scrap iron and other metals.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-5(y)
§ 157.060 CHICKENS/FOWL.
   Specific requirements for chickens/fowl in the R-1 Low Density Residential
and R-2 Multi Family Residential Districts:
   (A)   Roosters shall be prohibited;
   (B)   The slaughtering of chickens/fowl shall not be allowed on-site, except
for humane reasons;
   (C)   Chickens/fowl shall be kept for personal use only and shall be
contained within a coop or enclosure/run at all times;
      (1)   Coop:
         (a)   The structure (coop) behind the rear plane of the existing
dwelling;
         (b)   Located not closer than ten feet from the side and rear yard
property lines;
         (c)   A minimum of 30 feet away from any existing structure on any
adjoining parcel, such as dwellings, patios, porches, gazebos, decks, or
swimming pools, but not including storage structures such as unattached garages
or sheds;
         (d)   The coop shall be covered and ventilated to protect chickens/
fowl from inclement weather and predators; and
         (e)   The coop shall provide a minimum of four square feet per chicken
to allow for free movement. and electric service to the coops shall not be
provided by an extension cord.
      (2)   Fenced enclosure:
         (a)   The enclosure shall provide ten square feet per chicken to allow
for outdoor time;
         (b)   The fenced enclosure or run shall be ten feet from any side or
rear yard property lines;
         (c)   A 50-foot minimum lateral distance from the fenced enclosure to
any well, in clay or loam soils, shall be maintained. For other soils the
County Health Department may be called on for assistance in determining a
proper distance.
   (D)   Coops and fenced enclosures/runs shall be cleaned on a regular basis
and remain free from undue accumulated waste, such as to cause odors reasonably
detectable on adjacent properties;
   (E)   All feed, except when placed for consumption by chickens/fowl, shall
be kept in containers with tightly fitted lids that are rodent-proof; and
   (F)   The number of chicken/fowl shall be allowed on the following minimum
lot sizes.
 
¼ Acre (10,890 Sq Ft) to 2 acres = 6 chickens
2.01 Acres to 9.99 = Not to exceed the density of animal units per acres as
provided in § 157.005 DEFINITIONS.
 
   (G)   Failure to comply with the above restrictions above, as a permitted
use, will require special use approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals in
compliance with the regulation under chickens/fowl subject to the regulations
under §§
157.435 through
157.447.
(Res. LU-25-06, passed 6-26-2025)
LAND USE MATRIX
§ 157.070 LAND USES.
   The following matrix identifies those land uses authorized as either
permitted or special uses as authorized in §§
157.435 through
157.447.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-6(a))
§ 157.071 KEY TO LAND USE MATRIX.
Category Description Category Description
Category Description                 Category Description
A-1      Agriculture preservation    I-1      Light industrial
A-2      Agriculture                 I-2      Heavy industrial
R-1      Low density residential     CON      Conservation
R-2      Medium density residential  P        Permitted
R-R      Rural residential           S        Required special use
C-1      Neighborhood commercial     T        Temporary use
C-2      General Business commercial
 
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-6(a))
§ 157.072 MATRIX.
Principal Uses Zoning Districts
Use            A-1 A-2 R-R R-1 R-2 C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 CONS
Principal Uses                         Zoning Districts
Use                                    A-1 A-2 R-R R-1 R-2 C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 CONS
Accessory dwelling                             P   P   P
Accessory uses                         P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Adaptive reuse of existing structures              S
Adult businesses                                               S
Agriculture                            P   P   P   P   P                   P
Agriculturally-related businesses      S   S                       P   P   S
Agritainment/agritourism               S   S                       S   S   S
Airport; commercial                        S
Airport; private                       S   S
Animal sales barn                          S
Asphalt batching plant                 S/T S/T                 S/T S/T S/T
Auction houses                             S                   P
Automobile car wash                                        P   P
Automobile repair; major                                       S   P
Automobile repair; minor                                       P   P
Automobile service station                 S               S   S/P S/P S/P
Automobile sales                                           S   P
Automobile servicing and parts                             S   P
Automobile wrecking yard                                           S   S
Banks                                                      P   P
Bed and breakfast                          S   S   S   S   P
Borrow pits                            S   S
Bowling alley                                              S   P
Building wrecking yard                                             S   S
Camp/cabin                             P   P                               P
Campground                             S   S                               S
Carnival and circuses                  T   T   T   T   T   T   T   T   T   T
Cemetery                               S   S   S   S   S
Chicken/fowl                           P   P   P   P/S P/S                 P
Christmas tree sales                   T   T   T   T   T   T   T   T   T
Churches                               S   S   S   S   S   S   S
Clinics; medical and dental                    S   S   S   P   P
Clinics; veterinarian                  S   S   S           P   P
Clubs or lodge; private                S   S           S   S   S           S
Commercial retail establishments                       S   S/P S/P S   S
Communication facilities               P/S P/S P/S P/S P/S P/S P/S P/S P/S P/S
Community centers                      S   S   S   S   S   S   S
Contractor/                            S   S                   P   P   P
construction office/storage
Convenience stores                                     S   P   P   S
Crematory                                                      S   P   P
Day care center                            S   S   S   S   S
Day care home                              S   S   S   S   S
Dwellings; multi-family                                P   S
Dwellings; single-family               S/P S/P P   P   P                   S/P
Dwellings; two-family                              P   P
Festivals                              T   T   T   T   T   T   T   T   T
Fireworks stands                                           T   T
Funeral home                                               S   S
Game breeding/shoot preserve           S                                   S
Golf course                                S   S   S   S
Golf driving range                         S   S   S   S   S   P
Governmental; essential                P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Governmental; non- essential           S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S
Gravel pits                            S   S                       S   S   S
Greenhouse; commercial                 S   S   S           S   P
Greenhouse; non- commercial            P   P   P   P   P                   P
Health club/                                               S   S/P
fitness centers
Homes; specialized care facilities             S   S   S   S
Home commercial                        S   S   S
Home occupations                       P   P   P   P   P   P               P
Hospital                                                   S   S   P
Hotel, motel, lodges, resorts                  S       S   S   P
Household appliance; sales and repair                      P   P
Industry; heavy                                                        P
Industry; light                                                S   P   P
Junkyard                                                           S   S
Kennel; commercial                     S   S   S           S   S   S
Kennel; private                        P   P   P   P   P                   P
Landscaping business                   S   S   S               P
Landscape waste composting facilities  S   S                       S   S
Lawn care; chemicals                                           S   P   P
Lawn care; no chemicals                    S   S           S   P   P   P
Manufactured mobile home park              S           S
Manufactured/mobile home; accessory to S   S                               S
agriculture
Manufactured/mobile home; retired or   S   S   S   S   S                   S
disabled parent
Off-premises signs                                             S   S   S
Offices; business and professional                         P   P
On-farm landscape facilities           P   P
Outdoor/                               S   S                   S   S   S   S
indoor paintball facilities
Pet cemetery/                              S   S               S
crematory
Personal service establishment                             P/S P   S   S
Personal storage/recreational building P/S P/S P/S                         P/S
Planned development; non-residential                       S   S   S   S
Planned development; residential           S   S   S   S
Recreational facility, class I         S   S       S           S           S
Recreational facility, class II        S   S                   S   S       S
Recreational facility, class III       S   S                   S   S   S   S
Residential care home; small or large          PS  PS  PS
Restaurants                                            S   S/P P
Retirement community                           S   S   S   S
Roadside sales; grown on premises      T   T   T                           T
Schools; private and public            S   S   S   S   S   S   S
Shooting range; indoor                     S                   P   P   P
Shooting range; outdoor                    S                   S   S   S   S
Signs                                  P   P   P   P   P   P   P/S P/S P/S P
Small wind energy conversion systems   P/S P/S P/S
Stable; private                        P   P   P   S
Stable; public                         S   S   S
Storage facility                                               S   P   P
Swimming pool; public                              S   S   S   P
Taverns                                                    S   S   S
Theaters                                                   P   P
Theaters; drive in                         S
Trucking firm                                                  S   P   P
Warehouse; distribution                                        S   P   P
Warehouse; mini storage                    S               S   P   P   P
Wind energy conversion systems         S   S
 
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-6(a)) (Res. LU-24-09, passed 5-29-2024; Res. LU-25-06,
passed 6-26-2025; Res. LU-25-11, passed 9-24-2025)
§ 157.073 BULK CHART.
Zoning                        Yard Requirements                 Height
District    Lot/Parcel Area                                     Requirements
Designation and Frontage      Principal Accessory               Principal
                                                                Accessory
            Minimum Minimum   Rear Side Maximum  Rear           Maximum Maximum
            Area**  Frontage/ Yard Yard Lot      Yard Side Yard Height  Height
                    Lot Width           Coverage
Districts   Acres   Feet      Feet Feet %        Feet Feet      Feet    Feet
Zoning                         Yard Requirements            Height
District     Lot/Parcel Area                                Requirements
Designation  and Frontage      Principal Accessory          Principal
                                                            Accessory
             Minimum Minimum   Rear Side Maximum  Rear Side Maximum Maximum
             Area**  Frontage/ Yard Yard Lot      Yard Yard Height  Height
                     Lot Width           Coverage
Districts    Acres   Feet      Feet Feet %        Feet Feet Feet    Feet
A-
1            40      200       50   30   N/A      25   15   36      36
Agriculture
Preservation
A-
2            10      200       50   30   N/A      25   15   36      36
Agriculture
RR Rural     2       165       30   30   20       15   15   36      36
Residential
                                                                    25
R-1 Single-                                                         (for
Family       1+      100       20   10   30       5    5    36      parcels
Residential                                                         less than
                                                                    1 acre,
                                                                    20)
                                                                    25
R-                                                                  (for
2 Multiple-  1+      100       20   10   30       5    5    36      parcels
Family                                                              less than
Residential                                                         1 acre,
                                                                    20)
C-
1            0.5     100       20   10   30       5    5    36      36
Neighborhood
Commercial
C-2 General  0.5     100       20   10   30       5    5    36      36
Commercial
I-1 Light    0.5     100       20   15   40       10   10   40      36
Industrial
I-2 Heavy    1       100       20   15   40       10   10   40      36
Industrial
Con -        40      200       50   30   N/A      25   15   36      36
Conservation
**Minimum lot size requirements may vary in each district depending upon the
availability of public water and sewer and the soil types
 
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-6(b)) (Ord. LU-20-01, passed 1-29-2020)
(A-1) AGRICULTURAL PRESERVATION DISTRICT
§ 157.085 PURPOSE.
   The A-1 Zoning District is established to benefit and protect agricultural
uses throughout the county. The intent of the Agriculture Preservation District
is to protect those areas which are best suited to the pursuit of agriculture
in order to ensure that agriculture will continue to be maintained as a long
term land use and a viable economic activity within the county. Non-farm uses,
such as residential home sites on smaller tracts of land, are discouraged from
locating in the A-1 District in order to minimize potential incompatibilities
or restrict the growth of existing agricultural operations.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-7(a))
§ 157.086 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted uses in the A-1 District in accordance with
the applicable regulations set forth in this chapter:
   (A)   Agriculture;
   (B)   Camp/cabin;
   (C)   Communication facilities;
   (D)   Dwellings, single-family detached on a lot not less than 40 acres;
   (E)   Dwellings, single-family detached on a lot not less than one (acre)
and not greater than five (acres) that meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Not located within one-half mile of a livestock feeding operation;
      (2)   Former or existing farmsteads composed of mature trees, grasses,
agricultural buildings, or building foundations;
      (3)   Land unsuitable for farming. The designation of land unsuitable for
farming shall include land that contains at least two of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Highly erodible soils, as defined by the County Soil and Water
Conservation District;
         (b)   Soils with a productivity index rating of less than 125;
         (c)   Land with 50% or more of wooded areas; or
         (d)   Land with 50% of its area with slopes exceeding 5%.
      (4)   The parent parcel from which the new one to five acre lot is to be
created shall be a minimum of 40 acres; and
      (5)   Lot areas that do not conform to these regulations require the
issuance of a special use permit. The number of lots created via a permitted or
special use shall not exceed one for every 40 acres of the original parcel that
existed on January 1, 1998. Lots established after January 1, 1998 and set
aside from the original farm parcels as single-family dwelling lots shall count
in the determination in the number of allowable dwelling lots.
   (F)   Dwellings, single-family detached on a zoning lot of record prior to
March 16, 1978;
   (G)   Dwellings, existing prior to January 1, 1998, may be divided off of an
existing parcel, provided at least one acre is deeded with the residence and
the split meets exception nine of the State Plat Act, being 765 ILCS 205/0.01
et seq., as follows: The sale of a single lot less than five acres from a
larger tract when a survey is made by a state registered land surveyor;
provided, that this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent
lots from the same larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and
configuration of the larger tract on October 1, 1973, and provided also that
this exemption does not invalidate any local requirements applicable to the
subdivision of land.
   (H)   Governmental, essential;
   (I)   Greenhouse, non-commercial;
    (J)   Home occupations;      
   (K)   Kennels, private;
   (L)   On-farm landscape waste composting and mulching facilities located on
farms that are not required to have an Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
(IEPA) permit, provided such uses are operated in compliance with all IEPA
standards pertaining to on-farm landscape composting facilities pursuant to 35
Ill. Adm. Code 830.201 et seq.
   (M)   Shipping/cargo containers subject to the regulations found in §
157.046.
   (N)   Signs in accordance with the provisions as set forth in §§
157.330 through
157.342;
   (O)   Stable, private;
   (P)   Small wind energy systems subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot;
   (Q)   Accessory dwelling; subject to the requirements of §
157.055; and
    (R)   Personal storage building/recreational building, not to exceed 1,200
square feet. Structures larger than 1,200 square feet shall require approval of
a special use request.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-7(b)) (Ord. LU-17-14, passed 11-15-2017; Ord. LU-19-11,
passed 10-30-2019; Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023; Res. LU-25-07, passed 6-26-
2025)
§ 157.087 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be established by a special use in the A-1 District
in accordance with procedures and standards set forth in §§
157.435 through
157.447:
   (A)   Agriculturally-related businesses;
   (B)   Airport, private, landing fields, and heliports, provided that the
location and layout plans have been approved by the state’s Department of
Aeronautics or the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA);
   (C)   Asphalt batching plant;
   (D)   Auction houses;
   (E)   Borrow pits;
   (F)   Campgrounds, provided that they meet all applicable requirements of
the County Health Department and all applicable codes and regulations governing
the installation, construction, and/or operation of swimming pools, sewage
disposal systems, food storage, plumbing, buildings, and structures;
   (G)   Cemetery;
   (H)   Churches;
   (I)   Clinics, veterinarian:
      (1)   Lot size shall be two or more acres if large animals (such as
horses, cows, sheep, llamas, ostriches, and hogs) are to be treated or kept;
      (2)   No treatment rooms or pens for large animals and shall be located
closer than 200 feet from any off-site residential building or 100 feet from
any property line, unless maintained within a completely enclosed building; and
      (3)   No objectionable odors are noticeable at or beyond the lot line.
   (J)   Clubs or lodges, private;
   (K)   Communication facilities;
   (L)   Community center;
   (M)   Contractor/construction office/storage, not exceeding a floor area of
2,400 square feet and all equipment and materials are stored inside a building;
   (N)   Dwellings, single-family detached on parcels less than 40 acres or
that exceed the requirements under §
157.086(F) and at least one acre in size;
   (O)   Game breeding/shoot preserve;
   (P)   Governmental use, non-essential;
   (Q)   Greenhouse, commercial;
   (R)   Gravel pits;
   (S)   Home commercial;
   (T)   Kennels, commercial;
   (U)   Landscaping business, provided:
      (1)   The minimum lot size is two acres; and
      (2)   No retail sales are permitted.
   (V)   Landscape waste composting and mulching facility that require an
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) permit, provided such use(s)
are in compliance with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency standards
pertaining to landscape waste composting facilities pursuant to 35 Ill. Adm.
Code, Subtitle G, Pt. 830, and such use(s) are not located within one-eighth of
a mile of any dwelling, measured from the property line of the proposed site,
other than an on-site dwelling. The application shall include such information
as required pursuant to 35 Ill. Adm. Code, Subtitle G, Pt. 831;
   (W)   Manufactured/mobile home, accessory to agriculture;
   (X)   Manufactured/mobile homes occupied by retired/disabled persons, on the
same lot or tract of land on which a single-family detached dwelling is
occupied as a permanent residence by a family member;
   (Y)   Paintball facilities; provided, that outdoor paintball facilities are
located more than 500 feet from any residential district, adjacent dwelling,
school, church, existing paintball facility, and hunting range;
   (Z)   Recreational facilities, Class I, Class II, and Class III;
   (AA)   Schools, private and public;
   (BB)   Shooting ranges, outdoor;
   (CC)   Stable, public;
   (DD)   Wind energy conversion systems, subject to all regulations as found
in §§
153.01 through
153.11;
   (EE)   Small wind energy systems, subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot;
   (FF)   Banquet facilities;
   (GG)   Personal storage/recreational building, not to exceed 2,500 square
feet. Structures larger than 2,500 square feet shall also require approval of a
variance request.
   (HH)   Adult-use cannabis craft growers, in accordance with Chapter 159,
provided that:
      (1)   A cannabis craft grower shall not be located within 1,000 feet of
property line of a pre-existing public or private preschool, elementary school,
secondary school, day care center, daycare homes, religious institutions, a lot
line containing an pre-existing residence, lot lines of all residential zoning
districts, a residential care home and specialized care facilities.
   (II)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center, in accordance with
Chapter 159, provided that:
      (1)   A cannabis cultivation center shall not be located within 1,000
feet of property line of a pre-existing public or private preschool, elementary
school, secondary school, day care center, daycare homes, religious
institutions, a lot line containing an pre-existing residence, lot lines of all
residential zoning districts, a residential care home and specialized care
facilities;
   (JJ)   Agritainment/agritourism;
   (KK)   Commercial solar energy facility, subject to all regulations as found
in §§
156.01 et seq.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-7(c)) (Ord. LU-16-02, passed 6-29-2016; Ord. LU-16-05,
passed 9-28-2016; Ord. LU-17-14, passed 11-15-2017; Ord. LU-20-03, passed 2-26-
2020; Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023; Res. LU-24-09, passed 5-29-2024; Res.
LU-24-17, passed 8-28-2024; Res. LU-25-07, passed 6-26-2025)
§ 157.088 MINIMUM LOT SIZES.
   Except as provided by special use permit, all uses and structures in the A-
1 Agricultural Preservation District shall have a minimum lot size of 40 acres.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-7(d))
§ 157.089 MINIMUM LOT WIDTH.
   Minimum lot width at building setback line shall be 200 feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-7(e))
§ 157.090 FRONTAGE.
   Except as is provided by special use permit, the minimum road frontage shall
be 200 feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-7(f))
§ 157.091 MINIMUM SETBACKS.
   The following setback standards shall apply in the A-1 District for
principal and accessory structures.
   (A)   Abutting the following roads.
      (1)   Arterial street (highway): 150 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way.
      (2)   Collector street (major): 100 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way.
      (3)   Minor street (minor): 100 feet from the centerline of the right-of-
way.
      (4)   Private street (minor): 100 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a side setback of not less than 30
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a side setback of not less than 15
feet from the property line.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a rear setback of not less than 50
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a rear setback of not less than 25
feet from the property line.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-7(g))
§ 157.092 HEIGHT.
   The following height regulations shall apply in the A-1 District:
   (A)   Principal structures not to exceed 36 feet to the mean height of the
roof; and
   (B)   Accessory structures not to exceed 36 feet to the mean height of the
roof.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-7(h)) (Ord. LU-20-01, passed 1-29-2020)
(A-2) AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 157.105 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The A-2 District is established to protect and maintain agricultural
uses, agricultural economy, the open space and natural features of rural areas,
and preserve agricultural land of the county in order to:
      (1)   Protect lands for continued farming;
      (2)   Allow non-farm residential development on a limited basis; and
      (3)   Minimize conflicts between agricultural and non-agricultural areas.
   (B)   (1)   The A-2 district is also established to protect those
agricultural lands which, due to their location, soils, and use for
agricultural activities, warrant protection from indiscriminate development.
However, their proximity to existing development, combined with pressures for
new development, makes these lands unsuitable for preservation according to the
more restrictive regulations of the A-1 Agricultural Preservation District.
      (2)   The A-2 District is also intended to protect those agricultural
lands that would otherwise be subject to residential subdivision activity which
could render these important farmlands useless for farming.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-8(a))
§ 157.106 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted uses in the A-2 District in accordance with
the applicable regulations as set forth in this chapter:
   (A)   Agriculture;
   (B)   Camp/cabin;
   (C)   Communication facilities;
   (D)   Dwellings, single-family detached on a lot not less than ten acres;
   (E)   Dwellings, single-family detached on a zoning lot of record prior to
March 16, 1978;
   (F)   Dwellings, single-family detached on a lot not less than one (acre),
and not greater than five (acres) that meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Not located within one-half mile of a livestock feeding operation;
      (2)   Former or existing farmsteads composed of mature trees, grasses,
agricultural buildings or building foundations;
      (3)   Land unsuitable for farming. The designation of land unsuitable for
farming shall include land that contains at least two of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Highly erodible soils, as defined by the county’s Soil and Water
Conservation District;
         (b)   Soils with a productivity index rating of less than 125;
         (c)   Land with 50% or more of wooded areas; or
         (d)   Land with 50% of its area with slopes exceeding 5%.
      (4)   (a)   The parent parcel from which the new one to five acre lot is
to be created shall be a minimum of 40 acres. Lot areas that do not conform to
these regulations require the issuance of a special use permit.
         (b)   The number of lots created via a permitted or special use shall
not exceed one for every 40 acres of the original parcel that existed on
January 1, 1998. Lots established after January 1, 1998 and set aside from the
original farm parcels as single-family dwelling lots shall count in the
determination in the number of allowable dwelling lots.
   (G)   (1)   Dwellings, existing prior to January 1, 1998, may be divided off
of an existing parcel, provided at least one acre is deeded with the residence
and the split meets exception nine of the State Plat Act, being 765 ILCS 205/
0.01 et seq., as follows.
      (2)   The sale of a single lot less than five acres from a larger tract
when a survey is made by a state Registered Land Surveyor, provided, that this
exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the same
larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of the
larger tract on October 1, 1973, and provided also that this exemption does not
invalidate any local requirements applicable to the subdivision of land;
   (H)   Governmental, essential;
   (I)   Greenhouse, non-commercial;
   (J)   Home occupations;
   (K)   Kennels, private;
   (L)   On-farm landscape waste composting and mulching facilities located on
farms that are not required to have an Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
(IEPA) permit, provided such uses are operated in compliance with all IEPA
standards pertaining to on-farm landscape composting facilities pursuant to 35
Ill. Adm. Code 830.201 et seq.;
   (M)   Shipping/cargo containers subject to the regulations found in §
157.046.
   (N)   Signs, in accordance with the provisions as set forth in §§
157.330 through
157.342;
   (O)   Stable, private;
   (P)   Small wind energy systems subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot;
   (Q)   Accessory dwelling; subject to the requirements of §
157.055; and
   (R)   Personal storage/recreational building, not to exceed 1,200 square
feet. Structures larger than 1,200 square feet shall require approval of a
special use request
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-8(b)) (Ord. LU-17-14, passed 11-15-2017; Ord. LU-19-11,
passed 10-30-2019; Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023; Res. LU-25-07, passed 6-26-
2025)
§ 157.107 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be established by a special use permit in the A-
2 District in accordance with procedures and standards set forth in §§
157.435 through
157.447:
   (A)   Agriculturally-related businesses;
   (B)   Airport, private or commercial, landing fields, and heliports,
provided that the location and layout plan have been approved by the state’s
Department of Aeronautics or the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA);
   (C)   Animal sales barn;
   (D)   Asphalt batching plant;
   (E)   Auction house;
   (F)   Automobile service station;
   (G)   Bed and breakfast;
   (H)   Borrow pits;
   (I)   Campgrounds, provided that they meet all applicable requirements of
the County Health Department and all applicable codes and regulations governing
the installation, construction, and/or
operation of swimming pools, sewage disposal systems, food storage, plumbing,
buildings, and structures;
   (J)   Cemeteries;
   (K)   Churches;
   (L)   Clinics, veterinarian:
      (1)   Lot size shall be two or more acres if large animals (such as
horses, cows, sheep, llamas, ostriches, and hogs) are to be treated or kept;
      (2)   No treatment rooms or pens for large animals, and shall be located
closer than 200 feet from any off-site residential building or 100 feet from
any property line, unless maintained within a completely enclosed building; and
      (3)   No objectionable odors are noticeable at or beyond the lot line.
   (M)   Clubs or lodges, private;
   (N)   Communication facilities;
   (O)   Community center;
   (P)   Contractor/construction office/storage, not exceeding a floor area of
2,400 square feet, and all equipment and materials are stored inside a
building;
   (Q)   Day care centers;
   (R)   Day care home;
   (S)   Dwellings, single-family detached on parcels less than ten acres or
that exceed the requirements under §
157.106(G) and at least one acre in size;
   (T)   Golf course;
   (U)   Golf driving range;   
   (V)   Governmental, non-essential;
   (W)   Greenhouse, commercial;
   (X)   Gravel pits;
   (Y)   Home commercial;
   (Z)   Kennel, commercial;
   (AA)   Landscaping business, provided the minimum lot size is two acres;
   (BB)   Landscape waste composting and mulching facility that require an
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) permit, provided such use(s)
are in compliance with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency standards
pertaining to landscape waste composting facilities pursuant to 35 Ill. Adm.
Code, Subtitle G, Pt. 830, and such use(s) are not located within one-eighth of
a mile of any dwelling, measured from the property line of the proposed site,
other than an on-site dwelling. The application shall include such information
as required pursuant to 35 Ill. Adm. Code, Subtitle G, Pt. 831;
   (CC)   Lawn care, no chemicals;
   (DD)   Manufactured/mobile homes occupied by retired/disabled persons on the
same lot or tract of land on which a single-family detached dwelling is
occupied as a permanent residence by a family member;
   (EE)   Manufactured/mobile home, accessory to agriculture;
   (FF)   Manufactured/mobile home park;
   (GG)   Paintball facilities, provided that outdoor paintball facilities are
located more than 500 feet from any residential district, adjacent dwelling,
school, church, existing paintball facility, and hunting range;
   (HH)   Personal storage/recreational building, not to exceed 2,500 square
feet. Structures larger than 2,500 square feet shall also require approval of a
variance request.
   (II)   Pet cemeteries/crematories;
   (JJ)   Planned developments, residential;
   (KK)   Recreational facilities, Class I, Class II, and Class III;
   (LL)   Schools, public and private;
   (MM)   Shooting range, indoor;
   (NN)   Shooting range, outdoor;
   (OO)   Stable, public;
   (PP)   Theaters, drive-in;
   (QQ)   Warehouse, mini-storage;
   (RR)   Wind energy conversion systems, subject to all regulations as found
in §§
153.01 through
153.11;
   (SS)   Small wind energy systems, subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot;
   (TT)   Banquet facilities;
   (UU)   Personal recreational building, not to exceed 2,500 square feet;
   (VV)   Adult-use cannabis craft growers, in accordance with
Chapter 159, provided that: a cannabis craft grower shall not be located within
1,000 feet of property line of a pre-existing public or private preschool,
elementary school, secondary school, day care center, daycare homes, religious
institutions, a lot line containing an pre-existing residence, lot lines of all
residential zoning districts, a residential care home and specialized care
facilities;
   (WW)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center, in accordance with
Chapter 159, provided that: a cannabis cultivation center shall not be located
within 1,000 feet of property line of a pre-existing public or private
preschool, elementary school, secondary school, day care center, daycare homes,
religious institutions, a lot line containing an pre-existing residence, lot
lines of all residential zoning districts, a residential care home and
specialized care facilities;
   (XX)   Agritainment/agritourism; and
   (YY)   Commercial solar energy facility, subject to all regulations as found
in §§
156.01 et seq.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-8(c)) (Ord. LU-17-14, passed 11-15-2017; Ord. LU-20-03,
passed 2-26-2020; Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023; Res. LU-24-09, passed 5-29-
2024; Res. LU-24-17, passed 8-28-2024; Res. LU-25-07, passed 6-26-2025)
§ 157.108 MINIMUM LOT SIZES.
   Except as provided by special use permit, all uses and structures in the A-
2 Agricultural District shall have a minimum lot size of ten acres.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-8(d))
§ 157.109 MINIMUM LOT WIDTH.
   Minimum lot width at the building setback line shall be 200 feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-8(e))
§ 157.110 FRONTAGE.
   Except as provided by special use permit, the minimum road frontage shall be
200 feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-8(f))
§ 157.111 MINIMUM SETBACKS.
   The following setback standards shall apply in the A-2 District for
principal and accessory structures which abut the following.
   (A)   Abutting the following roads.
      (1)   Arterial street (highway): 150 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way.
      (2)   Collector street (major): 100 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way.
      (3)   Minor street (minor): 100 feet from the centerline of the right-of-
way.
      (4)   Private street (minor): 100 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a side setback of not less than 30
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a side setback of not less than 15
feet from the property line.   
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a rear setback of not less than 50
feet from the property line.
      (2)    Accessory structures shall have a rear setback of not less than 25
feet from the property line.
   (D)   Properties located within Mackinaw Valley Park Subdivision in Sand
Prairie Township shall adhere to the setback requirements found in §
157.150. Further, no more than 30% of the area of the lot shall be occupied by
structures.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-8(g)) (Ord. LU-18-02, passed 4-25-2018)
§ 157.112 HEIGHT.
   The following height regulations shall apply in the A-2 District:
   (A)   Principal structures not to exceed 36 feet to the mean height of the
roof;
   (B)   Accessory structures shall not exceed 36 feet to the mean height of
the roof; and
   (C)   Properties located within Mackinaw Valley Park Subdivision in Sand
Prairie Township shall adhere to the height requirements as found in §
157.152.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-8(h)) (Ord. LU-18-02, passed 4-25-2018; Ord. LU-20-01,
passed 1-29-2020)
(RR) RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 157.125 PURPOSE.
   The Rural Residential District is established to provide an opportunity for
rural residential development in areas normally outside the reach of public
facilities. Lot sizes in the Rural Residential District are designed to be
large enough to allow for the proper installation and operation of individual
well and septic systems, while maintaining the character of the rural
surroundings.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-9(a))
§ 157.126 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted uses in the Rural Residential District in
accordance with the applicable regulations set forth in this chapter:
   (A)   Accessory dwellings;
   (B)   Agriculture, provided:
      (1)   Farm animals shall not be raised, placed, maintained, or bred on
any zoning lot at a density in excess of one animal unit per acre, as deemed
suitable, to be rounded to the nearest whole number;
      (2)   A fence, pen, shelter, corral, or similar enclosure shall be
provided of sufficient height and strength to retain the animals on their own
premises; and
      (3)   Manure shall be collected and maintained in a sanitary manner so as
to prevent offensive odors, fly breeding, or other nuisances. The debris shall
not be allowed to accumulate and shall be not admitted to the sanitary sewer
system.
   (C)   Communication facilities;
   (D)   Dwellings, single-family;
   (E)   Governmental, essential;
   (F)   Greenhouse, non-commercial;
   (G)   Home occupation;
   (H)   Kennel, private;
   (I)   Residential care homes, small;
   (J)   Signs, in accordance with the provisions as set forth in §§
157.330 through
157.342;
   (K)   Stable, private; in accordance with division (B) above;
   (L)   Small wind energy systems subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot;
   (M)   Personal storage/recreational building, not to exceed 1200 square
feet. Structures larger than 1200 square feet shall require approval of a
special use request; and
   (N)   Accessory dwelling; subject to the requirements of §
157.055.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-9(b)) (Ord. LU-17-14, passed 11-15-2017; Res. LU-23-02,
passed 1-25-2023; Res. LU-23-07, passed 5-31-2023; Res. LU-25-11, passed 9-24-
2025)
§ 157.127 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be established by a special use permit in the Rural
Residential District in accordance with procedures and standards set forth in
§§
157.435 through
157.447:
   (A)   Bed and breakfast;
   (B)   Cemeteries;
   (C)   Churches;
   (D)   Clinics, medical and dental;
   (E)   Clinics, veterinarian; provided:
      (1)   Lot size shall be two or more acres if large animals (such as
horses, cows, sheep, llamas, ostriches, and hogs) are to be treated or kept;
      (2)   No treatment rooms or pens for large animals, and shall be located
closer than 200 feet from any off-site residential building or 100 feet from
any property line, unless maintained within a completely enclosed building; and
      (3)   No objectionable odors are noticeable at or beyond the lot line.
   (F)   Community centers;
   (G)   Communication facilities;
   (H)   Day care center;
   (I)   Day care home;
   (J)   Golf course;
   (K)   Golf driving range;
   (L)   Governmental, non-essential;
   (M)   Greenhouse, commercial;
   (N)   Home, commercial;
   (O)   Hotels, motels, lodges, or resorts;
   (P)   Homes, specialized care facilities;
   (Q)   Kennel, commercial;
   (R)   Landscaping business;
   (S)   Lawn care, no chemicals;
   (T)   Manufactured/mobile homes occupied by retired/disabled parent, on the
same lot or tract of land on which a single-family detached dwelling is
occupied as a permanent residence by a family member;
   (U)   Pet cemetery/crematory;
   (V)   Planned development, residential;
   (W)   Residential care home, large;
   (X)   Retirement community;
   (Y)   Schools, private and public;
   (Z)   Stable, public;
   (AA)   Small wind energy systems subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot;
   (BB)   Banquet facilities; and
   (CC)   Personal storage/recreational building, not to exceed 2,500 square
feet. Structures larger than 2,500 square feet shall also require approval of a
variance request.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-9(c)) (Ord. LU-17-14, passed 11-15-2017; Res. LU-23-02,
passed 1-25-2023; Res. LU-23-07, passed 5-31-2023; Res. LU-25-11, passed 9-24-
2025)
§ 157.128 MINIMUM LOT SIZES.
   Except as provided by special use permit, all uses and structures in the
Rural Residential District shall have a minimum lot size of two acres.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-9(d))
§ 157.129 MINIMUM LOT WIDTH.
   Minimum lot width at the building setback line shall be 165 feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-9(e))
§ 157.130 MINIMUM SETBACKS.
   The following setback standards shall apply in the Rural Residential
District for principal and accessory structures which abut the following.
   (A)   Roads.
      (1)   Arterial street (highway): 135 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   Collector street (major): 100 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is
greater.
      (3)   Minor street (minor): 70 feet from the centerline of the right-of-
way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Private street (minor): 70 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a side setback of not less than 30
feet from the property line.     
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a side setback of not less than 15
feet from the property line.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a rear setback of not less than 30
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a rear setback of not less than 15
feet from the property line.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-9(f))
§ 157.131 LOT COVERAGE.
   No more than 20% of the area of the lot shall be occupied by structures.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-9(g))
§ 157.132 HEIGHT.
   The following height regulations shall apply in the Rural Residential
District:
   (A)   Principal structures not to exceed 36 feet to the mean height of the
roof; and
   (B)   Accessory structures shall not exceed 36 feet to the mean height of
the roof.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-9(h)) (Ord. LU-20-01, passed 1-29-2020)
(R-1) LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 157.145 PURPOSE.
   The R-1 Low Density Residential District is designed for single-family and
two-family residential housing opportunities, and to provide for the efficient
use and orderly development of vacant land designated for residential uses. The
R-1 District may be served by either individual septic systems or public sewer
based upon requirements established by the County Health Department. The R-
1 District is intended to be located within the community growth areas that
have been designated in the county’s land use plan.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-10(a))
§ 157.146 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted uses in the R-1 District in accordance with
the applicable regulations set forth in this chapter:
   (A)   Accessory structures on properties prior to the principal structure,
not to exceed a total of 250 square feet, and shall be placed in the rear
quarter of the property as approved by the Community Development Administrator
and in accordance with accessory structure setback requirements;
   (B)   Accessory dwellings;
   (C)   Agriculture on a lot not less than ten acres;
   (D)   Chickens/fowl compliant with the regulation under §
157.060;
   (E)   Communication facilities;
   (F)   Dwellings, single-family and two-family;
   (G)   Governmental, essential;
   (H)   Gardens, greenhouse, non-commercial;
   (I)   Home occupation;
   (J)   Kennel, private;
   (K)   Residential care homes, small; and
   (L)   Signs, in accordance with the provisions as set forth in §§
157.330 through
157.342.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-10(b)) (Res. LU-25-06, passed 6-26-2025)
§ 157.147 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be established by a special use permit in the R-
1 District in accordance with procedures and standards set forth in §§
157.435 through
157.447:
   (A)   Accessory structures prior to the principal structure, not to exceed a
total of 1,200 square feet. The accessory structure shall be used only for
personal storage and for equipment necessary to maintain the property;
   (B)   Adaptive reuse of existing structures;
   (C)   Bed and breakfast;
   (D)   Cemeteries;
   (E)   Chickens/fowl subject to the regulations under §§
157.435 through
157.447, requirements for particular special uses chicken and fowl;
   (F)   Churches;
   (G)   Clinics, medical and dental;
   (H)   Community centers;
   (I)   Communication facilities;
   (J)   Day care center;
   (K)   Day care home;   
   (L)   Golf course;
   (M)   Golf driving range;
   (N)   Governmental, non-essential;
   (O)   Homes, specialized care facilities;
   (P)   Manufactured/mobile homes, retired/disabled parent on the same lot or
tract of land on which a single-family detached dwelling is occupied as a
permanent residence by a family member;
   (Q)   Planned development, residential;
   (R)   Recreational facilities, Class I;
   (S)   Residential care home; large;
   (T)   Retirement community;
   (U)   Schools, private and public;
   (V)   Stables, private, on a zoning lot of two acres or more; provided:
      (1)   Equines shall not be raised, placed, maintained, or bred on a
zoning lot at a density in excess of one animal unit per acre as deemed
suitable;
      (2)   A fence, pen, shelter, corral, or similar enclosure shall be
provided of sufficient height and strength to retain the equines on their own
premises; and
      (3)   Manure shall be collected and maintained in a sanitary manner so as
to prevent offensive odors, fly breeding, or other nuisances. The debris shall
not be allowed to accumulate and shall be not admitted to the sanitary sewer
system.
   (W)   Swimming pool, public.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-10(c)) (Ord. LU-18-06, passed 6-27-2018; Res. LU-23-07,
passed 5-31-2023; Res. LU-25-06, passed 6-26-2025)
§ 157.148 MINIMUM LOT SIZES.
   Except as provided by special use permit, all uses and structures in the R-
1 Low Density Residential District shall have the minimum lot size as set forth
below:
   (A)   Single-family dwelling served by both a public water system and public
sewer system: one-half acre;
   (B)   Single-family dwelling served by a public sewer system or by a public
water system: three- quarters of an acre, unless larger lot sizes are required
by the county’s septic ordinance;
   (C)   Single-family dwelling not served by both a public water system and
public sewer system: one acre, unless larger lot sizes are required by the
county’s septic ordinance;
   (D)   Single-family dwelling not served by both a public water system and
public sewer system and having one or more closed loop well(s): one and one-
half acres, unless larger lot sizes are required by the county’s septic
ordinance;
   (E)   Two-family dwelling served by both a public water system and public
sewer system: three- quarters acre;
   (F)   Two-family dwelling served by a public sewer system or by a public
water system: three- quarters acre unless larger lot sizes are required by the
county’s septic ordinance;
   (G)   Two-family dwelling not served by both a public water system and
public sewer system: one and one-half acres, unless larger lot sizes are
required by the county’s septic ordinance; and
   (H)   Two-family dwelling not served by both a public water system and
public sewer system and having one or more closed loop well(s): two acres,
unless larger lot sizes are required by the county’s septic ordinance.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-10(d))
§ 157.149 MINIMUM LOT WIDTH.
   Minimum lot width at the building setback line shall be 100 feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-10(e))
§ 157.150 MINIMUM SETBACKS.
   The following setback standards shall apply in the R-1 District for
principal and accessory structures which abut the following.
   (A)   Roads.
      (1)   Arterial street (highway): 90 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   Collector street (major): 60 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Minor street (minor): 50 feet from the centerline of the right-of-
way, or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Private street (minor): 50 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a side setback of not less than ten
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a side setback of not less than
five feet from the property line.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a rear setback of not less than 20
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a rear setback of not less than
five feet from the property line.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-10(f))
§ 157.151 LOT COVERAGE.
   No more than 30% of the area of the lot shall be occupied by structures.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-10(g))
§ 157.152 HEIGHT.
   The following height regulations shall apply in the R-1 District:
   (A)   Principal structures not to exceed 36 feet to the mean height of the
roof; and
   (B)   Accessory structures on parcels less than one acre shall not exceed 20
feet to the mean height of the roof.
   (C)   Accessory structures on parcels more than one acre shall not exceed 25
feet to the mean height of the roof.
   (D)   Accessory structures shall not exceed the building height of an
existing principal structure located on the lot in question.
   (E)   In the event principal building has not yet been constructed on the
lot in question no accessory structure shall exceed 20 feet regardless of lot
size.
(R-2) MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 157.165 PURPOSE.
   The R-2 Multi-Family Residential District is designed for single-family,
two-family, and multiple- family residential housing opportunities and to
provide for the efficient use and orderly development of vacant land designated
for residential uses. The R-2 District is intended to be located in areas where
central utilities, facilities, and services exist or could logically be
extended in the near future. These areas are normally contained within the
community growth areas that have been designated in the county’s land use plan.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-11(a))
§ 157.166 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are as permitted uses in the R-2 District, in accordance
with the applicable regulations set forth in this chapter:
   (A)   Accessory structures on properties prior to the principal structure,
not to exceed a total of 250 square feet, and shall be placed in the rear
quarter of the property as approved by the Community Development Administrator
and in accordance with accessory structure setback requirements;
   (B)   Accessory dwellings;
   (C)   Agriculture on a lot not less than ten acres;
   (D)   Chickens/fowl compliant with the regulation under §
157.060;
   (E)   Communication facilities;
   (F)   Dwellings, multi-family;
   (G)   Dwellings, single-family;
   (H)   Dwellings, two-family;   
   (I)   Governmental, essential;
   (J)   Greenhouse, non-commercial;
   (K)   Home occupation;
   (L)   Kennel, private;
   (M)   Residential care homes, small; and
   (N)   Signs, in accordance with the provisions as set forth in §§
157.330 through
157.342.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-11(b)) (Res. LU-25-06, passed 6-26-2025; Res. LU-25-11,
passed 9-24-2025)
§ 157.167 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be established by a special use permit in the R-
2 District in accordance with procedures and standards set forth in §§
157.435 through
157.447:
   (A)   Accessory structures prior to the principal structure, not to exceed a
total of 1,200 square feet. The accessory structure shall be used only for
personal storage and for equipment necessary to maintain the property;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast;
   (C)   Cemeteries;
   (D)   Churches;
   (E)   Clinics, medical and dental;
   (F)   Clubs or lodges, private;
   (G)   Commercial retail establishments;
   (H)   Community centers;
   (I)   Communication facilities;
   (J)   Convenience stores;
   (K)   Day care center;
   (L)   Day care home;
   (M)   Golf course;
   (N)   Golf driving range;
   (O)   Governmental, non-essential;
   (P)   Homes, specialized care facilities;
   (Q)   Hotels, motels, lodges, and resorts;
   (R)   Manufactured/mobile home park;
   (S)   Manufactured/mobile homes, retired/disabled parent on the same lot or
tract of land on which a single-family detached dwelling is occupied as a
permanent residence by a family member;
   (T)   Planned development, residential;
   (U)   Residential care home, large;
   (V)   Retirement community;
   (W)   Restaurants, not exceeding 5,000 square feet;
   (X)   Schools, private and public; and
   (Y)   Swimming pool, public.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-11(c)) (Res. LU-23-07, passed 5-31-2023; Res. LU-25-11,
passed 9-24-2025)
§ 157.168 MINIMUM LOT SIZES.
   All uses and structures in the R-2 Low Density Residential District shall
have the minimum lot sizes as set forth below:
   (A)   Single-family and two-family dwellings served by both a public water
system and public sewer system: one-quarter acre. For three or more dwelling
units per lot, add 3,000 square feet per additional dwelling unit to the
minimum lot size;
   (B)   Single-family and two-family dwellings served by a public sewer system
or by a public water system: one-half acre, unless larger lot sizes are
required by the county’s septic ordinance. For three or more dwelling units per
lot, add 3,000 square feet per additional dwelling unit to the minimum lot
size;
   (C)   Single-family and two-family dwellings not served by a public water
system and public sewer system: one acre unless larger lot sizes are required
by the county’s septic ordinance. For three or more dwelling units per lot, add
3,000 square feet per additional dwelling unit to the minimum lot size; and
   (D)   Single-family and two-family dwellings not served by a public water
system and public sewer system and having one more closed loop well(s): one and
one-half acres unless larger lot sizes are required by the county’s septic
ordinance. For three or more dwelling units per lot, add 3,000 square feet per
additional dwelling unit to the minimum lot size.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-11(d))
§ 157.169 MINIMUM LOT WIDTH.
   Minimum lot width at the building setback line shall be 100 feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-11(e))
§ 157.170 MINIMUM SETBACKS.
   The following setback standards shall apply in the R-2 District for
principal and accessory structures which abut the following.
   (A)   Roads.
      (1)   Arterial street (highway): 90 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   Collector street (major): 60 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Minor street (minor): 50 feet from the centerline of the right-of-
way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Private street (minor): 50 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a side setback of not less than ten
feet from the property line.     
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a side setback of not less than
five feet from the property line.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a rear setback of not less than 20
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a rear setback of not less than
five feet from the property line.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-11(f))
§ 157.171 LOT COVERAGE.
   Not more than 30% of the area of the lot shall be occupied by structures.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-11(g))
§ 157.172 HEIGHT.
   The following height regulations shall apply in the R-2 District:
   (A)   Principal structures not to exceed 36 feet to the mean height of the
roof; and
   (B)   Accessory structures on parcels less than one acre shall not exceed 20
feet to the mean height of the roof.
   (C)   Accessory structures on parcels more than one acre shall not exceed 25
feet to the mean height of the roof.
   (D)   Accessory structures shall not exceed the building height of an
existing principal structure located on the lot in question.
   (E)   In the event the principal structure has not yet been constructed on
the lot in question no accessory structure shall exceed 20 feet to the mean
height regardless of lot size.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-11(h)) (Ord. LU-20-01, passed 1-29-2020)
(C-1) NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 157.185 PURPOSE.
   The C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District is designed to provide commercial
areas for the convenience of adjacent residential areas, and to permit only
such uses as are necessary to satisfy the day to day shopping and service needs
of persons residing in the district and adjacent areas.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-12(a))
§ 157.186 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted uses in the C-1 District, in accordance
with applicable regulations set forth in this chapter:
   (A)   Accessory structures and uses;
   (B)   Automobile car wash;
   (C)   Banks;
   (D)   Bed and breakfasts;
   (E)   Clinics, medical and dental;
   (F)   Clinics, veterinarian:
      (1)   Lot size shall be two or more acres if large animals (such as
horses, cows, sheep, llamas, ostriches, and hogs) are to be treated or kept;
      (2)   No treatment rooms or pens for large animals, and shall be located
closer than 200 feet from any off-site residential building or 100 feet from
any property line, unless maintained within a completely enclosed building; and
      (3)   No objectionable odors are noticeable at or beyond the lot line.
   (G)   Commercial retail establishments, not exceeding a floor area of 3,000
square feet;
   (H)   Communication facilities;
   (I)   Convenience store;
   (J)   Governmental, essential;
   (K)   Home occupations;
   (L)   Household appliance; sales and repair;
   (M)   Offices, business and professional;
   (N)   Personal service establishment, not exceeding a floor area of 5,000
square feet;
   (O)   Restaurants, not exceeding 5,000 square feet;
   (P)   Shipping/cargo containers subject to the regulations found in §
157.046.
   (Q)   Signs, in accordance with the provisions as set forth in §§
157.330 through
157.342;
   (R)   Small wind energy systems subject to all regulations as found §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot; and
   (S)   Theaters.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-12(b)) (Ord. LU-19-11, passed 10-30-2019)
§ 157.187 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be established by a special use permit in the C-
1 District, in accordance with the standards set forth in §§
157.435 through
157.447:
   (A)   Automobile service station;
   (B)   Automobile sales;
   (C)   Automobile servicing and parts;
   (D)   Bowling alley;
   (E)   Churches;
   (F)   Clubs or lodges, private;
   (G)   Commercial retail establishments, exceeding 3,000 square feet;
   (H)   Communication facilities;
   (I)   Community centers;
   (J)   Day care centers;
   (K)   Day care home;
   (L)   Dwellings multi-family;
   (M)   Funeral home;
   (N)   Golf driving range;
   (O)   Governmental, non-essential;
   (P)   Greenhouse, commercial;
   (Q)   Health club and fitness center, not exceeding a floor area of 15,000
square feet;
   (R)   Homes, specialized care facilities;
   (S)   Hospitals;
   (T)   Hotels, motels, lodges, and resorts;
   (U)   Kennel, commercial;
   (V)   Lawn care, no chemicals;
   (W)   Personal service establishment, with a floor area of more than 5,000
square feet;
   (X)   Planned development, non-residential;
   (Y)   Restaurants, exceeding 5,000 square feet;
   (Z)   Retirement community;
   (AA)   Schools, private and public;
   (BB)   Small wind energy systems subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot;
   (CC)   Swimming pool, public;
   (DD)    Taverns, provided that such establishment is located no closer than
500 feet, measured from property line to property line, from any residential
district, religious institution, or school;
   (EE)   Warehouse, mini-storage; and
   (FF)   Vide gaming parlor, subject to the requirements of the State of
Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40. Such establishment shall not be located
within 100 feet of a school or a place of worship under the Religious
Corporation Act.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-12(c)) (Ord. LU-18-11, passed 8-29-2018)
§ 157.188 MINIMUM LOT SIZES.
   Except as provided by special use permit, all uses and structures in the C-
1 District shall have the minimum lot size as set forth below:
   (A)   Minimum lot size shall be one-half acre for lots served by public
water and sewer; and
   (B)   Minimum lot size shall be one acre for lots which are required to be
served by a private septic system.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-12(d))
§ 157.189 MINIMUM LOT WIDTH.
   Minimum lot width at the building setback line shall be 100 feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-12(e))
§ 157.190 MINIMUM SETBACKS.
   The following setback standards shall apply in the C-1 District for
principal and accessory structures.
   (A)   Abutting the following roads.
      (1)   Arterial street (highway): 100 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   Collector street (major): 60 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Minor street (minor): 50 feet from the centerline of the right-of-
way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Private street (minor): 50 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a side setback of not less than ten
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a side setback of not less than
five feet from the property line.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a rear setback of not less than 20
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a rear setback of not less than
five feet from the property line.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-12(f))
§ 157.191 LOT COVERAGE.
   Not more than 30% of the area of the lot shall be occupied by structures.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-12(g))
§ 157.192 HEIGHT.
   The following height regulations shall apply in the C-1 District:
   (A)   Principal structures not to exceed 36 feet to the mean height of the
roof; and
   (B)   Accessory structures shall not exceed 36 feet to the mean height of
the roof.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-12(h)) (Ord. LU-20-01, passed 1-29-2020)
(C-2) GENERAL BUSINESS COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 157.205 PURPOSE.
   The C-2 General Business Commercial District is designed to accommodate a
range of commercial uses and is intended to provide for the need of a larger
consumer population than is served in the neighborhood business district. Due
to the higher intensity of these uses, and the amount of automobile and truck
traffic that they typically generate, it is intended that the C-2 District be
located only along major and minor collectors and arterial streets.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-13(a))
§ 157.206 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted uses in the C-2 District, in accordance
with the applicable regulations set forth in this chapter:
   (A)   Accessory structures and uses;
   (B)   Auction houses;
   (C)   Automobile car wash;
   (D)   Automobile repair, minor;
   (E)   Automobile service station;
      (1)   Provided that no more than four fuel stations and no more than two
service bays are provided; and
      (2)   Any accessory retail establishment is less than 5,000 square feet.
   (F)   Automobile sales;
   (G)   Automobile servicing and parts;
   (H)   Banks;
   (I)   Bowling alleys;
   (J)   Clinics, medical and dental;
   (K)   Clinics, veterinarian;
   (L)   Commercial retail establishments not exceeding 5,000 square feet;
   (M)   Communication facilities;
   (N)   Contractors/construction office/storage;
   (O)   Convenience stores;
   (P)   Golf driving range;
   (Q)   Governmental, essential;
   (R)   Greenhouse, commercial;
   (S)   Health club and fitness centers, not exceeding a floor area of 15,000
square feet;
   (T)   Hotels, motels, lodges, and resorts;
   (U)   Household appliance, sales and repair;
   (V)   Landscaping business;
   (W)   Lawn care, chemicals;   
   (X)   Offices, business and professional;
   (Y)   Personal service establishment;
   (Z)   Restaurants;
   (AA)    Shipping/cargo containers subject to the regulations found in §
157.046.
   (BB)   Shooting range, indoor;
   (CC)   Signs;
   (DD)   Small wind energy systems subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot;
   (EE)   Swimming pool, public;
   (FF)   Theaters;
   (GG)   Warehouse, mini storage; and
   (HH)   Video gaming parlor, subject to the requirements of the State of
Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40. Such establishment shall not be located
within 100 feet of a school or a place of worship under the Religious
Corporation Act.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-13(b)) (Ord. LU-18-11, passed 8-29-2018; Ord. LU-19-11,
passed 10-30-2019)
§ 157.207 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be established by a special use permit in the C-
2 District, in accordance with procedures and standards set forth in §§
157.435 through
157.447:
   (A)   Adult entertainment establishment;
   (B)   Asphalt batching plant;
   (C)   Automobile repair, major;
   (D)   Automobile service station, provided that:
      (1)   More than four fuel stations and/or more than two service bays are
provided; and/or
      (2)   Any accessory retail establishment is more than 5,000 square feet.
   (E)   Churches;
   (F)   Clubs or lodges, private;
   (G)   Commercial retail establishments, exceeding 5,000 square feet;
   (H)   Communication facilities;
   (I)   Community centers;
   (J)   Crematory;
   (K)   Funeral home;
   (L)   Governmental, non-essential;
   (M)   Health club and fitness center, exceeding a floor area of 15,000
square feet;
   (N)   Hospital;
   (O)   Industry, light;
   (P)   Kennel, commercial;
   (Q)   Lawn care, no chemicals;
   (R)   Off-premises signs;
   (S)   Paintball facilities, indoor and outdoor; provided that outdoor
paintball facilities are located more than 500 feet from any residential
district, adjacent dwelling, school, church, existing paintball facility, and
hunting range;
   (T)   Pet cemetery/crematory;
   (U)   Planned development, non-residential;
   (V)   Recreational facilities, Class I, Class II, and Class III;
   (W)   Schools, private and public;
   (X)   Shooting range, outdoor;
   (Y)   Small wind energy systems subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot;
   (Z)   Storage facility;
   (AA)   Taverns, provided that such establishment is located no closer than
500 feet, measured from property line to property line, from any residential
district, religious institution, or school;
   (BB)   Trucking firm; and
   (CC)   Warehouse, distribution.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-13(c))
§ 157.208 MINIMUM LOT SIZES.
   Except as provided by special use permit, all uses and structures in the C-
2 District shall have the minimum lot size as set forth below:
   (A)   Minimum lot size shall be one-half acre for lots served by public
water and sewer; and
   (B)   Minimum lot size shall be one acre for lots which are required to be
served by a private septic system.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-13(d))
§ 157.209 MINIMUM LOT WIDTH.
   Minimum lot width at the building setback line shall be 100 feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-13(e))
§ 157.210 MINIMUM SETBACKS.
   The following setback standards shall apply in the C-2 District for
principal and accessory structures.
   (A)   Abutting the following roads.
      (1)   Arterial street (highway): 100 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   Collector street (major): 60 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Minor street (minor): 50 feet from the centerline of the right-of-
way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Private street (minor): 50 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a side setback of not less than ten
feet from the property line.        
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a side setback of not less than
five feet from the property line.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a rear setback of not less than 20
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a rear setback of not less than
five feet from the property line.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-13(f))
§ 157.211 LOT COVERAGE.
   No more than 30% of the area of the lot shall be occupied by structures.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-13(g))
§ 157.212 HEIGHT.
   The following height regulations shall apply in the C-2 District:
   (A)   Principal structures not to exceed 36 feet to the mean height of the
roof; and
   (B)   Accessory structures shall not exceed 36 feet to the mean height of
the roof.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-13(h)) (Ord. LU-20-01, passed 1-29-2020)
(I-1) LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 157.225 PURPOSE.
   The I-1 Light Industrial District is designed to provide for light
industrial, storage, wholesale, warehousing, research, administrative, and
related uses and be located in such areas that they do not create serious
problems of compatibility with other kinds of land uses.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-14(a))
§ 157.226 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted uses in the I-1 District, in accordance
with the applicable regulations set forth in this chapter:
   (A)   Accessory structures and uses;
   (B)   Agriculturally related business;
   (C)   Automobile repair, major;
   (D)   Automobile repair, minor;
   (E)   Automobile service station, provided that major or minor automobile
repair is conducted as part of the use;
   (F)   Crematory;
   (G)   Communication facilities;
   (H)   Contractors/construction office and storage;
   (I)   Governmental essential;
   (J)   Hospital;
   (K)   Industry, light;
   (L)   Lawn care, chemicals;
   (M)   Lawn care, no chemicals;
   (N)   Shipping/cargo containers subject to the regulations found in §
157.046.
   (O)   Shooting range, indoor;
   (P)   Signs, in accordance with the provisions as set forth in §§
157.330 through
157.342;
   (Q)   Small wind energy systems subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot;
   (R)   Storage facility;
   (S)   Trucking firm;
   (T)   Warehouse, distribution; and
   (U)   Warehouse, mini storage.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-14(b)) (Ord. LU-19-11, passed 10-30-2019)
§ 157.227 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be established by a special use permit in the I-
1 District, in accordance with procedures and standards set forth in §§
157.435 through
157.447:
   (A)   Automobile service station, when major or minor automobile repair is
not conducted as part of the use;
   (B)   Automobile wrecking yard;
   (C)   Asphalt batching plant;
   (D)   Building wrecking yard;
   (E)   Commercial retail establishments;
   (F)   Convenience store;
   (G)   Communication facilities;
   (H)   Governmental, non-essential;
   (I)   Gravel pits;
   (J)   Junkyard;
   (K)   Kennel, commercial;
   (L)   Landscape waste composting and mulching facility, that are required to
have an Illinois Environmental Protection Agency permit;
   (M)   Landscape waste composting and mulching facility, that are not
required to have an Illinois Environmental Protection Agency permit;
   (N)   Off-premises signs;
   (O)   Paintball facilities, indoor and outdoor; provided that outdoor
paintball facilities are located more than 500 feet from any residential
district, adjacent dwelling, school, church, existing paintball facility, and
hunting range;
   (P)   Personal service establishment;
   (Q)   Planned development, non-residential;
   (R)   Recreational facilities, Class II and Class III;
   (S)   Shooting range, outdoor;
   (T)   Small wind energy systems subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot; and
   (U)    Taverns, provided that such establishment is located no closer than
500 feet, measured from property line to property line, from any residential
district, religious institution, or school.
   (V)   Adult-use cannabis craft growers, in accordance with
Chapter 159, provided that: a cannabis craft grower shall not be located within
1,000 feet of property line of a pre-existing public or private preschool,
elementary school, secondary school, day care center, daycare homes, religious
institutions, a lot line containing an pre-existing residence, lot lines of all
residential zoning districts, a residential care home and specialized care
facilities.
   (X)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center, in accordance with
Chapter 159, provided that: a cannabis cultivation center shall not be located
within 1,000 feet of property line of a pre-existing public or private
preschool, elementary school, secondary school, day care center, daycare homes,
religious institutions, a lot line containing an pre-existing residence, lot
lines of all residential zoning districts, a residential care home and
specialized care facilities.
   (Y)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations, in accordance with
Chapter 159, provided that: a cannabis dispensing organization shall not be
located within 1,000 feet of property line of a pre-existing public or private
preschool, elementary school, secondary school, day care center, daycare homes,
religious institutions, a lot line containing an pre-existing residence, lot
lines of all residential zoning districts, a residential care home and
specialized care facilities.
   (Z)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization, in accordance with
Chapter 159, provided that: a cannabis infuser organization shall not be
located within 1,000 feet of property line of a pre-existing public or private
preschool, elementary school, secondary school, day care center, daycare homes,
religious institutions, a lot line containing an pre-existing residence, lot
lines of all residential zoning districts, a residential care home and
specialized care facilities.
   (AA)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization, in accordance with
Chapter 159, provided that: a cannabis processing organization shall not be
located within 1,000 feet of property line of a pre-existing public or private
preschool, elementary school, secondary school, day care center, daycare homes,
religious institutions, a lot line containing an pre-existing residence, lot
lines of all residential zoning districts, a residential care home and
specialized care facilities.
   (BB)   Agritainment/agritourism.
   (CC)   Commercial solar energy facility, subject to all regulations as found
in §§
156.01 et seq.
   (DD)   Wind energy conversion systems, subject to all regulations as found
in §§
153.01 through
153.11.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-14(c)) (Ord. LU-20-03, passed 2-26-2020; Res. LU-24-09,
passed 5-29-2024; Res. LU-24-17, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 157.228 MINIMUM LOT SIZES.
   Except as provided by special use permit, all uses and structures in the I-
1 District shall have the minimum lot size as set forth below:
   (A)   Minimum lot size shall be one-half acre for lots served by public
water and sewer; and
   (B)   Minimum lot size shall be one acre for lots which are required to be
served by a private septic system.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-14(d))
§ 157.229 MINIMUM LOT WIDTH.
   Minimum lot width at the building setback line shall be 100 feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-14(e))
§ 157.230 MINIMUM SETBACKS.
   The following setback standards shall apply in the I-1 District for
principal and accessory structures.
   (A)   Abutting the following roads.
      (1)   Arterial street (highway): 100 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   Collector street (major): 60 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Minor street (minor): 50 feet from the centerline of the right-of-
way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Private street (minor): 50 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a side setback of not less than 15
feet from the property line.        
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a side setback of not less than ten
feet from the property line.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a rear setback of not less than 20
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a rear setback of not less than ten
feet from the property line.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-14(f))
§ 157.231 LOT COVERAGE.
   Not more than 40% of the area of the lot shall be occupied by structures.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-14(g))
§ 157.232 HEIGHT.
   The following height regulations shall apply in the I-1 District:
   (A)   Principal structures not to exceed 40 feet to the mean height of the
roof; and
   (B)   Accessory structures shall not exceed 36 feet to the mean height of
the roof.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-14(h)) (Ord. LU-20-01, passed 1-29-2020)
(I-2) HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 157.245 PURPOSE.
   The I-2 Heavy Industrial District is designed to provide for heavy
industrial uses, manufacturing, assembling, processing, and the storing of
parts and products for wholesale distribution. The I-2 District should be
located in areas that are relatively remote from residential and prime retail
development to ensure adequate buffering can be established.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-15(a))
§ 157.246 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted uses in the I-2 District, in accordance
with the applicable regulations set forth in this chapter:
   (A)   Accessory structures;
   (B)   Agriculturally-related business;
   (C)   Automobile service station, provided that auto body repair or
mechanical repair is conducted as part of the use;
   (D)   Communication facilities;
   (E)   Contractor/construction office and storage;
   (F)   Crematory;
   (G)   Governmental, essential;
   (H)   Industry, heavy;
   (I)   Industry, light;
   (J)   Lawn care, chemicals;
   (K)   Lawn care, no chemicals;
   (L)   Shipping/cargo containers subject to the regulations found in §
157.046.
   (M)   Shooting range, indoor;
   (N)   Signs, in accordance with the provisions as set forth in §§
157.330 through
157.342;
   (O)   Small wind energy systems subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot;
   (P)   Storage facility;
   (Q)   Trucking firm;
   (R)   Warehouse, distribution; and
   (S)   Warehouse, mini storage.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-15(b)) (Ord. LU-19-11, passed 10-30-2019)
§ 157.247 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be established by a special use permit in the I-
2 District in accordance with procedures and standards set forth in §§
157.435 through
157.447:
   (A)   Asphalt batching plant;
   (B)   Automobile service stations, when major or minor automobile repair is
not conducted as part of the use;
   (C)   Automobile wrecking yard;
   (D)   Building wrecking yard;
   (E)   Commercial retail establishments;
   (F)   Communication facilities;
   (G)   Governmental, non-essential;
   (H)   Gravel pits;
   (I)   Junkyard;
   (J)   Landscape waste composting and mulching facility, that are required to
have an Illinois Environmental Protection Agency permit;
   (K)   Landscape waste composting and mulching facility, that are not
required to have an Illinois Environmental Protection Agency permit;
   (L)   Off-premises signs;
   (M)   Paintball facilities, indoor and outdoor; provided that outdoor
paintball facilities are located more than 500 feet from any residential
district, adjacent dwelling, school, church, existing paintball facility, and
hunting range;
   (N)   Personal service establishment;
   (O)   Planned development, non-residential;
   (P)   Recreational facilities, Class III;
   (Q)   Shooting range, outdoor; and
   (R)   Small wind energy systems subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot.
   (S)   Adult-use cannabis craft growers, in accordance with
Chapter 159, provided that: a cannabis craft grower shall not be located within
1,000 feet of property line of a pre-existing public or private preschool,
elementary school, secondary school, day care center, daycare homes, religious
institutions, a lot line containing an pre-existing residence, lot lines of all
residential zoning districts, a residential care home and specialized care
facilities.
   (T)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center, in accordance with
Chapter 159, provided that: a cannabis cultivation center shall not be located
within 1,000 feet of property line of a pre-existing public or private
preschool, elementary school, secondary school, day care center, daycare homes,
religious institutions, a lot line containing an pre-existing residence, lot
lines of all residential zoning districts, a residential care home and
specialized care facilities.
   (U)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations, in accordance with
Chapter 159, provided that: a cannabis dispensing organization shall not be
located within 1,000 feet of property line of a pre-existing public or private
preschool, elementary school, secondary school, day care center, daycare homes,
religious institutions, a lot line containing an pre-existing residence, lot
lines of all residential zoning districts, a residential care home and
specialized care facilities.
   (V)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization, in accordance with
Chapter 159, provided that: a cannabis infuser organization shall not be
located within 1,000 feet of property line of a pre-existing public or private
preschool, elementary school, secondary school, day care center, daycare homes,
religious institutions, a lot line containing an pre-existing residence, lot
lines of all residential zoning districts, a residential care home and
specialized care facilities.
   (W)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization, in accordance with
Chapter 159, provided that: a cannabis processing organization shall not be
located within 1,000 feet of property line of a pre-existing public or private
preschool, elementary school, secondary school, day care center, daycare homes,
religious institutions, a lot line containing an pre-existing residence, lot
lines of all residential zoning districts, a residential care home and
specialized care facilities.
   (X)   Agritainment/agritourism.
   (Y)   Commercial solar energy facility, subject to all regulations as found
in §§
156.01 et seq.
   (Z)   Wind energy conversion systems, subject to all regulations as found in
§§
153.01 through
153.11.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-15(c)) (Ord. LU-20-03, passed 2-26-2020; Res. LU-24-09,
passed 5-29-2024; Res. LU-24-17, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 157.248 MINIMUM LOT SIZES.
   Except as provided by special use permit, all uses and structures in the I-
2 District shall have the minimum lot size as set forth below:
   (A)   Minimum lot size shall be one-half acre for lots served by public
water and sewer; and
   (B)   Minimum lot size shall be one acre for lots which are required to be
served by a private septic system.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-15(d))
§ 157.249 MINIMUM LOT WIDTH.
   Minimum lot width at the building setback line shall be 100 feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-15(e))
§ 157.250 MINIMUM SETBACKS.
   The following setback standards shall apply in the I-2 District for
principal and accessory structures.
   (A)   Abutting the following roads.
      (1)   Arterial street (highway): 100 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   Collector street (major): 60 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Minor street (minor): 50 feet from the centerline of the right-of-
way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Private street (minor): 50 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way or 25 feet from the edge of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a side setback of not less than 15
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a side setback of not less than ten
feet from the property line.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a rear setback of not less than 20
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a rear setback of not less than ten
feet from the property line.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-15(f))
§ 157.251 LOT COVERAGE.
   Not more than 40% of the area of the lot shall be occupied by structures.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-15(g))
§ 157.252 HEIGHT.
   The following height regulations shall apply in the I-2 District:
   (A)   Principal structures not to exceed 40 feet to the mean height of the
roof; and
   (B)   Accessory structures shall not exceed 36 feet to the mean height of
the roof.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-15(h)) (Ord. LU-20-01, passed 1-29-2020)
CONSERVATION DISTRICT
§ 157.265 PURPOSE.
   The Conservation District is established for the preservation of natural
features, the natural habitats of wildlife, and agricultural lands encouraging
the continued use of agricultural production. The Conservation District is also
designed to protect the public health, safety, comfort, and general welfare by
reducing the hardships and financial burdens imposed on the county by the
periodic flooding and overflow of the streams and rivers.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-16(a))
§ 157.266 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted used in the Conservation District in
accordance with the applicable regulations set forth in this chapter:
   (A)   Agriculture;
   (B)   Camp/cabin;
   (C)   Communication facilities;
   (D)   Dwellings, existing prior to January 1, 1998, may be divided off of an
existing parcel, provided at least one acre is deeded with the residence and
the split meets exception nine of the State Plat Act, being 765 ILCS 205/0.01
et seq., as follows: The sale of a single lot less than five acres from a
larger tract when a survey is made by a state registered land surveyor;
provided, that this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent
lots from the same larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and
configuration of the larger tract on October 1, 1973, and provided also that
this exemption does not invalidate any local requirements applicable to the
subdivision of land;
   (E)   Greenhouse, non-commercial;
   (F)   Home occupations;
   (G)   Personal storage/recreational building, not to exceed 1,200 square
feet. Structures larger than 1,200 square feet shall require approval of a
special use request.
   (H)   Kennel, private;
   (I)   Shipping/cargo containers subject to the regulations found in §
157.046.
   (J)   Signs; and
   (K)   Small wind energy systems subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-16(b)) (Ord. LU-19-11, passed 10-30-2019; Res. LU-25-07,
passed 6-26-2025)
§ 157.267 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be established by a special use in the Conservation
District in accordance with procedures and standards set forth in §§
157.435 through
157.447:
   (A)   Agriculturally-related business;
   (B)   Campground;
   (C)   Clubs or lodges, private;
   (D)   Communication facilities;
   (E)   Dwellings, single-family on parcels at least one acre in size;
   (F)   Game breeding, shoot preserve;
   (G)   Gravel pits;
   (H)   Home commercial special use;
   (I)   Manufactured/mobile homes occupied by retired/disabled persons on the
same lot or tract of land on which a single-family detached dwelling is
occupied as a permanent residence by a family member;
   (J)   Manufactured/mobile home, accessory to agriculture;
   (K)   Paintball facilities; provided that outdoor paintball facilities are
located more than 500 feet from any residential district, adjacent dwelling,
school, church, existing paintball facility, and hunting range;
   (L)   Personal storage/recreational building, not to exceed 2,500 square
feet. Structures larger than 2,500 square feet shall also require approval of a
variance request.
   (M)   Recreational facilities, Class I, Class II, and Class III;
   (N)   Shooting range, outdoor;
   (O)   Small wind energy systems subject to all regulations as found in §§
153.20 through
153.28. There shall only be one wind energy system allowed on a zoning lot;
   (P)   Banquet facilities;
   (Q)   Commercial solar energy facility, subject to all regulations as found
in §§
156.01 et seq.;
   (R)   Wind energy conversion systems, subject to all regulations as found in
§§
153.01 through
153.11.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-16(c)) (Ord. LU-17-14, passed 11-15-2017; Res. LU-24-17,
passed 8-28-2024; Res. LU-25-07, passed 6-26-2025)
§ 157.268 MINIMUM LOT SIZES.
   Except as provided by special use permit, all uses and structures in the
Conservation District shall have minimum lot size of 40 acres.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-16(d))
§ 157.269 MINIMUM LOT WIDTH.
   Minimum lot width at the building setback line shall be 200 feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-16(e))
§ 157.270 FRONTAGE.
   Minimum road frontage shall be 200 feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-16(f))
§ 157.271 MINIMUM SETBACKS.
   The following setback standards shall apply in the Conservation District for
principal and accessory structures.
   (A)   Roads.
      (1)   Arterial street (highway): 150 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way.
      (2)   Collector street (major): 100 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way.
      (3)   Minor street (minor): 100 feet from the centerline of the right-of-
way.
      (4)   Private street (minor): 100 feet from the centerline of the right-
of-way.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a side setback of not less than 30
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a side setback of not less than 15
feet from the property line.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   Principal structures shall have a rear setback of not less than 50
feet from the property line.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall have a rear setback of not less than 25
feet from the property line.
   (D)   Properties located within the Cooperas Creek Subdivision in Springlake
Township shall adhere to the setback requirements as found in §
157.150. Further, no more than 30% of the area of the lot shall be occupied by
structures.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-16(g)) (Ord. LU-17-05, passed 9-27-2017; Ord. LU-18-02,
passed 4-25-2018)
§ 157.272 HEIGHT.
   The following height regulations shall apply in the Conservation District:
   (A)   Principal structures not to exceed 36 feet to the mean height of the
roof; and
   (B)   Accessory structures not to exceed 36 feet to the mean height of the
roof.
   (C)   Properties located within the Cooperas Creek Subdivision in Springlake
Township shall adhere to the height requirements as found in § 157.152.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-16(h)) (Ord. LU-17-05, passed 9-27-2017; Ord. LU-18-02,
passed 4-25-2018; Ord. LU-20-01, passed 1-29-2020)
TEMPORARY USES
§ 157.285 TEMPORARY USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Unless otherwise provided in this subchapter, no temporary use shall be
established or maintained unless a temporary use permit has been issued by the
Community Development Administrator.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-17(a))
§ 157.286 APPLICATION.
   Applications for a temporary use shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The applicant’s names and the property owner’s name (if different from
the applicant);
   (B)   The commonly know address of the property to be used, rented, or
leased for the temporary use, legal description, and property identification
number;
   (C)   A description of the proposed use; and
   (D)   Sufficient information for the following:
      (1)   Provisions for waste disposal;
      (2)   Provisions for temporary food service facilities;
      (3)   Security personnel;
      (4)   Paved or graded ingress and egress for emergency, police, and
regulatory traffic control;
      (5)   Yard requirements;
      (6)   Parking space;
      (7)   Traffic control;
      (8)   Hours of operation;
      (9)   Signs shall be in accordance with the provisions as set forth in §§
157.330 through
157.342; and
      (10)   Provisions for clearing debris; the site shall be cleared of all
debris immediately following the termination of the temporary use.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-17(b))
§ 157.287 PERMITTED TEMPORARY USES.
   The following are considered temporary uses and are subject to the following
specific regulations and time limits, in addition the regulations of any
district in which the uses are located.
   (A)   Christmas tree sales.
      (1)   Permitted in any district following approval by the Community
Development Administrator.
      (2)   A temporary permit shall be issued for a period not to exceed 60
days.
   (B)   Manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle used as temporary
use.
      (1)   Permitted in any district, a temporary use permit may be issued for
the inhabitants of a dwelling, when said dwelling has been destroyed or
rendered uninhabitable by fire or nature disaster, to occupy a manufactured/
mobile home or recreational vehicle on the premises as the destroyed or damaged
dwelling, during the reconstruction of the new dwelling.
      (2)   As soon as practicable after the emergency occupation as begun, the
property owner shall apply to the Community Development Administrator for a
temporary use permit.
      (3)   Placement of the manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle
and waivers of the provisions regarding yard and setback requirements shall be
at the discretion of the Community Development Administrator.
      (4)   Prior to issuance of a temporary permit, the property owner must
first produce an approved septic permit from the County Health Department to
the Community Development Administrator.
      (5)   Such temporary use permit shall be issued without charge and shall
expire six months following the date of issuance.
      (6)   Such temporary use may be allowed one extension not to exceed six
months, at the discretion of the Community Development Administrator.
      (7)   (a)   Upon expiration of the six-month period or any extension
thereof which may be granted, or the completion of the repair or rebuilding of
the destroyed dwelling, the manufactured/mobile home shall be removed from the
premises.
         (b)   If the manufactured/mobile home is not removed within ten days
of the date determined in this section, the county shall have the right to
remove said manufactured/mobile home from the premises, with the cost of
removal and disposition costs, if any, to become a lien upon the premises.
      (8)   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Community Development
Administrator under this division (B) may Appeal to the Zoning Board, whose
decision will be final.
   (C)   Roadside stands for the seasonal sale of farm produce.
      (1)   Permitted in A-1, A-2, and RR Districts, a temporary permit shall
be issued for one stand per farm on parcels in the agricultural district that
have a minimum area of one acre and minimum road frontage of 250 feet. Sales
areas, including the stand, shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet from the
nearest right-of-way of any street or highway.
      (2)   If the site is used for growing a minimum of 50% of the farm
produce sold, the owner of the site may import farm product not grown on the
site for seasonal sale.
      (3)   The maximum length of the temporary use permit shall be for a six-
month period.
   (D)   Carnivals and circuses.
      (1)   Permitted in any district, provided that if such use is located in
a residential district, the carnival or circus shall be accessory to a
governmental use or religious institution.
      (2)   The individual responsible for operation of such carnival or circus
shall provide the Community Development Administrator in advance of the date of
such operation with information that specifies the proposed hours of operation
and other details of the proposed use.
      (3)   A temporary permit shall be issued for a period not to exceed seven
days.
   (E)   Two dwellings on one parcel.
      (1)   A temporary use permit may be issued to allow an individual to live
in the existing dwelling while building a new dwelling on the same parcel.
      (2)   The temporary use permit shall be issued for a period of not more
than two years.
      (3)   Appropriate Health Department permits for water supply and septic
permits shall be submitted to the Community Development Administrator prior to
the issuance of the temporary use permit.
      (4)   The original dwelling shall be removed from the parcel within 30
days after completion of the new dwelling. Removal includes: demolition of the
original residence after issuance of a demolition permit; moving the original
residence to another parcel after issuance of a moving permit; or conversion of
the original residence into an accessory building, and shall not be used for
living purposes, which meets all requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Asphalt batching plant.
      (1)   A temporary use permit may be issued for a portable asphalt
batching plant, for use in road construction and repair in the area, in the A-
1, A-2, C-2, I-1, and I-2 zoning districts (pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/5-12001).
      (2)   The temporary use permit shall state the specific road that the
facility will be repairing or constructing.
      (3)   Such facility must be located not less than 1,000 feet from a
residential district or residential building.
      (4)   The permit shall be issued for a period of six months and then
renewed thereafter every six months until such road construction and repair is
completed.
      (5)   All setback requirements in the district in which it is located
shall be met for the buildings used in conjunction with the plant.
      (6)   All requirements of other county ordinances must be fulfilled
during the time the facility is in operation.
      (7)   Once the road construction and repair in the area is completed, the
facility shall be removed within 30 days.
   (G)   Festivals.
      (1)   A temporary use permit may be issued for tents or other temporary
structures and related facilities to house and serve public celebrations,
special observances, cultural events, or entertainment programs sponsored by a
local civic, religious, governmental, or recognized, duly chartered, fraternal
organizations in any district.
      (2)   Such temporary use shall not exceed seven days.
   (H)   Fireworks stands. A temporary use permit may be issued for stands for
the sale of fireworks only in the C-1 and C-2 Districts for a period not to
exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-17(c))
SCREENING REQUIREMENTS
§ 157.300 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standards of screening for
those properties within the county’s jurisdiction which may be incompatible
with adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-18(a))
§ 157.301 SCREENING.
   Screening shall be designed, planted, or constructed and maintained in
accordance with the following general guidelines.
   (A)   Permanent screening during all seasons shall be required of industrial
and commercial districts in the following instances.
      (1)   A screen shall be required for an industrial and or agricultural-
business use when it is adjoining an R-1, R-2, R-R, C-1, or C-2 District.
      (2)   A screen shall be required for a neighborhood commercial use when
it is adjoining a R-1, R-2, R-R, or A-2 District.
      (3)   A screen shall be required for a highway commercial use when it is
adjoining an R-1, R-2, R-R, or A-2 District.
   (B)   No screening shall interfere with sight requirements for safe ingress
and egress.
   (C)   No screening shall be planted or installed within an underground or
overhead utility easement or a drainage easement without the consent of the
appropriate utility.
   (D)   One of the following screening types or a combination of the following
screening types shall be used:
      (1)   A dense compact screen of plantings to attain the dimensions
specified within a two-year time span;
      (2)   A fence (less than 50% view through fence) to be maintained at the
dimensions specified;
      (3)   A ground contoured earthen berm to be maintained at the dimensions
specified;
      (4)   Vegetation and grassed earth berms should be used whenever
possible;
      (5)   Earthen berms shall have a side slope not less than four feet
horizontal distance for each one foot of vertical distance;
      (6)   Screening shall be six feet in height excluding vegetation growth;
      (7)   If a combination of vegetation and screening is to be used, the
vegetation shall be placed on the outside perimeter of the fencing;
      (8)   A plan specifying dimensions, locations, and types of screening
shall be supplied at the time a building permit is applied for; and
      (9)   Screening shall be in place prior to the closeout of the building
permit, or within the time frame specified by the Community Development
Administrator.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-18(b))
§ 157.302 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The plantings, fences, or berms shall be properly maintained in order
to fulfill the purpose for which it is established. Such maintenance shall
include all actions necessary to keep all screening in good repair and in a
neat appearance.
   (B)   In the event that any vegetation, fence, or berm is damaged, it shall
be replaced within one year or one growing season, whichever is sooner.
   (C)   In the event that any fence or berm is damaged, it shall be replaced
within six months.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-18(c))
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 157.315 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these off-street parking regulations is to alleviate or
prevent congestion of the public streets and so promote the safety and
convenience of the public by establishing minimum requirements for off-street
parking in accordance with the use of the property. The regulations and
requirements set forth herein shall apply to all off-street parking facilities
in all zoning districts unless otherwise specifically stated.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-19(a))
§ 157.316 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The off-street parking and off-street loading provisions of this chapter
shall apply as follows.
   (A)   Accessory off-street parking and off-street loading facilities shall
be provided as required by the regulations of this section for all buildings
and structures erected and all uses of land established in each district after
the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or premises
shall be increased through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area,
seating capacity, or other units or measurement in the amounts specified herein
requiring parking or loading facilities, such additional parking and loading
facilities as required herein shall be provided.
   (C)   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall hereafter
be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as
required for such new use. However, if the said building or structure was
erected prior to the effective date of this chapter, additional parking or
loading facilities are mandatory only to the extent by which the requirements
for the new use would exceed those for the existing use if the latter was in
compliance with the parking and loading provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Accessory off-street parking and loading facilities in existence on
the effective date of this chapter and located on the same lot as the building
or use served shall not hereafter be reduced below, or if already less than,
shall not be further reduced below the requirements for a similar new building
or use under the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   For any conforming or legally non-conforming building or use which is
in existence on the effective date of this chapter, which subsequently thereto
is damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion, or other cause, and which
is reconstructed, re-established, or repaired, off-street parking or loading
facilities need not be provided, except that such parking or loading facilities
equivalent to any maintained at the time of such damage or destruction shall be
restored or continued in operation. However, in no case shall it be necessary
to restore or maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of those
required by this chapter for equivalent new uses or construction.
   (F)   Control of off-site parking facilities. In cases where parking
facilities are permitted on a lot other than the lot on which the structure or
use served is located, a written agreement shall be submitted to the Community
Development Administrator indicating that portion of the lot which shall be
designated for the off-street parking.
   (G)   Handicapped parking requirements.
Total Number of Required Off-Street Parking Total Number of Spaces Required for
Spaces                                      Handicapped
Total Number of Required Off-Street Parking Total Number of Spaces Required for
Spaces                                      Handicapped
1–20                                      1
21–50                                     2
51–75                                     3
76–100                                    4
101–150                                   5
151–200                                   6
201–300                                   7
301–400                                   8
401–500                                   9
501-1,000                                   2% of total number
1,000+                                      20 + 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
   (H)   Off-street parking spaces for the handicapped shall be designed as
follows.
      (1)   All spaces for the handicapped shall have access to a curb ramp or
curb cut when necessary to allow access to the building served, shall be
located so that users will not be compelled to wheel behind parked vehicles,
and shall be located the shortest possible distance between the parking area
and the entrance to the principal building it serves.
      (2)   The total number of accessible parking spaces may be distributed
among parking lots, if greater accessibility is achieved in consideration of
such factors as anticipated usage, number, and location of entrances and level
of parking areas.
      (3)   Each parking space for the handicapped shall be at least 16 feet
wide, including an eight- foot wide access aisle, and adjacent parking spaces
shall not share a common access aisle. All access aisles shall blend to a
common level with an accessible route and shall be diagonally striped.
      (4)   Parallel parking spaces for the handicapped shall be located either
at the beginning or end of a block, or adjacent to alley entrances. Curbs
adjacent to such spaces shall be of a height which will not interfere with the
opening and closing of motor vehicle doors.
      (5)   No accessible parking spaces shall be required if only attendant or
valet parking is provided and is available at all times that the facility is
open for public use. If accessible at-grade parking is available, at least one
space for self parking of a vehicle with sensitive specialized control devices
shall be provided.
      (6)   Each parking space for the handicapped shall be equipped with a
sign which complies with 625 ILCS 5/11-301 et seq., as amended, and shall meet
the requirements of Sign R 7-8, U.S. Department of Transportation standard and
the state’s Department of Transportation. Signs shall bear the internationally
accepted wheelchair symbol and shall be vertically mounted on a post or a wall
at the front-center of the parking space, no more than five feet horizontally
from the front of the parking space, and set a minimum of four feet from
finished grade to the bottom of the sign.
      (7)   A plan shall be submitted with every application for a building
permit for any building or use that is required to provide off-street parking.
The plan shall accurately designate the required parking spaces, access aisles,
and driveways, and the relation of the off-street parking facilities to the
uses or structures such facilities are designed to serve. The proposed
landscaping to comply with the requirements of these regulations shall also be
depicted on the plan, where applicable.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-19(b))
§ 157.317 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking facilities for motor vehicles shall be provided in
accordance with the following.
   (A)   Use. Off-street parking facilities required herein as accessory to
uses subject to this chapter shall be solely for the parking of passenger
automobiles of patrons, occupants, or employees.
   (B)   Exemptions. When the application of the off-street parking regulations
specified hereinafter results in a requirement of not more than three spaces on
a single lot in the commercial districts, such parking spaces need not be
provided, unless two or more uses are located on such lot in which case only
one of the uses shall be eligible for the above.
   (C)   Computation. When determination of the number of off-street parking
spaces required by this chapter results in a requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction of one-half or less may be disregarded while a fraction in excess
of one-half shall be counted as one parking space.
   (D)   Collective provisions. Off-street parking facilities for separate uses
may be provided collectively if the total number of spaces so provided is not
less than the sum of the separate requirements for each such use and provided
that all regulations governing location of accessory parking spaces, in
relation to the use served, are adhered to. Further, no parking spaces or
portion thereof shall serve as a required space for more than one use unless
otherwise authorized by the Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with
procedures set forth herein.
   (E)   Size. Except for parallel parking spaces, a required off-street
parking space shall be at least nine feet in width and at least 20 feet in
length, exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or office or work
areas. Enclosed parking spaces shall have a vertical clearance of at least
seven feet. For parallel parking, the length of the parking space shall be
increased to 22 feet. All other requirements as to size shall be listed herein.
Handicapped parking spaces will meet the size requirements as described in this
chapter.
   (F)   Access. Each required off-street parking space shall open directly
upon an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and
efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off-street
parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access
to a street or alley in an manner which will least interfere with traffic
movement. No driveway across public property at the right-of-way line shall
exceed a width of 25 feet.
   (G)   Design and maintenance.
      (1)   Open and enclosed parking spaces. Accessory parking spaces may be
open to the sky or enclosed in an building.
      (2)   Surfacing. All open off-street parking areas containing more than
three parking spaces shall be improved with a compacted base and a dust-free
surface as approved by the County Highway Engineer.
      (3)   Screening and landscaping. All open automobile parking areas
containing more than three parking spaces, located less than 40 feet from the
nearest property line of a lot in a residence district, shall be effectively
screened on each side adjoining or fronting on such property line by a solid
fence or densely planted hedge, not less than five feet nor more than eight
feet in height.
      (4)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas
shall be directed away from residential properties. The Zoning Board of Appeals
may, on petition of neighboring residential property owners or tenants, and
after hearing, require that such lighting be reduced in intensity, height,
changed in duration, or turned off after certain hours. In making this decision
on any such petition, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall take into consideration
the reasonable requirements of the user of the parking area involved.
      (5)   Repair and service. No regular motor vehicle repair work or service
of any kind shall be permitted in conjunction with any parking facilities.
   (H)   Location. All parking spaces required to serve buildings or uses
erected or established after the effective date of this chapter shall be
located on the same or adjoining lot as the building or use served. Buildings
or uses existing on the effective date of this chapter which are subsequently
altered or enlarged so as to require the provision of parking spaces under this
chapter, or new uses established in any commercial or industrial district, may
be served by parking facilities located on land other than the lot on which the
building or use served is located, provided such facilities are within 400 feet
walking distance of a main entrance to the use served.
   (I)   Employee parking. Parking spaces required on an employee basis shall
be based on the maximum number of employees on duty or residing, or both, on
the premises at any one time.
   (J)   Required spaces. The minimum number of off-street parking spaces
accessory to designated uses shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   Dwelling and lodging uses.
         (a)   Boarding or rooming houses: two parking spaces plus an
additional one parking space for each three lodging units.
         (b)   Hotels and motels: one parking space per room, plus two parking
spaces per three employees.
         (c)   Multiple-family dwellings: one and one-half parking spaces for
each dwelling unit.
         (d)   Single-family dwellings: two parking spaces for each dwelling.
         (e)   Two-family dwellings: two parking spaces for each unit.
      (2)   Colleges, junior colleges, university, institutions, auditoriums,
schools, or other places of assembly uses.
         (a)   Colleges, junior colleges, and universities. One parking space
for each six students, based upon the maximum number of students that can be
accommodated in accordance with design capacity, and one space for each
employee.
         (b)   Nursing homes, rest homes, institutions for the care of the aged
and for children, and sanitariums. One parking space for each two beds.
         (c)   Gymnasiums, stadiums, and grandstands. One parking space for
each six seats or for each 108 inches of seating space.
         (d)   Hospitals. One parking space per bed for 100 bed hospitals; one
and one-tenth parking spaces per bed for 101 to 300 beds, one and one-fifth
parking spaces per bed for 301 to 500 beds; and one and three-tenths parking
spaces per bed for over 500 beds.
         (e)   Libraries and museums. One parking space for each 800 square
feet of floor area.
         (f)   Medical and dental clinics. One parking space for each 250
square feet of floor area.
         (g)   Meeting halls, convention halls, and exhibition halls. The
number of parking spaces equal to 30% of the maximum number of people that can
be accommodated in accordance with such design capacity.
         (h)   Private clubs and lodges. One parking space for each lodging
room and one parking space for each six seats in accordance with design seating
capacity of the main meeting room.
         (i)   Schools. Schools shall have parking spaces as follows.
            1.   Elementary and junior high schools shall have one parking
space for each teacher and other employee.
            2.   Senior high schools shall have one parking space for each
teacher and other employee, plus one parking space per five students.
            3.   Nursery schools shall have one parking space for each teacher
and other employee, plus one off-street loading space per eight pupils.
            4.   If a school has an auditorium or assembly hall which may be
used by persons other than students of the school, the parking requirements set
forth under division (J)(2)(g) above shall be used to fulfill the parking
requirements of the school.
            5.   Commercial and trade schools shall have two parking spaces per
five students, plus two parking spaces per three employees.
   (K)   Recreational uses, commercial or non-commercial.
      (1)   Bowling alleys. Seven parking spaces for each lane plus such
additional spaces as may be required herein for affiliated uses such as
restaurants and the like.
      (2)   Golf courses. Six parking spaces per green and one parking space
per employee.
      (3)   Golf driving range. One parking space per tee and one parking space
per employee.
      (4)   Gymnasiums, health salons, swimming pools, skating rinks, and dance
halls, commercial. One parking space for each three persons, based upon the
maximum number of persons that can be accommodated at the same time in
accordance with such design capacity, and one parking space for each two
employees.
   (L)   Business, commercial, and manufacturing uses.
      (1)   All business and commercial establishments, except those specified
hereafter. One parking space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   Automobile carwash. One parking space for each two employees, plus
one space for the owner or manager, and in addition, reservoir parking spaces
to accommodate automobiles awaiting entrance to the automobile carwash equal in
number to five times the maximum capacity of the automobile laundry. MAXIMUM
CAPACITY, in this instance, shall mean the greatest number of automobiles which
can be laundered at the same time.
      (3)   Automobile service stations. One parking space for each employee,
plus two for each service stall.
      (4)   Banks. One parking space for each 400 square feet of floor area.
      (5)   Business, professional or service office buildings. One parking
space for each 200 square feet of floor area used or intended to be used for
service to the public as customers, patrons, or clients, whichever requires the
greater number parking spaces, with a minimum of five spaces.
      (6)   Cannabis businesses.
         (a)   Cannabis dispensing organizations. One parking space per 200
square feet.
         (b)   Other cannabis business establishments. One parking space per
5,000 square feet for grow and process floor area, and one parking space per
300 square feet for office space.
      (7)   Cartage, express, parcel delivery, and freight terminal
establishments. One parking space for each person engaged or employed on the
premises and one parking space for each vehicle maintained on the premises.
      (8)   Drive-in business and commercial establishments. Extra (reservoir)
parking spaces equal in number to 15% of the number of vehicle spaces used for
serving customers.
      (9)   Establishments handling the sale and consumption on the premises of
food and refreshment. One parking space for each three persons based upon the
maximum number of persons that can be accommodated at the same time in
accordance with such design capacity.
      (10)   Furniture and appliance stores, motor vehicle sales, wholesale
stores, stores for repair of household equipment or furniture. One parking
space for each 400 square feet of floor area.
      (11)   Production, processing, assembly, disassembly, cleaning,
servicing, testing, or repairing of materials, goods, or products. One parking
space for each two employees, as related to the working period when the maximum
number of persons are employed on the premises.
      (12)   Theaters. One parking space for each six seats up to 400 seats,
plus one parking space for each four seats over 400.
      (13)   Theaters (automobile drive-in). Extra (reservoir) parking spaces
equal in number to 10% of the vehicle capacity of such theaters.
      (14)   Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors. Eight parking
spaces for each chapel or parlor, plus one parking space for each funeral
vehicle maintained on the premises.
      (15)   Warehouse, storage, wholesale, and mail order establishments. One
parking space for each employee employed on the premises and one parking space
for each vehicle maintained on the premises.
   (M)   Miscellaneous uses.
      (1)   Planned developments. The total number of parking spaces needed to
meet the requirements herein for each use located in the development.
      (2)   Public utility and public service uses. One parking space for each
two employees.
   (N)   Other uses. Parking spaces for other permitted or special uses not
listed above shall be provided in accordance with requirements recommended by
the Community Development Administrator and approved by the Zoning Board of
Appeals, Land Use Committee, or County Board.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-19(c)) (Ord. LU-20-03, passed 2-26-2020)
§ 157.318 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Off-street loading spaces accessory to designated uses shall be provided as
follows.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   All required loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the
use served. All motor vehicle loading spaces which abut a residential district
or an intervening alley separating a residential district from a commercial or
industrial district shall be completely screened therefrom by building walls,
or a uniformly painted solid fence, wall, or door, or any combination thereof,
not less than eight feet nor more than ten feet in height.
      (2)   No permitted or required loading space shall be located within 40
feet of the nearest point of intersection of any two streets.
      (3)   No loading space shall be located in a required front or side yard
adjoining a street, and any loading space located in a required rear yard shall
be open to the sky.
   (B)   Area. Unless otherwise specified, a required off-street loading space
shall be at least 12 feet in width by at least 35 feet in length, exclusive of
aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical clearance of at least 14
feet.
   (C)   Access. Each required off-street loading space shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movement.
   (D)   Surfacing. All open off-street loading spaces shall be improved with a
compacted base and a permanent wearing surface as approved by the County
Engineer.
   (E)   Repair and service. No motor vehicle regular work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities.
   (F)   Utilization. Space allocated to any off-street loading space shall
not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off-
street parking facilities or portions thereof.
   (G)   Off-street loading space requirements.
      (1)   The minimum number of off-street loading spaces accessory to non-
residential uses in agriculture, residence, and commercial districts shall be
one loading space for buildings containing 10,000 square feet of gross floor
area, plus one additional loading space for each additional 100,000 square feet
of gross floor area or major fraction thereof.
      (2)   (a)   The minimum number of off-street loading spaces accessory to
uses in industrial districts shall be in accordance with the following
schedule.
 
Floor Area of     Required Number Required Size          Minimum Clearance
Establishments
5,000 to 10,000   1               10 feet x 35 feet      12 feet
10,000 to 25,000  2               10 feet x 35 feet each 12 feet
25,000 to 40,000  2               12 feet x 50 feet each 14 feet
40,000 to 100,000 3               12 feet x 50 feet each 14 feet
 
         (b)   For each additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, or
major fraction thereof, over 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, one
additional loading space, such additional loading space shall be at least 12
feet in width by 50 feet in length.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-19(d))
SIGNS
§ 157.330 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide regulation and control of the
location, size, content, and placement of signs throughout the county in order
to promote signs which are safe and compatible with their surroundings. This
subchapter also recognizes the need to minimize the possible adverse effect of
signs on nearby public and private property.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-20(a))
§ 157.331 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. The area of the corner lot closest to the intersection which
is kept free of visual impairment to allow full view of both pedestrian and
vehicular traffic.
   SIGN, AREA. The entire area of all sign faces, cumulatively, including sign
faces on which no copy is currently displayed.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered at a location other than
the premises on which the sign is located.
   SIGN, CANOPY/AWNING. Any sign which is affixed to, painted on, or suspended
from a canopy or awning.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. A sign on which copy is changed manually in the field
or a sign which is electronically or electrically controlled where different
copy changes are shown on the same lamp bank.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. A sign designed and erected solely for the purpose of
directing or guiding automotive or pedestrian traffic or parking and containing
no advertising matter.
   SIGN, FACE.
      (1)   That part of the sign which is or can be used to identify, to
advertise, to communicate information, or for visual representation which
attracts the attention of the public for any purpose.
      (2)   This shall include any background material, panel, trim, color, and
direct or self- illumination that differentiates the sign from the building,
structure, backdrop surface, or object upon or against which it is placed. This
shall not include any portion of the support structure for the sign; provided,
that no message, symbol, or any of the aforementioned sign face criteria is
placed on or designed as part of the support structure. A two-sided sign shall
be considered to have two SIGN FACES.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any sign which, by method or manner of illumination, flashes
on or off, or blinks with varying light intensity, shows motion, or creates the
illusion of motion, or revolves in a manner to create the illusion of being on
or off.
   SIGN, FREE STANDING. A sign supported by one or more upright poles, columns,
or braces placed in or on the ground and not attached to any building or
structure.
   SIGN, HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the natural grade at the
base of the sign support to the highest point of the sign.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A sign which states the name of the business or
establishment, including either the national company or local proprietor, and/
or the address of a building.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign lighted by or exposed to artificial lighting,
either by lights on or in the sign or directed towards the sign.
   SIGN, MUNICIPAL/COMMUNITY ENTRANCE. A sign erected by a government or public
body and located near the edge of a community, township, or political
subdivision and for the primary purpose of identifying and describing such
municipality or community.
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE. A sign which displays only the name and address of the
occupant and is unlighted.
   SIGN, NON-CONFORMING. A sign lawfully erected and maintained prior to the
effective date of the adoption of this chapter which does not conform to the
provisions of this chapter.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered at a location other than
the premises on which the sign is located.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. Any sign that identifies a business, person, activity,
goods, products, services, or facilities that is located on the same premises
as the sign itself.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign that is not permanently attached to the ground, a
structure, or a building and which is designed to be transported to another
location.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign, other than a wall sign, that is attached to and
projects from the wall of a building or structure.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign which contains information which is not permanent
in character. Such signs include, but are not limited to, political campaign
signs, garage sale signs, and real estate signs.
   SIGN, WALL. Any sign attached or erected against a wall or building or
structure parallel to the face of a building and supported throughout its
length by such building.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-20(b))
§ 157.332 APPLICATION AND FEES.
   An application for a sign shall comply with §§
157.555 through
157.570 and §§
157.600 through
157.603.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-20(c))
§ 157.333 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   The following signs are allowed in all districts, subject to any
requirements specified herein and shall not be required to obtain a sign
permit.
   (A)   Property. For sale, for rent, and real estate signs erected to
announce the sale or rent of property, provided such signs are not more than 32
square feet in area. These signs shall be removed 30 days following the sale or
lease of the property in question. Real estate signs shall be allowed until the
sale of the final lot in the subdivision. Such signs shall be located five feet
from the right-of-way property line and not to exceed 15 feet in height.
   (B)   Street and traffic control signs. Signs erected by a jurisdiction for
street direction and traffic control such as, but not limited to, no parking,
stop, speed limit, railroad crossing, and other such signs required for the
safe and efficient flow of traffic throughout the county.
   (C)   Agricultural produce signs. Signs erected in zoning districts where
agricultural uses are permitted, which advertise the sale of farm products,
provided that such signs shall not be more than 12 square feet in area; any
illumination shall be non-flashing, uncolored, and confined to the face of the
sign. Such sign shall not exceed 15 feet in height.
   (D)   Crop identification signs. Signs erected in zoning districts where
agricultural uses are permitted, which do not exceed six square feet per sign,
shall be permitted without limit to number, provided such signs are placed at
least one foot from any public right-of-way.
   (E)   Directional and information signs. Signs erected for a public or
essentially public purpose not to exceed eight square feet in area and shall
not exceed 15 feet in height unless otherwise specifically stated, and shall
not contain any advertising matter whatsoever. Such signs may be illuminated,
shall be non-flashing, and illumination shall be confined to the face of the
sign. Such signs may be of a beaded reflector type. Such signs shall be used
for the following purposes only:
      (1)   Guiding signs. Signs directing and guiding automobile or pedestrian
traffic on private property, including signs which identify restrooms, public
telephones, walkways, and similar features and facilities;
      (2)   Identification signs. Signs which identify the name or location of
a town or village, medical facilities, community center, school, college, or
place of worship;
      (3)   Organizations signs. Signs which identify the name or place of a
meeting of an official or civic body such as Chambers of Commerce or Rotary or
Kiwanis Club;
      (4)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs indicating a public event such as
a state or county fair, public or general election, and the like, provided that
such sign shall not interfere with the full view of traffic in all directions.
Such signs shall be removed within seven days after the event;
      (5)   Parking signs. Entrance and exit signs designating the entrances
and exits to and from parking areas, provided that such signs shall not exceed
30 inches in height, nor four square feet in area. Such signs shall be placed
outside the public right-of-way and there shall be no more than two signs for
each entrance and exit;
      (6)   Political signs. Temporary political signs shall be located at
least one foot from a public right-of-way, and shall be removed within seven
days following an election;
      (7)   Memorial signs. Signage including names of buildings, date of
erection, and the like;
      (8)   Temporary subdivision informational signs.
         (a)   Signs not to exceed 32 square feet in area and 15 feet in
height, shall be allowed to announce the opening and sale of lots within a new
subdivision.
         (b)   Such signs shall be located on private property within the new
subdivision and not in any right-of-way or road easement.
         (c)   Such signs shall be removed within 30 days of the sale of the
last lot within the subdivision.
         (d)   One sign shall be allowed at each entrance to the subdivision,
however, no more than two such signs shall be allowed per subdivision;
      (9)   Warning signs. No trespassing signs and warning signs (such as
“beware of dog”), such sign shall not be larger than four square feet; and
      (10)   Municipal/community entrance signs.
         (a)   Such signs shall not be more than 32 square feet in sign area.
Said signs shall not contain any advertising matter whatsoever, except for
emblems or logos of supporting or local civic groups.
         (b)   Such signs shall not be illuminated, but may contain reflective
display.
         (c)   Such signs shall be located on private property or within public
right-of-way upon approval of the appropriate road official and/or state’s
Department of Transportation.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-20(d))
§ 157.334 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise in this subchapter, the following
signs shall be prohibited in all districts:
   (A)   Portable signs, except as provided on a temporary basis in §§
157.335 and
157.336(B);
   (B)   Signs which project onto the right-of-way;
   (C)   Signs which interfere with traffic signals;
   (D)   Any sign which is installed, erected, or maintained in violation of
any of the provisions of this subchapter;
   (E)   Any sign erected, constructed, maintained, tacked, pasted, typed,
painted, or otherwise affixed to poles, posts, fences, trees, rocks, or other
structures or natural features, which displays advertising matter, and is
located wholly or partially within the right-of-way of any public road or
highway. This shall not apply to official highway markers or other authorized
traffic-control devices;
   (F)   Abandoned signs that advertise or identify an activity, business
product, or service that is no longer conducted or available on the premises
where such sign is located. The property owner shall remove said sign within 60
days of notification by the Community Development Administrator; and/or
   (G)   Off-premises signs including, but not limited to, billboards in all
districts except as may be permitted by a special use.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-20(e))
§ 157.335 SIGNS PERMITTED IN THE AGRICULTURE AND RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In addition to those signs identified in §
157.333, only the following signs shall be allowed in the agriculture and
residential districts, with a permit, in accordance to the requirements of the
section.
   (A)   Multi-family identification signs.
      (1)   In any multi-family dwelling in which a rental office is permitted,
one identification sign shall be allowed at each vehicular entrance from a
public right-of-way and at each major public entrance to the dwelling for all
offices in the dwelling.
      (2)   The identification sign shall not exceed 20 square feet.
      (3)   Identification signs shall be located at least five feet from any
property line, and the sign shall not be located in the sight triangle or
otherwise impair the visibility of the vehicle from a road or driveway.
      (4)   The identification sign shall indicate only the name, address,
telephone number, and rental information.
   (B)   Subdivision identification signs.
      (1)   In any subdivision, one sign shall be permitted for each separate
street frontage occupied by the subdivision and/or for each means of entrance
to or exit from the subdivision.
      (2)   Signs shall not exceed 32 square feet.
      (3)   Identification signs shall be located at the least five feet from
any property line, and the sign shall not be located in the sight triangle or
otherwise impair the visibility of a vehicle from a road or driveway.
   (C)   Home occupation sign. One sign for a home occupation shall be
permitted. Such sign shall not exceed two square feet and a height of six feet.
   (D)   Portable signs. Portable signs and sandwich boards are permitted for
grand openings, sales, and other similar special events on a temporary basis,
for no more than 30 days at a time, and no more than two times per year.
   (E)   On-premises signs. On-premises signs shall not exceed 32 square feet
per sign face.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-20(f))
§ 157.336 ON-PREMISES SIGNS PERMITTED IN THE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In addition to those signs identified in §§
157.333, free standing and identification signs and wall signs shall be allowed
in the commercial and industrial districts with a permit, subject to the
requirements of this section and to the following size requirements.
      (1)   No sign face shall exceed one square foot for each lineal foot of
street frontage, up to a maximum of 70 square feet of total sign face, and a
height of 25 feet, except as provided in division (A)(3) below.
      (2)   Free standing identification signs on an individual lot shall be
separated by a minimum of 150 feet as measured along the road frontage.
      (3)   (a)   If a development fronts more than one street, signs may be
placed on each road frontage, so long as they meet the 150-foot spacing
requirements. However, the sign face area that is oriented toward each street
may not exceed the proportion of the total lot frontage of that street.
         (b)   One corner sign may be substituted for the signage allowed on
the two connecting road frontages, provided that the sign face of the corner
sign does not exceed 100 square feet.
      (4)   For commercial retail establishments or non-residential planned
unit developments that are comprised of more than one store and that exceeds
50,000 square feet, an additional identification sign for the entire
establishment or planned unit development that does not exceed 100 square feet
shall be permitted.
      (5)   Wall signs may not cover more than 20% of the facade of the
building,
   (B)   Portable signs and sandwich boards are permitted for grand openings,
sales, and other similar special events on a temporary basis, for no more than
30 days at a time, and no more than two times per year.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-20(g))
§ 157.337 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No sign shall be erected so as to prevent free ingress and egress from
any door or window.
   (B)   No sign shall be attached to a public utility pole, fence, gutter
drain, or fire escape, other than warning signs issued by government officials
or public utilities, “no trespassing signs”, notification signs for emergency
personal, or other such signs, so long as these signs are not larger than four
square feet.
   (C)   No sign shall be erected so as to impair access to a roof or prevent
free ingress or access from any door, window, fire escape, driveway, or utility
line.
   (D)   If a sign which is located such that a major portion of the sign face
will directly face structures in any residential district, then the
illumination of such signage shall be directed at the sign face, shaded, and so
limited that there will not be any glare to the occupants of property in the
residential district. In no event shall a sign have flashing, rotating, or
moving intermittent lights.
   (E)   No sign shall be permitted within a sight triangle, except for safety-
related signs.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-20(h)) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.338 SETBACKS.
   (A)   The minimum setback for any sign from the right-of-way property line
shall be ten feet.
   (B)   The minimum setback from any rear or interior side property line shall
be five feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-20(i))
§ 157.339 HEIGHT.
   The maximum height of any sign shall be 15 feet unless otherwise
specifically provided.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-20(j))
§ 157.340 ILLUMINATION STANDARDS.
   Internally or externally illuminated signs shall meet the following
requirements.
   (A)   Signs shall be illuminated only by steady, stationary, shielded, or
shaded light sources directed solely at the sign, or internal to it so the
light intensity or brightness does not create either a nuisance to adjacent
property or a traffic hazard for motorist or pedestrians. No sign shall be
illuminated at a light level that exceeds 2,500 Lambert.
   (B)   Except where a combination of individual exposed bulbs displays
information, such as time, temperature, or date illuminated signs, no exposed
reflective-type bulb and no strobe light or unshielded incandescent lamp shall
be used on the exterior surface of any sign.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-20(k))
§ 157.341 OFF-PREMISES SIGNS.
   Off-premises signs such as, but not limited to, billboards, may be permitted
as special uses in the C-2 Zoning District along state, U.S. designated
highways, and interstate highways, and in the I-1 and I-2 Zoning Districts in
accordance with the procedures and standards as set forth in §§
157.435 through
157.447, provided the following requirements are also met:
   (A)   Signs shall be constructed of steel with mono-pole and shall not be
stacked;
   (B)   Signs shall not exceed 300 square feet per sign face;
   (C)   No sign shall exceed 30 feet in height;
   (D)   Signs shall be separated by one-quarter mile along the same road
frontage; and
   (E)   Wherever applicable, signs shall comply with the standards of the
state’s Outdoor Advertising Control Act of 1971, as amended (225 ILCS 440/1 et
seq.).
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-20(l))
§ 157.342 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   A sign lawfully established before the effective date of this chapter but
not conforming with the regulations of this section may remain. Any non-
conforming sign shall comply with the regulations in §§
157.635 through
157.643.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-20(m))
COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
§ 157.355 PURPOSE.
   The requirements of this subchapter are established for the purpose of
accommodating the communication needs of county residents and businesses while
protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the community. The
requirements of this subchapter shall apply to communications facilities when
they are allowed as a permitted use or by special use.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-21(a))
§ 157.356 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/5-12001 et seq., the county has the authority to
regulate and restrict the location and use of structures.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-21(b))
§ 157.357 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions, when used in this subchapter, shall have the
following meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. When other
definitions are in question, the definition as reflected in 55 ILCS 5/5-12001.1
shall apply.
   ANTENNA. An antenna device by which radio signals are transmitted, received,
or both.
   EQUIPMENT HOUSING. A combination of one or more equipment buildings or
enclosures housing equipment that operates in conjunction with the antenna of a
facility, and the equipment itself.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration of the United States Department of
Transportation.
   FACILITY. That portion of the signal distribution system used or operated by
a telecommunications carrier under a license from the FCC consisting of a
combination of improvements and equipment including: one or more antennas; a
supporting structure and the hardware by which antennas are attached; equipment
housing; and ancillary equipment such as signal transmission cables and
miscellaneous hardware.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   HEIGHT OF A FACILITY. The total height of the facility’s supporting
structure and any antennas that will extend above the top of the supporting
structure; however, if the supporting structure’s foundation extends more than
three feet above the uppermost ground level along the perimeter of the
foundation, then each full foot in excess of three feet shall be counted as an
additional foot of facility height. The HEIGHT OF A FACILITY’S supporting
structure is to be measured from the highest point of the supporting
structure’s foundation.
   HORIZONTAL SEPARATION DISTANCE. The distance measured from the center of the
base of the facility’s supporting structure to the point where the ground meets
a vertical wall of a residential dwelling.
   LOT LINE SETBACK DISTANCE. The distance measured from the center of the base
of the facility’s supporting structure to the nearest point on the common lot
line between the facility lot and the nearest residentially zoned lot. If there
is no common lot line, the measurement shall be made to the nearest point on
the lot line of the nearest residentially zoned lot without deducting the width
of any intervening right-of-way.
   QUALIFYING STRUCTURE. A supporting structure that is an existing structure,
if the height of the facility, including the structure, is not more than 15
feet higher than the structure just before the facility is installed, or a
substantially similar, substantially same location replacement of an existing
structure, if the height of the facility, including the replacement structure
is not more than 15 feet higher than the height of the existing structure just
before the facility is installed.
   SUPPORTING STRUCTURE. A structure, whether an antenna tower or another type
of structure, that supports one or more antennas as part of a facility.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. A telecommunications carrier as defined in the
Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/1-101 set seq. as of January 1, 1997.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-21(c))
§ 157.358 COMMUNICATION FACILITIES PERMITTED.
   A facility shall be permitted by building permit if its supporting structure
is a qualifying structure or if the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The height of the facility is not in excess of 200 feet and is
proposed to be located within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of
any municipality with a population of 25,000 or more residents, or the height
of the facility is not in excess of 350 feet and proposed to be located more
than one and one-half miles from the corporate limits of any municipality with
a population of 25,000 or more residents; and
   (B)   The horizontal separation distance to the nearest residential dwelling
is not less than the height of the supporting structure; except that if the
supporting structure exceeds 99 feet in height, the horizontal separation
distance to the nearest principal residential building shall be at least 100
feet or 80% of the height of the supporting structure, whichever is greater.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-21(d))
§ 157.359 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   When a communications tower is allowed as a permitted use, a site plan
shall be submitted to the Community Development Administrator demonstrating
compliance with the following restrictions.
      (1)   Setbacks. No portion of a facility’s supporting structure or
equipment housing shall be less than 15 feet from the front lot line of the
facility lot or less than ten feet from any other lot line. If the tower is
placed on a leased portion of a larger lot, owned by someone other than the
owner of the tower, setbacks shall be measured from the boundaries of such
leased portion of the lot.
      (2)   Lighting. Except with respect to lighting required by the FCC or
FAA, all lighting shall be shielded so that no glare extends substantially
beyond the boundaries of a facility.
      (3)   Septic and easements. All recorded easements and any existing
septic fields shall be indicated on the site plan.
      (4)   Fencing. A fence of at least eight feet in height shall be required
around the perimeter of the facility.
      (5)   Exterior materials and color. If a facility is to be located
adjacent to a residentially zoned lot, the building should be designed with
exterior material and colors that are reasonably compatible with the
residential character of the area.
   (B)   When compliance with the above has been demonstrated, the permit shall
be issued by the Community Development Administrator.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-21(e))
§ 157.360 COMMUNICATION FACILITIES BY SPECIAL USE.
   A special use shall be required for a communications facility under the
following conditions:
   (A)   The supporting structure is not a qualified structure;
   (B)   The height of the facility is to be in excess of 200 feet and proposed
to be located within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of any
municipality with a population of 25,000 or more residents;
   (C)   The height of the facility is to be in excess of 350 feet; or
   (D)   The horizontal separation distance to the nearest residential dwelling
is less than the height of the supporting structure or less than 100 feet.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-21(f))
§ 157.361 APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE.
   When a special use is required for a communications facility, a site plan
shall be submitted to the Community Development Administrator demonstrating
compliance with the restrictions listed in §
157.359. An application shall also be submitted to the Community Development
Administrator which meets the requirements of the application procedures found
in §§
157.435 through
157.447.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-21(g))
§ 157.362 EVALUATION OF SPECIAL USE.
   Following the procedures as established in §§
157.435 through
157.447, the Zoning Board of Appeals, in evaluating a special use for a
communications facility, shall consider the following matters:
   (A)   The zoning and size of the proposed facility using the following
evaluation criterion:
      (1)   A non-residentially zoned lot is the most desirable location;
      (2)   A residentially zoned lot that is not used for residential purposes
is the second most desirable location;
      (3)   A residentially zoned lot that is two acres or more in size and is
used for residential purposes is the third most desirable location; and
      (4)   A residentially zoned lot that is less than two acres in size and
is used for residential purposes is the least desirable location.
   (B)   Whether a substantial adverse effect on public safety will result from
some aspect of the facility’s design or proposed construction, but only if that
aspect of design or construction is modifiable by the applicant;
   (C)   The benefit to be derived by the users of the services to be provided
or enhanced by the facility and whether public safety and emergency response
capabilities would benefit by the establishment of the facility;
   (D)   The existing uses on adjacent and nearby properties; and
   (E)   Whether the design of the proposed facility reflects compliance with §
157.359.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-21(h))
§ 157.363 ENFORCEMENT.
   The erection or operation of any communications facility in violation of
this subchapter shall subject the owner and/or the operator of the facility to
civil penalty. The civil remedies available to the court shall include the
removal of the facility. If such removal is ordered, it shall be completed by
the County Sheriff’s Office and all expenses shall be paid by the owner and/or
operator of the facility.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-21(i))
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 157.375 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The following are specific regulations for manufactured/mobile home
parks by special use in the A-2 and the R-2 Zoning Districts. In addition,
manufactured/mobile home parks shall comply with the regulations established by
the state’s Department of Public Health and the County Health Department.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the word PARK shall mean
manufactured/mobile home park. Additionally, where applicable, MMH shall also
mean manufactured/mobile home.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-22(a))
§ 157.376 APPLICATION.
   The application for a special use for a proposed park shall contain the
following:
   (A)   Name and address of applicant and owner;
   (B)   Location and legal description of the proposed park; and
   (C)   Plans and specifications for the proposed park development including,
but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   A map indicating the area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      (2)   The number, location, and size of all MMH sites;
      (3)   The location and width of all public and private streets, roadways,
and walks;
      (4)   The location all water, storm sewer and sanitary sewer lines, water
supply, and refuse and sewage disposal facilities;
      (5)   All buildings existing or to be constructed within the park; and
      (6)   The location of internal lighting and electrical systems.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-22(b))
§ 157.377 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   No park shall be located in an area where the conditions of soil,
groundwater level, drainage, or topography may cause a hazard to the property,
health, or safety of the occupants.
      (2)   No park shall be located so that it is exposed to objectionable
smoke, dust, noise, odors, vibrations, or other adverse influence.
      (3)   Ingress and egress to a park shall be provided in such a manner to
facilitate access by emergency vehicles, and should be designed to provide
efficient and safe traffic circulation in the vicinity. All parks shall have at
least 200 feet frontage on a public road.
      (4)   No part of any park shall be used for non-residential purposes,
except accessory uses that are required to directly serve the park residents
and for management and maintenance of the park. Sales of MMHs are prohibited,
except by private individuals that rent or lease a site in the park or the
owner of the park may sell a MMH that has been obtained from a tenant in the
park.
      (5)   Home occupations shall be permitted in accordance with §
157.051. No park shall be located within one-half mile of a livestock feeding
operation.
   (B)   Size and density of a manufactured/mobile home park. No park shall
contain an area of less than ten acres nor less than 20 MMH sites; provided,
however, that state licensed parks in existence on the effective date of this
chapter having a total area or number of MMH sites less than herein prescribed
may continue to operate. Existing parks may be altered to bring such parks into
conformity with this chapter. However, no additions or alterations shall be
made to any existing park unless such additions or alterations are in
conformity with these regulations and unless the total area of the park, with
such additions or alterations, consists of at least five acres or 20 MMH sites,
and provided further, that such additions or alterations to any park shall
contain not more than eight MMH sites for each gross acre of land.
   (C)   Required setbacks and screening for a parks exterior boundary.
      (1)   All MMHP stands, accessory buildings, plus park accessory buildings
shall maintain the following setbacks from park boundaries:
         (a)   All public roads: 50 feet from right-of-way; and
         (b)   Side and rear yard: 30 feet.
      (2)   All parks shall be provided with visual screening such as fences or
screen planting along all boundary lines, except abutting road. Such fences or
screen planting shall be a minimum of six feet in height at time of planting
and of a density to filter from view the manufactured/mobile homes, accessory
structure, and other uses in the park.
   (D)   Required recreation space.
      (1)   No less than 5% of the gross site area of the park shall be devoted
to recreational facilities. Such facilities shall be centrally located on the
site and readily accessible to all occupants.
      (2)   Recreation areas may include park space, play lots, swimming pools,
and community buildings (exclusive of laundry and administrative offices).
Recreation areas may be decentralized, provided that each single parcel of
outdoor space contains more than 5,000 square feet or has a minimum average
width of more than 80 feet.
   (E)   MMH site requirements.
      (1)   The limits of each MMH site shall be designated in accordance with
the approved plan required by this section.
      (2)   All MMH shall maintain the following minimum setbacks from the
boundaries of its MMH site:
         (a)   The minimum distance between the MMH and site boundary adjacent
to private streets or roads shall be 15 feet;
         (b)   The minimum distance between the entrance door of the MMH and
the MMH site boundary shall be 20 feet; and
         (c)   All other setbacks shall be a minimum of ten feet.
      (3)   In no case, however, shall a MMH site consist of an area of less
than 5,000 square feet and it shall be a minimum of 40 feet wide.
      (4)   A MMH stand or pad shall be provided on each MMH site of sufficient
size to accommodate the MMH to be located thereon. MMH stands shall be
reinforced concrete, slabs, or runways, constructed so as not to shift or
settle unevenly under the weight of a MMH or other forces due to frost,
vibration, wind, or water. All MMHs that are mobile must meet the state’s
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq. #81-587. All MMHs placed
in a park must have the BOCA or HUD seal of approval.
      (5)   Each MMH site shall be provided with an outdoor living space to
supplement the interior living space of the MMH. This outdoor living space must
be paved monolithically or constructed of masonry or concrete moveable units
placed sufficiently close together to create a single usable surface. The area
of outdoor living space shall be a minimum of 5% of the MMH site, with a
minimum dimension of six feet.
      (6)   Storage buildings on individual sites may be entirely enclosed if
utilized for storage only. Such a structure shall not exceed 144 square feet
and be over 15 feet high from the highest point to ground level. Storage
buildings must be located in back of the main entrance of the MMH and five feet
from site boundaries.
      (7)   Cabanas, decks, or porches (screened or open) are permitted,
providing they project no further than the end of the manufactured/mobile home
and be ten feet from other site boundaries. Year- round porches or sun rooms
are prohibited.
      (8)   Garages up to 600 square feet and not over 15 feet high may be
placed on park sites containing over 6,000 square feet and 50 feet wide. The
garage must be placed in back of the closest point of the MMH to a street and
five feet from other site boundaries.
      (9)   The space between the MMH stand and the floor of the MMH shall be
enclosed with non- combustible skirting and all wheels removed.
      (10)   A minimum of two paved with concrete or asphalt off-street parking
spaces shall be provided for each site. One of these parking spaces may be
provided off the site, provided such parking space is not located more than 200
feet from the MMH site served. Each space shall be a minimum of 180 square feet
and not less than ten feet wide.
   (F)   Street requirements.
      (1)   All parks shall be provided with adequate safe and convenient
vehicular access from abutting public streets.
      (2)   Public street dedications within or abutting parks shall be made in
accordance with the subdivision regulations. No MMH site shall have direct
access onto a dedicated public street.
      (3)   Entrance drive into parks shall have direct access to a public
street and shall be designed to have free traffic flow onto such public
streets. No parking or MMH lot access driveway or accessory building shall be
permitted off an entrance drive for a distance of 50 feet from a public right-
of-way.
      (4)   The internal private street system serving MMH sites shall provide
convenient circulation by means of minor private streets and properly located
collector private streets. Cul-de-sac private streets shall be limited to a
length of 500 feet.
      (5)   Minimum pavement widths for private streets shall be as follows:
         (a)   Collector streets: 30 feet;
         (b)   Minor streets: 24 feet;
         (c)   Cul-de-sac streets: 24 feet;
         (d)   Cul-de-sac turnarounds: 150 feet; and
         (e)   All dimensions are exclusive of parking areas.
      (6)   With respect to paving materials, curbs and gutters, grading,
intersections, off sets, and radii of curvature, the provisions of the
subdivision ordinance shall apply to private streets.
      (7)   Parking spaces perpendicular to private streets shall not be
located within the required pavement width.
   (G)   Street lighting.
      (1)   Street lights shall be designated to produce a minimum of 0.1
footcandle power throughout the street system. Potentially hazardous locations
such as intersections, major pedestrian crossings, and portions of streets
abutting service buildings and recreation areas shall be illuminated with a
minimum of 0.3 footcandle power.
      (2)   All gas or electric service to the street lighting system shall be
located underground.
   (H)   Pedestrian walkways.
      (1)   Individual walks to each MMH stand from paved streets or parking
areas are required and shall be a minimum of two feet in width.
      (2)   Common walks are required at locations where heavy pedestrian
traffic is likely to occur such as at entrances, service facilities, and
recreation areas. Common walks should be located through interior areas removed
from streets wherever possible.
      (3)   Individual and common walks shall be paved monolithically or
constructed of masonry or concrete moveable units placed sufficiently close
together to create a uniform surface. Individual walks shall not be less than
two feet in width. Common walks shall not be less than three and one-half feet
in width.
      (4)   No walk shall be used as a drainage way. Sudden changes in
alignment and gradient shall be avoided.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-22(c))
§ 157.378 UTILITIES AND REQUIRED SERVICES.
   (A)   Water supply and distribution systems.
      (1)   Where a public supply of water is reasonably available, connection
shall be made thereto and its supply used exclusively.
      (2)   Where a public supply of water is not reasonably available, a
private water supply system shall be developed to furnish a minimum of 150
gallons per day per MMH at a minimum pressure of 20 pounds per square inch and
approved by the Department of Public Health.
      (3)   All other applicable minimum requirements of the state’s Department
of Public Health must be met.
   (B)   Sewage systems.
      (1)   Where a public system of sewage collection and treatment is
reasonably available, all sewage and water-carried waste shall be disposed of
into such public system.
      (2)   Where public sewage treatment facilities are not reasonably
available, a private treatment system shall be approved by the Department of
Public Health. All sewage and water-carried waste shall be disposed of into
such private system. The plans must be approved prior to a building permit
being issued.
      (3)   All other applicable minimum requirements of the state’s Department
of Public Health must be met.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-22(d))
§ 157.379 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   All refuse shall be stored in water-tight containers located on each
manufactured/mobile home site or within 150 feet thereof.
   (B)   Refuse shall be collected at least weekly and transported to a
disposal site in compliance with state law. Incineration of any kind within a
park is prohibited.
   (C)   All other applicable minimum requirements of the state’s Department of
Public Health must be met.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-22(e)) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.380 ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Electrical installations in parks shall conform to the National
Electrical Code, latest edition.
   (B)   The electrical distribution system in all parks shall be underground.
   (C)   MMH site feeder circuits shall be rated for a capacity of not less
than 100 amperes of 120/240 volts. Additional secondary receptacles of not less
than 50 amperes each may be provided at manufactured/mobile home sites.
   (D)   The total load for a park shall be calculated on the basis of 16,000
watts per mobile home site. The minimum allowable demand factors which may be
used in calculating load on feeders and service are as follows.
Number of Manufactured/Mobile Home Sites Served Demand Factor (Percent)
Number of Manufactured/Mobile Home Sites Served Demand Factor (Percent)
1                                               100
2                                               55
5                                               33
10                                              27
20                                              25
50                                              23
100 or more                                     22
 
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-22(f))
§ 157.381 TELEGRAPH SERVICE AND TELEVISION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All telephone service to MMH shall be underground.
   (B)   Distribution of master television antenna service to MMH sites shall
be underground.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-22(g))
§ 157.382 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Parks shall be kept free of all liter, rubbish, or other accumulated
flammable materials. Inoperable or unlicensed vehicles are prohibited.
   (B)   If the park is served by a public water system, approved fire hydrants
shall be located throughout the park and shall be located not more than 500
feet from any manufactured/mobile home. The hydrants shall deliver a minimum of
75 gallons of water per minute at a pressure of 20 pounds per square inch at
the highest elevation point of the park.
   (C)   Fire extinguishers shall be provided in accordance with the state’s
Department of Public Health requirements.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-22(h))
§ 157.383 SERVICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER COMMUNITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   All parks shall provide the following community facilities:
      (1)   A management office;
      (2)   A community building which contains laundry and washroom
facilities;
      (3)   Management storage facilities; and
      (4)   A storage yard equal to 200 square feet for each five MMH sites for
boats, recreational vehicles, and the like.
   (B)   Other facilities as may be required by state statute.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-22(i))
§ 157.384 BUILDING PERMITS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner and/or developer of the park to
secure all zoning and building permits for the park. It is the individual site
renter or lessee’s responsibility to secure a MMH permit or a building permit
for accessory structures.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-22(j))
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 157.395 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the planned unit development regulations is to
encourage and allow for more creativity and flexibility in the development of
land than is possible under conventional zoning district regulations. The
planned unit development provides for more efficient use of the land and
encourages development practices that are more sensitive to the site and
surrounding environment.
   (B)    It is further intended that planned unit developments are to be
characterized by centralized ownership, integrated planning and architecture,
joint or common use of parking, maintenance of open space and other similar
facilities, and a appropriate selection and utilization of uses.
      (1)   The following objectives may be obtained through the use of the
planned unit development procedure:
         (a)   To permit the public a greater choice of development options
than would be possible under the strict application of the other sections of
this chapter;
         (b)   To promote the preservation of natural features and/or prime
agricultural land;
         (c)   To encourage development that is rational and economical in
relation to public infrastructure and services;
         (d)   To create a method for the permanent preservation of common open
space; and
         (e)   To encourages a land use which promotes the public health,
safety, comfort, morals, and welfare.
      (2)   The unique and substantially different character of planned unit
developments requires their administrative processing as a special use in this
chapter. Planned unit developments are more complex and of a different
character than other special uses, requiring the establishment herein of
specific and additional procedures, standards, and exceptions to govern the
recommendations of the Zoning Board of Appeals and the action of the County
Board.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-23(a))
§ 157.396 GENERAL.
   The basic provisions and requirements concerning planned unit developments
are as follows.
   (A)   The subdivision, development, and use of land as an integral unit,
combining one or more of the following land uses which may provide for a
single-family residential, multiple-family residential, educational, business,
commercial, industrial, recreational, park, and common open areas, may be
described as a planned unit development.
   (B)   In its establishment and authorization as a special use, the
procedures, requirements, restrictions, standards, and conditions listed in §§
157.398 through
157.401 shall be observed.
   (C)   The residential planned unit development is authorized as a special
use in the A-2, R-R, R-1, and R-2 Districts of this chapter and may contain
mixed uses, provided that:
      (1)   The non-residential components comprise only 10% of the square
footage of the planned development;
      (2)   The non-residential use is of a type that is either allowed by
right or by special use in the underlying district;
      (3)   No non-residential use exceeds 5,000 square feet; and
      (4)   Non-residential uses shall be clustered wherever practicable.
   (D)   The non-residential planned unit development is authorized as a
special use in the C-1, C-2, I-1, and I-2 Districts of this chapter.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-23(b))
§ 157.397 PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF A PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   An application for a special use permit shall be filed and processed
by the Community Development Department based upon procedures established by §§
157.435 through
157.447.
   (B)   The special use permit application shall be accompanied by a planned
unit development plat, which meets the preliminary plat requirements of the
subdivision ordinance in addition to the following:
      (1)   The entire outline, overall dimensions, and area of the tract
described in the application;
      (2)   The location, general dimensions, and approximate gross floor areas
of all proposed buildings;
      (3)   The type of each use proposed to occupy each building and the
approximate amount of building floor area devoted to each separate use;
      (4)   The proposed location, arrangement, and number of automobile
parking stalls;
      (5)   The proposed location, arrangement, and general dimensions of all
truck loading facilities;
      (6)   The location and dimensions of all vehicular entrances, exits, and
driveways and their relationship to all existing or proposed public streets;
      (7)   The location and dimensions of pedestrian entrances, exits, and
walks;
      (8)   The location and dimensions of all walls, fences, and planting
designed to screen the proposed district from adjacent uses;
      (9)   The type of all ground covers;
      (10)   Standards for exterior lighting, location and type of exterior
signs, and any other variables which will be controlled in the design of
buildings in the development area; and
      (11)   The applicant shall submit a proposed schedule of construction. If
the construction of the proposed planned unit development is to be in stages,
then the components obtained in each stage must be clearly delineated. The
development schedule shall indicate the starting date and the complete
development plan.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-23(c))
§ 157.398 PROPERTY CONTROL.
   The intent of the requirements below are to protect the property values of
the individual owner within the planned unit development through establishing
private control.
   (A)   In order that the purposes of this development may be achieved, the
property shall be in single ownership or under the management and supervision
of a central authority or otherwise subject to such supervisory lease or
ownership control as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Prior to the use, occupancy, sale, lease, or the execution of
contracts for the lease or sale of an individual building unit, parcel, tract,
townhouse, apartment, or common area, a declaration of covenants, conditions,
and restrictions or an equivalent document shall be filed with the County
Recorder of Deeds. A copy of said filing shall also be provided to the
Community Development Department.
   (C)   The declaration of covenants, conditions, and restrictions or
equivalent document shall specify that deeds, leases, or documents of
conveyance affecting buildings, units, parcels, tracts, townhouses, or
apartments shall subject said properties to the terms of said declaration.
   (D)   The declaration of covenants, conditions, and restrictions shall
provide that an owner’s association or corporation shall be formed and that all
owners or lessees shall be members of said association or corporation which
shall maintain all properties and common areas in good repair and which shall
assess individual property owners proportionate share of joint or common costs.
   (E)   (1)   The declaration shall additionally, amongst other things,
provide that in the event the association or corporation fails to maintain
properties in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the
county or fails to pay taxes or assessments on properties as they become due,
and in the event the county incurs any expenses in enforcing its rules and
regulations, which said expenses are not immediately reimbursed by the
association or corporation, then the county shall have the right to assess each
property its pro rata share of said expenses.
      (2)   Such assessments, together with interest thereon and costs of
collection, shall be a lien on each property against which each such assessment
is made and, in addition, each such assessment, together with such interest
thereon and such costs of collection thereof, shall also be a personal
obligation of the person who was the owner of such property at the time when
the assessment became payable.
   (F)   (1)   It is the intent of the subchapter to require subdivision of
property simultaneous with application for special use.
      (2)   The subdivision and/or platting of land as a planned unit
development shall be subject to the requirements for approval and recording
with the County Recorder of Deeds, as have been established by the county’s
Subdivision Code, adopted July 1997.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-23(d))
§ 157.399 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Setbacks. The front, rear and side setbacks shall be the same as the
district in which they are located.
   (B)   Spacing. Space between residential buildings, the minimum horizontal
distance between buildings side to side shall be:
      (1)   Ten feet between single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Ten feet between clustered or zero-lot line single-family attached
and detached dwellings;
      (3)   Fifteen feet between buildings, other than single-family detached
dwellings, of one, two, and one-half stories in elevation;
      (4)   Equal to the height of the taller building in the case of free
standing buildings greater than two and one-half stories in elevation; and
      (5)   The minimum horizontal distance between buildings corner to corner
shall be 15 feet or be as determined appropriate by the Zoning Board of Appeals
in reviewing the preliminary planned unit development plat to ensure that all
occupants receive a sufficient amount of light and air.
   (C)   Roadways.
      (1)   Private roadways within the project shall have a paved surface of
at least 20 feet or more in width and shall be so designated as to permit fire
trucks to provide protection to each building.
      (2)   No portion of the required 20 feet road system may be used in
calculating required off- street parking.
      (3)   When private streets and common driveways are made a part of the
planned unit development or private common open space or recreation facilities
are provided, the applicant shall submit, as part of the application, the
method and arrangement where by these private facilities shall be operated and
maintained. Such arrangements for operating and maintaining private facilities
shall be subject to the approval of the County Board.
   (D)   Subdivision and ownership. It shall be permissible within a planned
unit development to subdivide properties into lesser size parcels for
individual ownership and create common open space areas in undivided
proportions under joint ownerships. Such ownership arrangements are commonly
defined as condominium and/or cooperative developments. The joint area of the
project must, however, conform to the minimum area requirements established for
the respective district.
   (E)   Minimum project size.
      (1)   Within residential districts, a planned unit development shall not
be applied to a parcel of land containing less than one acre.
      (2)   Within a commercial or industrial district, a planned unit
development shall not be applied to a parcel of land containing less than two
acres.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-23(e))
§ 157.400 REVIEW AND EVALUATION.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend approval of a planned unit
development special use application if it has determined that all of the
following standards have been complied with:
   (A)   Compliance with the requirements listed in §§
157.397 through
157.399;
   (B)   A planned unit development must conform with the planning objectives
specified in the comprehensive plan;
   (C)   The uses permitted in a planned unit development must be of type and
so located as to exercise no undue detrimental influence upon surrounding
properties. In addition, the planned unit development shall not endanger the
public health, welfare, or safety, nor shall it substantially diminish or
impair property values in the neighborhood in which it is to be located;
   (D)   The planned unit development must be of a character and contain such
uses that are needed in the area of the proposed project;
   (E)   The density of a planned unit development (either in dwelling units
for residential uses, or in floor area for all other uses) shall generally
correspond to the density regulations imposed by the underlying zoning
district. The density of the planned unit development is not necessarily
required to precisely correspond with the normal density of the underlying
zoning district but instead should reflect that district’s character through
complimentary building types and architectural design;
   (F)   The planned unit development shall comply with the provisions of the
county’s subdivision regulations and development codes unless otherwise agreed
to and approved by the County Board;
   (G)   The interior traffic pattern plan plus ingress and egress onto public
rights-of-way does not create congestion or dangers and is adequate for the
safety of the project residents and general public;
   (H)   A sufficient amount of usable open space is provided;
   (I)   The development shall comply with the erosion, sediment, and
stormwater control ordinance; and
   (J)   The development schedule ensures a logical development of the site
which will protect the public interest and conserve land.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-23(f))
§ 157.401 AMENDMENT OF A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SPECIAL USE.
   (A)   The planned development project shall be developed only according to
the special use ordinance, the approved preliminary plat, and recorded final
plat and supporting documents. The special use ordinance and approved
preliminary and final plats shall be binding on the applicants, their
successors, grantees, and assigns, and shall limit their control, the use of
the premises, and location of structures in the planned unit development
project as set forth therein.
   (B)   Changes to the recorded planned unit development may be made as
follows.
      (1)   Major changes. All major changes shall be reviewed in accordance
with the procedures set forth in §§
157.435 through
157.447.
         (a)   Changes which alter the concept or intent of the planned unit
development, including changes in density, changes in the height of buildings,
changes in proposed open space, changes in total bedroom counts, changes in
road standards, changes in street design, or changes in the final governing
agreements, provisions, or covenants, or other changes, may be approved only by
submission and reconsideration of a new preliminary and/or final planned unit
development plat and supporting data and following the preliminary or final
plat procedure.
         (b)   If the major change alters data or evidence submitted during the
preliminary plat stage, then the resubmission must begin at the preliminary
plat stage. If only final plat evidence or data is altered as result of the
major change, then the resubmission shall begin at the final plat stage.
         (c)   All changes to the “original” final plat shall be recorded with
the County Recorder of Deeds as amendments to the final plat or reflected in
the recording of a new “corrected” final plat.
      (2)   Minor changes. The Community Development Department may review and
approve additional improvements or changes in a planned unit development,
provided that such changes comply with the following:
         (a)   Comply with the general intent of the planned unit development
special use;
         (b)   The changes do not constitute a major change as defined in the
previous section; and
         (c)   The proposed changes must comply with the requirements of the
underlying zoning district unless otherwise specified in the planned unit
development special use.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-23(g))
VARIANCES
§ 157.415 PURPOSE.
   In order to provide for the orderly consideration of variances in the
application of this chapter, in harmony with its general purpose and intent,
but where there are practical difficulties or particular hardships in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of the regulations established by this
chapter, the following procedures are adopted.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-24(a))
§ 157.416 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Community Development Administrator may approve applications for
Class B variances, without further action of the Zoning Board of Appeals in the
following circumstances:
      (1)   To permit any setback that is less than the setback permitted by
the applicable regulations of the zoning district, but by not more than 10%;
      (2)   To increase the height of any structures or the lot coverage of any
lot or parcel, but by not more than 10%; and
      (3)   To permit the use of a lot or lots not of record on the effective
date of this chapter for a purpose otherwise prohibited solely because of
insufficient area of width of the premises involved, if the area or width of
such premises is not less than 90% of that required.
   (B)   (1)   For variances to be approved solely by the Community Development
Administrator, a notice of the intent to grant such variance shall be sent by
certified mail to all adjoining landowners. If any adjoining landowner files a
written objection with the Community Development Administrator within 15 days
of receipt of the notice, the variance shall be referred to the Zoning Board of
Appeals for hearing.
      (2)   Variances approved solely by the Community Development
Administrator shall list in writing a findings of fact upon which approval or
denial of the variance is based.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may approve or deny applications for Class
B variances and shall issue findings of fact in support of any approval or
denial.
   (D)   When the Zoning Board of Appeals hears a request for a Class A
variance, or when the Zoning Board of Appeals cannot issue a decision due to a
lack of four concurring votes, variances in the application of this chapter
shall be granted only by the County Board by ordinance after considering the
findings and recommendations of the Zoning Board of Appeals and recommendation
of the Land Use Committee.
   (E)   For the purposes of this subchapter, a "Class A variance" includes any
variance which is related to a Class A zoning case. as referenced in §
157.480(D). Also for the purposes of this subchapter, any variance other than a
Class A variance is a "Class B variance."
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-24(b)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.417 APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE.
   Requests for variance shall be filed with the Community Development
Administrator and shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following
information:
   (A)   The names and address of the applicant and the name and address of the
owner, if applicant is not such owner;
   (B)   The legal description and address (if available) of the premises;
   (C)   The variance sought and the need for such variance requested;
   (D)   The present zoning classification of the proposed property and
surrounding zoning classifications; and
   (E)   A detailed site plan including; all existing and proposed buildings,
setbacks to all property lines and between all proposed and existing buildings,
and setbacks to well and septic systems (if applicable).
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-24(c)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.418 STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES.
   In evaluating variance requests, the following factors shall be considered,
not one of which shall be controlling:
   (A)   The particular surroundings, shape, or topographical conditions of the
specific property involved would result in a particular hardship upon the
owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict letter of the
regulations were to be carried out;
   (B)   The conditions upon which a petition for a variance are based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable,
generally, to other property;
   (C)   Granting the variance will not be detrimental to the public welfare,
nor injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which
the property is located or otherwise be inconsistent with any officially
adopted county plan or these regulations;
   (D)   The proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of light and
air to adjacent property, nor substantially increase the congestion in public
streets or increase the danger of fire, or endanger the public safety, or
substantially diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood;
   (E)   The purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon a desire to
increase the monetary gain realized from the property;
   (F)   The circumstances or conditions are such that the strict application
of the provisions of this section would deprive the applicant of reasonable use
of his or her property. Mere loss in value shall not justify a variance;
   (G)   The granting of the variance is the minimum adjustment necessary that
will make possible the reasonable use of the land or structure; and
   (H)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-24(d))
§ 157.419 CONDITIONS.
   Approval of a variance may be made subject to such conditions as are
necessary to carry out the purposes of these regulations and to prevent or
minimize adverse effects upon other property in the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-24(e))
§ 157.420 ACTION BY ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The ZBA shall conduct a public hearing to consider any variance from
the terms of these regulations in accordance with the requirements of §§
157.480 through
157.492.
   (B)   The ZBA shall review the application and the testimony at the public
hearing.
   (C)   In the case of Class B variances, the ZBA shall grant the variance
requested subject to specified conditions, or deny the variance. The report of
the ZBA in granting or denying a variance shall contain a findings of fact
specifying the reason for its decision.
   (D)   In the case of Class A variances, the ZBA shall make a report of its
findings to the County Board, and in said report the ZBA shall indicate its
recommendation. The report shall contain findings of fact specifying, where
applicable, the reason for the ZBA's recommendation of approval or denial.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-24(f)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.421 ACTION BY LAND USE COMMITTEE.
   When the case involves a Class A variance, the Land Use Committee may review
variance applications, the report of the ZBA, and the testimony at the ZBA
hearing and shall recommend approval or denial of the findings of fact and
recommendation by the ZBA to the County Board. The Land Use Committee may also
recommend tabling the variance request, or referral back to the ZBA for further
consideration.
(Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.422 ACTION BY COUNTY BOARD.
   When the case involves a Class A variance, or when the ZBA cannot issue a
decision due to a lack of four concurring votes, the County Board shall review
the proposed variance, the report of the ZBA, and the recommendation of the
Land Use Committee, and shall grant or deny the variance by a majority vote of
the members present constituting a quorum. The County Board may also table the
proposed variance or refer the petition back to the ZBA for further
consideration.
(Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.423 FEES.
   (A)   The petitioner shall pay all required fees associated with the request
as well as the required publication costs. The filing fee shall be paid to the
Community Development Administrator at the time of filing of the variance and
the publication cost shall be paid prior to any final disposition of the
request by the ZBA.
   (B)   When the case involves a Class A request, the applicant, upon
submittal of an application shall submit a certified check to the Tazewell
County Community Development Department in the amount of $50,000. A lesser
amount may be accepted at the Community Development Administrator's discretion
if defined criteria can be met. All funds shall be made payable to Tazewell
County. This amount shall be placed in a FDIC-insured money-market interest
bearing account and will be used to cover the County's cost incurred during the
review process and public hearings. The fund shall be used for, but not limited
to; costs of experts and attorneys retained by the county, cost incurred due to
additional hearing beyond the normally scheduled hearings, cost due to
additional staff time required to process and review the case and the cost of
any appeals or judicial review should it be necessary. Should the county find
it necessary to draw on such fees, written and detailed notice related to the
cost should be provided for review which shall not exceed a 15-day period.
Should the actual costs to the county exceed the cost deposit, the applicant
shall remit additional funds as outlined in the applicable fee schedule within
15 days of the receipt of written notice from the Tazewell County Community
Development Department. Total fee shall not exceed $100,000. The county may
refuse the issuance of a permit application or continue any hearings until
additional funds have been paid. In the absence of administrative review or
appeal, all remaining funds not drawn upon, including interest accrued, shall
be returned to the petitioner 45 days following the decision of the Tazewell
County Board.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-24(g)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
SPECIAL USES
§ 157.435 PURPOSE.
   In order to accomplish the general purpose of this chapter, certain unusual
uses need special considerations which are potentially incompatible with the
uses normally permitted in the zoning districts established herein. The purpose
of this subchapter to employ the special use as a flexible means of permitting
certain exceptions to the districts’ established and rules and regulations
adopted herein in cases where the public benefit of such uses outweighs the
potential harm, and under such conditions imposed as are necessary to protect
the public health, safety, and welfare and individual property rights.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-25(a))
§ 157.436 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following uses shall be subject to the standards and regulations
of this subchapter and to any additional requirements imposed in the public
interest to cover circumstances unique to the selected site. All conditions and
requirements set forth for a particular special use for the zoning district for
which the special use is located shall apply to the special use, except where
specifically amended by the terms of the particular special use permit.
   (B)   For the purposes of this subchapter, a "Class A special use" includes
any special use referenced in §
157.480(C)(1), regarding Class A zoning cases. Also for the purposes of this
subchapter, any special use other than a Class A special use is a "Class B
special use."
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-25(b)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.437 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   An application for special use permit shall be submitted to the Community
Development Administrator and shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
following information:
   (A)   State the name and address of the applicant and the name and address
of the owner, if applicant is not such owner;
   (B)   The legal description and address (if available) of property;
   (C)   A written description of the proposed use that includes information
concerning proposed hours of operation, expected traffic patterns, and any
other pertinent details concerning the proposed use;
   (D)   The present and proposed land use;
   (E)   The surrounding zoning classifications;
   (F)   An explanation of the need for the special use at the proposed site;
   (G)   A site plan which contains at a minimum the following:
      (1)   All existing and proposed buildings and structures on the site;
      (2)   All proposed parking and loading areas (when applicable);
      (3)   Proposed water and sewage systems;
      (4)   Placement of exterior lighting; and
      (5)   Landscaping.
   (H)   A copy of such site plan at a size not to exceed 11 inches by 14
inches; and
   (I)   A statement signed by the appropriate road official stating that the
proposed access way is adequate for the proposed use.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-25(c))
§ 157.438 STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   When considering an application for a special use permit, the decision
making body, based on evidence presented, shall find:
      (1)   The special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of this chapter for the district in which it is located.
Special uses when combined with variances for this same property shall be
considered compliant for the purposes of this section;
      (2)   The special use will be consistent with the purposes, goals,
objectives, and standards of the officially adopted county comprehensive land
use plan and these regulations, or of any officially adopted comprehensive plan
of a municipality with a one and one-half mile planning jurisdiction; and
      (3)   The petitioner has provided the information required by §
157.437, and has demonstrated the ability to complete the proposal shown in §
157.437(A) through (I), and has met those items required by the statements
described in §
157.437(I).
   (B)   When considering an application for a special use permit, the decision
making body, based on evidence presented, shall also find, not one of which
shall be controlling:
      (1)   The site shall be so situated as to minimize adverse effects,
including visual impacts on adjacent properties;
      (2)   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special use
shall not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals,
comfort, or general welfare of the neighboring vicinity;
      (3)   The special use shall not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted;
      (4)   The special use shall not substantially diminish and impair
property value within the neighborhood;
      (5)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
      (6)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion and hazard on the public
streets;
      (7)   The evidence establishes that granting the use, which is located
one-half mile or less from a livestock feeding operation, will not increase the
population density around the livestock feeding operation to such levels as
would hinder the operation or expansion of such operation;
      (8)   Evidence presented establishes that granting the use, which is
located more than one-half mile from a livestock feeding operation will not
hinder the operation or expansion of such operation;
      (9)   Seventy-five percent of the site contains soils having a
productivity index of less than 125;
      (10)   The special use is consistent with the existing uses of property
within the general area of the property in question; and
      (11)   The suitability of the property in question is for the special use
as proposed.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-25(d))
§ 157.439 PARTICULAR SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   (1)   Accessory structures prior to the principal structure;
      (2)   Adult entertainment establishment;
      (3)   Adaptive reuse of existing structures;
      (4)   Bed and breakfast;
      (5)   Borrow pits;
      (6)   Cemeteries;
      (7)   Chickens/fowl;
      (8)   Day care center;
      (9)   Day care home;
      (10)   Game breeding/shoot preserve;
      (11)   Golf courses;
      (12)   Golf driving range;
      (13)   Gravel pits;
      (14)   Home commercial special use;
      (15)   Kennel, commercial;
      (16)   Landscape waste composting and mulching facility;
      (17)   Manufactured/mobile homes for retired/disabled persons;
      (18)   Manufactured/mobile homes, accessory to agriculture;
      (19)   Recreational facilities, Class I, Class II, and Class III;
      (20)   Shooting range, outdoor;
      (21)   Personal storage/recreational buildings;
      (22)   Single-family dwellings;
      (23)   Outdoor/indoor paintball facilities;
      (24)   Residential accessory structures;
      (25)   Wind energy conversion systems; and
      (26)   Small wind energy systems.
   (B)   Other uses of such an unusual nature that their operation may give
rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon neighboring property
or public facilities, and which are not allowed by right may also be allowed by
special use, subject to the basic requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-25(e)) (Res. LU-25-06, passed 6-26-2025; Res. LU-25-11,
passed 9-24-2025)
§ 157.440 REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICULAR SPECIAL USES.
   In addition to the information required in §
157.437, the following contains information and requirements specific to each
special use listed.
   (A)   Accessory structures prior to principal structures. Specific
regulations for accessory structures prior to the principal structures in the
R-1 and R-2 Zoning Districts:
      (1)   The accessory structure shall not exceed a total of 1,200 square
feet;
      (2)   The accessory structure shall meet all setback requirements for an
accessory structure for the zoning districts it is located;
      (3)   The accessory structure shall only be used for personal storage and
for equipment necessary to maintain the property; and
      (4)   The building permit for construction of the principal structure
shall be applied for by the applicant and issued by the Community Development
Administrator within three years from the date of approval by the Zoning Board
of Appeals. If the applicant is unable to meet this criteria, the applicant
shall be required to reappear before the Zoning Board of Appeals for
reconsideration of the request within three years from the date of approval by
the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Adult entertainment establishment. Specific regulations for adult
entertainment establishments in the C-2 Zoning District:
      (1)   An adult entertainment establishment shall not be allowed within
500 feet of another existing adult use;
      (2)   An adult entertainment establishment shall not be located within
700 feet of any agriculture or residential zoning district;
      (3)   An adult entertainment establishment shall not be located within
700 feet of a pre- existing school or place of worship;
      (4)   An adult entertainment establishment shall not be located in a
structure which contains another business that sells or dispenses in some
manner alcoholic beverages;
      (5)   For the purpose of these regulations, measurements shall be made in
a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
property line of the proposed adult entertainment establishment to the nearest
property line of another adult use, school, place of worship, or district zoned
agriculture or residential; and
      (6)   The adult entertainment establishment shall meet all requirements
of
Chapter 150.
   (C)   Adaptive reuse of existing structures. Specific requirements for
adaptive reuse of existing structures in the R-1 Low Density Residential
Districts:
      (1)   The existing structure(s) for which the adaptive reuse is sought
shall have been existence at the site for a minimum of ten years prior to the
date of a special use petition;
      (2)   The proposed adaptive reuse does not meet the regulations and
standards of other special use permits in the particular districts in which it
is located; and
      (3)   The special use application shall set forth the specific proposed
new uses, which may include one or more of the following uses or in
combination: personal service establishment; specialized care facilities;
multi-family dwellings; commercial retail establishment; health club or fitness
centers; and offices (business and professional).
   (D)   Bed and breakfast. Specific regulations for bed and breakfast in the
R-R Rural Residential, R-1 and R-2 Zoning Districts:
      (1)   An owner or operator must reside at the establishment while guest
rooms are rented; and
      (2)   No guests may stay at the establishment for a total of more than 30
days in any period of 12 consecutive calendar months.
   (E)   Borrow pits. Specific regulations for borrow pits in the A-
1 Agricultural Preservation Zoning District and A-2 Agriculture District:
      (1)   All excavations shall be subject to the setback and yard
restrictions for a principal structure in the district in which they are
located; and
      (2)   Copies of all applicable county and state permits shall be
submitted to the Community Development Department prior to the issuance of any
permits by its office.
   (F)   Cemeteries. Specific regulations for cemeteries in the A-
1 Agricultural Preservation, A-2 Agriculture, R-R Rural Residential, R-1, and
R-2 Zoning Districts:
      (1)   All graves and burial lots shall have two side yards and a rear
yard of at least 25 feet each, which are to contain no graves or burial lots,
and a setback of at least 30 feet from any right- of-way bounding the cemetery,
which contain no graves or burial lots; and
      (2)   All burial buildings, such as mausoleums, vaults, and columbariums,
shall be setback at least 85 feet from any street bounding a cemetery and there
shall be two side yards and rear yard of at least 55 feet each, which may
contain graves or burial lots with the setback set forth in division (F)(1)
above.
   (G)   Chickens/fowl. The inability to comply with the regulation of §
157.060 Chickens/fowl shall require special use for chickens/fowl in the R-
1 Low Density Residential and R-2 Multi Family Residential District(s).
   (H)   Day care center. Specific regulations for day care centers in the R-
R Rural Residential, R-1, R-2, and C-1 Zoning Districts:
      (1)   All facilities shall comply with the requirements of the County
Health Department and the state for the type of facility being proposed;
      (2)   In addition to the front yard required in the zone in which the
facility is located, there shall be two side yards and a rear yard of at least
30 feet each. No outside recreation apparatus or play fields shall be located
within 30 feet of any rear or side yard; and
      (3)   All outdoor recreation areas within 200 feet of a street or
boundary line shall be bounded with a fence.
   (I)   Day care home. Specific regulations for day care homes in the R-
R Rural Residential, R- 1, and C-1 Zoning Districts:
      (1)   All facilities shall comply with the requirements of the County
Health Department and the state for the type of facility being proposed; and
      (2)   All outdoor recreation areas within 200 feet of a street or
boundary line shall be bound with a fence.
   (J)   Game breeding/shoot preserve. Specific regulations for game breeding
and shoot preserves in the A-1 Agricultural Preservation Zoning District and
Conservation District:
      (1)   A letter from the state’s Department of Conservation is required,
stating that the proposed area meets the requirements of that Department for
the establishment of a game breeding and shooting preserve area;
      (2)   Discharge of any gun used to take aim on a preserve area, must fall
within the limits of the preserve area unless written permission is obtained
from surrounding landowners;
      (3)   The area shall comply with all requirements established by the
state relating to game breeding and shooting preserve areas (520 ILCS 5/3.27
though 5/3.35); and
      (4)   All state and/or federal permits required shall be obtained prior
to issuance of a special use permit.
   (K)   Golf courses. Specific regulations for golf courses in the A-2, R-R,
R-1, and R-2 Zoning Districts: Golf courses, including uses normally ancillary
to such uses, such as restaurants, but not including commercially operated
driving ranges or miniature golf courses, provided such ancillary uses,
parking, and all structures shall be located at least 500 feet from any
adjacent dwellings and 100 feet from the side and rear lot line.
   (L)   Golf driving range. Specific regulations for golf driving ranges in
the A-2, Rural Residential, R-1, R-2, and C-1 Zoning Districts: Golf driving or
miniature golf courses, provided parking and all structures are located at
least 500 feet from any adjacent dwellings and 100 feet from the side and rear
lot line.
   (M)   Gravel pits. Specific regulations for gravel pits in the A-1, A-2,
Conservation, I-1, and the I-2 Zoning Districts:
      
      (1)   In addition to the application requirements, the following shall be
submitted:
         (a)   A map showing:
            1.   The location of all property lines, existing roads, easements,
utilities, and other significant features;
            2.   The existing conditions on the tract, including contour lines
(at least five-foot intervals), watercourses, existing drainage facilities, and
wooded areas;
            3.   The existing buildings and structures with an indication of
those which will be retained as part of the development; and
            4.   The existing land uses of adjacent tracts.
         (b)   Site plan of operations demonstrating the following:
            1.   Excavation lines in relation to property lines;
            2.   Ingress and egress during operation;
            3.   Proposed buffer strips and plantings; and
            4.   Stock piles of mineral material and overburden
      (2)   Where overburden will exceed ten feet in depth or where the
operation will affect more than ten acres during a permit year, an operating
permit, including any conservation and reclamation plan and requisite bonding,
shall be secured as required by the IEPA or the state’s Department of Mines and
Minerals, in accordance with provision of the Surface-Mined Land Conservation
and Reclamation Act, 225 ILCS 715/1 et seq. Proof of such bonding and plans
shall be submitted to the Community Development Administrator prior to
operations;
      (3)   Where overburden will not exceed ten feet in depth and where the
operation will not affect more than ten acres during a permit year, a
reclamation plan shall be submitted to the Community Development Administrator
along with bonding for the cost of reclamation at the time of filing the
special use application;
      (4)   All gravel pits shall be inspected by the state’s Department of
Mines and Minerals at least every three months pursuant to 225 ILCS 710/9.01.
The operator of the mine shall send of a copy of such record inspection to the
Community Development Administrator;
      (5)   (a)   No mineral extraction operation shall be carried out within
1,000 linear feet of any existing dwelling or within 300 feet of any existing
structure (other than a dwelling), other than those owned by the applicant for
the permit, unless written permission is first obtained from the owner of such
dwelling or structure; and
         (b)   The stock piling of overburden shall be permitted within the
buffer strips permitted. However, a perimeter setback of 100 feet shall be
maintained free of equipment, stockpiles, and overburden.
      (6)   All excavations and stockpiles shall be treated as structures for
these regulations with regard to setback from property lines; and
      (7)   (a)   Trucks entering and leaving a mineral extraction facility
shall meet the weight requirements of affected roads; and
         (b)   In the event that haulage roads relating to the mineral
extraction facility intersect with collector, county, state, or other public
roadways, the operator shall be responsible for obtaining a permit from the
regulating agency of that particular road and for such other safe traffic
contract as the ZBA may require.
   (N)   Home commercial special use. Specific regulations for home commercial
special use in the A-1, A-2, and Rural Residential Zoning Districts:
      (1)   A home commercial special use shall be permitted only in
conjunction with a single- family dwelling;
      (2)   Articles may be sold or offered for sale on the premises;
      (3)   Materials or equipment may be stored outdoors, provided such
storage is screened from surrounding property and from any abutting street;
      (4)   No heat, glare, noise, vibration, noxious or toxic fumes, odors,
vapors, gases, particulate, or similar matter shall be produced at any time
which are readily detectable without the use of instruments at any point on the
boundaries of the premises; and
      (5)   One identification sign may be displayed. Such sign may be
illuminated by white, non-flashing lights, said illumination to be only during
daylight hours. Such sign shall not extend beyond the lot lines, shall not
obstruct the view of motorists entering or leaving the premises or adjacent
property, and shall not exceed six square feet in area.
   (O)   Kennel, commercial. Specific regulation for commercial kennels in the
A-1, A-2, R-R, C-1, C-2, and I-1 Zoning Districts:
      (1)   The applicant shall provide evidence, prior to or at the public
hearing, of all applicable permits required by the state pursuant to state
statutes;
      (2)   In the A-2 and R-R Districts, no kennels shall be located closer
than 200 feet from any off-site residential building or 100 feet from any
property line, unless maintained within a completely enclosed building; and
      (3)   There shall be no objectionable odors noticeable at or beyond the
lot line.
   (P)   Landscape waste composting and mulching facility. Special regulations
for landscape waste composting and mulching facility in the A-1, A-2, I-1, and
I-2 Zoning Districts:
      (1)   All facilities shall be accompanied by copies of all valid permits
issued and required by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and all
other applicable local, state, or federal agencies;
      (2)   All landscape waste composting and mulching facilities shall be
located on a site containing at least five acres;
      (3)   (a)   The location of the portion of the site where active
biological decomposition of the landscape waste is taking place shall not be
located less than 500 feet from the following:
            1.   A lot line of any lot containing a residence that exists prior
to the establishment of the composting operation; and
            2.   A boundary line of a R-1, R-2, Rural Residential, C-1, or C-
2 Zoning District that exists prior to the establishment of the composting
operation.
         (b)   The location of all operations of such landscape waste
composting facility shall be outside the boundary of any special flood hazard
area.
      (4)   Unless otherwise specifically noted, the location of the portion of
the site where active biological decomposition of the landscape waste is taking
place shall be setback a minimum of 200 feet from all other property lines. In
addition, the facility shall be setback not less than 200 feet from a potable
water supply;
      (5)   Evidence shall be submitted to show that the operation shall be
conducted in such a manner as to prevent the blowing of any waste materials or
dust particulate matter onto adjoining property or roadway;
      (6)   The proposed hours of operations shall be submitted with the
special use permit application for the facility. In no case, however, shall the
facility operate before sunrise or after sunset;
      (7)   A reclamation plan along with the bonding for the cost of
reclamation shall be submitted with the application;
      (8)   Each landscape waste composting facility shall have a landscape
buffer around its perimeter. The Zoning Board of Appeals may require a greater
buffer to protect adjacent property from adverse visual, noise, and other
impacts associated with a specific compost facility;
      (9)   The operation shall provide entrances with ingress and egress so
designed as to minimize traffic congestion. No more than one vehicle entrance
shall be allowed for each 660 feet of lot frontage on a public street. There
shall be enough room on-site to accommodate peak traffic volume and company
vehicles;
      (10)   Storage bins may be allowed to be stored on-site as an ancillary
use, provided they are durable, covered, and meet the same setbacks required
for accessory/principal structures on the site. The number of storage bins may
be limited by the ZBA/County Board and shall be completely screened from view
from off-site;
      (11)   All roads, driveways, parking lots, and loading and unloading
areas within 100 feet of any lot line shall be graded and paved asphalt/
concrete surface; and
      (12)   The sale or marketing of any composted or mulched waste material
at retail or wholesale from such facility shall be allowed only when such sale
or marketing is accessory and incidental to the composting and mulching
facility.
   (Q)   Manufactured/mobile homes for retired/disabled persons. Special
regulations for manufactured/mobile homes for retired/disabled persons in the
A-1, A-2, Conservation, R-1, R-2, and Rural Residential Zoning Districts:
      (1)   One manufactured/mobile home may be located on the same lot or
tract of land on which a single-family detached dwelling is occupied as a
permanent residence by a family member;
      (2)   The manufactured/mobile home shall be placed on a solid foundation
or on a concrete pad with complete skirting, and shall be provided with a water
supply and sanitary sewage system as approved by the County Health Department;
      (3)   The manufactured/mobile home shall not violate any recorded
subdivision regulation or covenant; and
      (4)   A permit issued for such special use shall extend only to the
person or persons named therein as the occupants of the manufactured/mobile
home, and shall expire when the manufactured/mobile home is vacated by such
person or persons, or when the dwelling on the premises is no longer occupied
by a family member. Upon expiration of the permit, said manufactured/mobile
home shall be removed from the premises within 90 days thereafter.
   (R)   Manufactured/mobile homes, accessory to agriculture. Specific
regulations for manufactured/ mobile homes accessory to agriculture in the A-1,
A-2, and Conservation Districts:
      (1)   One manufactured/mobile home may be located on the same lot or
tract of land on which a single-family detached dwelling is occupied by the
farm owner;
      (2)   The manufactured/mobile home shall be placed on a solid foundation
or on a concrete pad with complete skirting, and shall be provided with a water
supply and sanitary sewage system as approved by the County Health Department;
and
      (3)   A permit for such special use shall only allow employees of the
farm owner to occupy the permitted manufactured/mobile home. Once the accessory
to agriculture use of the manufactured/mobile home ceases, said manufactured/
mobile home shall be removed from the premises within 90 days.
   (S)   Personal storage/recreational buildings. Specific regulations for
personal recreational buildings, Class I, Class II, and Class III in the R-1,
A-1, A-2, Conservation, C-2, I-1, and I-2 Zoning Districts:
      (1)   No recreational activity, spectator area, building, or parking lot
shall be located closer than 100 feet to any residentially developed/zoned
property; and
      (2)   Copies of all inspection reports and other paperwork from the
state’s Carnival Amusement Ride Inspection Division and other governing
authorities shall be provided to the Community Development Administrator every
30 days.
   (T)   Shooting range, out door. Specific regulations for outdoor shooting
ranges in the A-2, I-1, and I-2 Zoning Districts:
      (1)   The layout of all handgun, rifle, shotgun, trap, and skeet ranges
shall conform to the most current, as of December 31, 1997, National Rifle
Association standards with regard to layout and dimensions. The range shall be
fenced around the perimeter of the area;
      (2)   Outdoor shooting ranges shall be located at least 1,000 feet from
the building restriction line of any dwelling;
      (3)   An earthen berm shall be provided at least 20 feet high and six
feet thick at the top, and constructed as not to cause ricochets;
      (4)   The outdoor shooting range shall be covered by accident and
liability insurance; and
      (5)   A sign shall be posted on the range site listing allowable types of
firearms and stating the rules of operation.
   (U)   Single-family dwellings. Specific regulations for non-farm single-
family detached dwelling sites in the A-1 Agricultural Preservation, A-
2 Agriculture, and Conservation Zoning Districts:
      (1)   Each lot shall be located a distance of at least one-half mile from
a livestock feeding operation, measured from the nearest corner of either the
earthen waste lagoon or livestock feeding operation, whichever is closer, to
the corner of the proposed dwelling;
      (2)   Lots that are located more than one-half mile from a livestock
feeding operation, measured from the nearest corner of either the earthen waste
lagoon or livestock feeding operation, whichever is closer, to the corner of
the proposed dwelling, may be granted if the lot meets the standards as found
in §
157.438;
      (3)   The division of a parcel for special use consideration shall be
allowed to occur only one time on any parcel of land;
      (4)   In order to minimize the conversion of important prime agricultural
land in the county, first preference for land conversion for new zoning lots
shall be given to land containing soils having a productivity index of less
than 125 on at least 75% of the parcel;
      (5)   Each such lot shall be at least one acre in size and contain 20
feet of frontage on a public road, and the minimum lot width at the front
building setback line shall be 200 feet; and
      (6)   Each such lot shall meet the requirements of Chapter 152 regulating
development in floodplain areas.
   (V)   Outdoor/indoor paintball facilities. Specific regulations for
paintball facilities in the A-1, A-2, I-1, I-2, and Conservation Zoning
Districts:
      (1)   Operation is required to maintain membership in the American
Paintball League (or similar reputable national organization) and enforce their
operating rules, as of December 31, 1998;
      (2)   No outdoor paintball activities shall take place:
         (a)   Within 30 feet of a property line if there is an effective
barrier to the paintballs which is aesthetically appealing, safety wise, and
compatible with the neighboring properties; or
         (b)   Within 200 feet of a property line if there is not an effective
barrier.
      (3)   A copy of the current liability policy for bodily injury shall be
provided to the Community Development Department; and
      (4)   A sign-off shall be provided from the County Health Department for
food service provided for remuneration and for sanitation facilities.
   (W)   Wind energy conversions systems. Specific regulations for wind energy
conversion systems in the A-1 and A-2 Zoning Districts: Wind energy conversion
systems shall meet all requirements of §§
153.01 through
153.08.
   (X)   Small wind energy systems. Specific regulations for small wind energy
systems: Small wind energy systems shall meet all requirements of §§
153.20 through
153.28.
   (Y)   Banquet facilities.
      (1)   Specific regulations and submittal requirements for banquet
facilities in the A-1, A-2, and the RR Zoning Districts shall include the
following:
         (a)   The expected number of attendees per event;
         (b)   The number of events per year;
         (c)   The number of employees;
         (d)   The hours of operation;
         (e)   Sound amplification to be used and a plan to minimize any
amplified sounds;
         (f)   Temporary structures or tents to be used in association with the
planned events;
         (g)   Signage;
         (h)   Security to be provided; and
         (i)   Location of all trash receptacles.
      (2)   Regulations:
         (a)   All structures shall meet the county’s Building and Property
Maintenance Code requirements;
         (b)   Temporary structures, including tents and canopies may be
erected no more than 72 hours prior to an event and shall be removed no more
than 72 hours following an event;
         (c)   There shall be no overnight accommodations;
         (d)   In addition to the regulations under §
157.316(G) and (H), parking for ADA access shall be paved with a hard surface
and a reserved parking sign for ADA compliance shall be installed; and
         (e)   All events shall end by 11:00 p.m. END shall mean that all
activities are concluded and all clients and guests have departed.
   (Z)   Personal recreational buildings. Specific regulations for personal
recreational buildings as a principal structures in the RR, A-1, A-2, and
Conservation Zoning Districts.
      (1)   The structure shall not exceed 2,500 square feet;
      (2)   The structural shall meet the principal structure setbacks for the
zoning district in which it is permitted;
      (3)   The structure shall be used for; storage of personal or family
owned items such as; vehicles, recreational equipment/vehicles and equipment to
maintain the property;
      (4)   The building may be equipped with restroom facilities when
accompanied by an approved septic system. Sleeping rooms are prohibited.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-25(f)) (Ord. LU-17-14, passed 11-15-2017; Ord. LU-18-06,
passed 6-27-2018; Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023; Res. LU-25-06, passed 6-26-
2025; Res. LU-25-07, passed 6-26-2025; Res. LU-25-11, passed 9-24-2025)
§ 157.441 CONDITIONS.
   The ZBA, Community Development Administrator, and the Land Use Planner may
recommend the attachment of such conditions to a special use permit as are
necessary to carry out the purposes of the comprehensive plan and to prevent or
minimize adverse effects upon other property in the neighborhood including, but
not limited to, limitations on size and location, requirements for landscaping
and lighting, provisions of adequate ingress and egress, and other conditions
such as the duration of the permit, hours of operation, and mitigation of
environmental impacts.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-25(g))
§ 157.442 ACTION BY ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The ZBA shall conduct a public hearing to consider the special use
proposal in accordance with the provisions in §§
157.480 through
157.492.
   (B)   The ZBA shall review the special use application, the recommendation
of the Community Development Administrator and Land Use Planner, and the
testimony at the public hearing.
   (C)   In the case of Class A special uses, the ZBA shall make a report of
its findings to the County Board, and in said report the ZBA shall indicate its
recommendation. The report shall contain findings of fact specifying, where
applicable, the reason for the ZBA's recommendation of approval or denial.
   (D)   In the case of Class B special uses, the ZBA shall issue its findings
of fact and decision indicating approval, approval with conditions, or denial
of the proposed special use permit.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-25(h)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.443 ACTION BY LAND USE COMMITTEE.
   When the case involves a Class A special use, or when the ZBA cannot issue a
decision due to lack of four concurring votes, the Land Use Committee may
review special use applications, the report of the ZBA, the recommendation of
the Community Development Administrator and Land Use Planner, and shall
recommend approval or denial of the findings of fact and recommendation by the
ZBA to the County Board. The Land Use Committee may also recommend tabling the
special use or referral back to the ZBA for further consideration.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-25(i)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.444 ACTION BY COUNTY BOARD.
   When the case involves a Class A special use, or when the ZBA cannot issue a
decision due to lack of four concurring votes, the County Board shall review
the proposed special use, the report of the ZBA, the recommendation of the Land
Use Committee, and the recommendation of the Community Development
Administrator and Land Use Planner, and shall grant or deny the application for
special use permit by a majority vote of the members present constituting a
quorum. The County Board may also table the proposed special use or refer the
petition back to the ZBA for further consideration.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-25(j)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.445 FEES.
   (A)   The petitioner shall pay all required fees associated with the request
as well as the required publication costs. The filing fee shall be paid to the
Community Development Department at the time of filing of the special use and
the publication cost shall be paid prior to any final disposition of the
request by the County Board.
   (B)   When the case involves a Class A request, the applicant, upon
submittal of an application shall submit a certified check to the Tazewell
County Community Development Department in the amount of $50,000. A lesser
amount may be accepted at the Community Development Administrator's discretion
if defined criteria can be met. All funds shall be made payable to Tazewell
County. This amount shall be placed in a FDIC-insured money-market interest
bearing account and will be used to cover the county's cost incurred during the
review process and public hearings. The fund shall be used for, but not limited
to; costs of experts and attorneys retained by the county, cost incurred due to
additional hearing beyond the normally scheduled hearings, cost due to
additional staff time required to process and review the case and the cost of
any appeals or judicial review should it be necessary. Should the county find
it necessary to draw on such fees, written and detailed notice related to the
cost should be provided for review which shall not exceed a 15-day period.
Should the actual costs to the county exceed the cost deposit, the applicant
shall remit additional funds as outlined in the applicable fee schedule within
15 days of the receipt of written notice from the Tazewell County Community
Development Department. Total fee shall not exceed $100,000. The county may
refuse the issuance of a permit application or continue any hearings until
additional funds have been paid. In the absence of administrative review or
appeal, all remaining funds not drawn upon, including interest accrued, shall
be returned to the petitioner 45 days following the decision of the Tazewell
County Board.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-25(k)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.446 IMPLEMENTATION AND CESSATION.
   (A)   If a special use that has been granted is not implemented according to
the plans as presented and approved within one year from the date of approval
by the ZBA, such special use shall be rescinded by the Community Development
Administrator.
   (B)   A special use about to expire may be extended for a year by
application for renewal through written request of said special use to the
Zoning Board of Appeals, only if there are no changes proposed from the initial
approval. If changes are proposed aside from a request for extension the
original application, the request shall be considered a new request and the
application process shall be in accordance with the requirements of §§
 157.480 through
157.492.
   (C)   If a special use that has been granted and implemented, subsequently
ceases operation for a period of six consecutive months, that special use shall
be deemed terminated and shall not be reestablished except by following the
process as required for the initial grant of such use.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-25(l)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.447 REVOCATION.
   (A)   In any case where the requirements of the special use or conditions
thereof are not being met based upon a report from the Community Development
Administrator, the County Board may refer the matter to the Zoning Board of
Appeals for public hearing to consider revocation of said special use. A
decision to either utilize or forego this revocation procedure shall not
preclude in any way the county’s ability to seek legal remedies through the
court system.
   (B)   Any hearing for revocation undertaken by the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall be in accordance with §§
157.480 through
157.492.
   (C)   Subsequent to the public hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
make a decision with attached findings of fact.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-25(m))
TEXT AND MAP AMENDMENTS
§ 157.460 PURPOSE.
   The County Board is hereby authorized to amend the text of these regulations
or the zoning district map in light of changing conditions and in light of
changes to the comprehensive plan. The provisions of this subchapter are not
intended to relieve particular hardships nor confer special privileges.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-26(a))
§ 157.461 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Text amendments. To achieve the purpose of this chapter, text
amendments may be proposed by the County Board, the ZBA, the Land Use
Committee, the Community Development Administrator, any resident of the county,
or any developer of property located within the county.
   (B)   Map amendments. Amendments to the zoning district map (which affect
individual parcel(s) of land) may be proposed by the owner of property
involved, a non-owner with written permission of such property owner, the
County Board, the ZBA, the Land Use Committee, or the Community Development
Administrator.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-26(b))
§ 157.462 APPLICATION.
   Proposals for rezonings shall be filed with the Community Development
Administrator and shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following
information:
   (A)   The legal description and address (if available) of subject property;
   (B)   The current and the requested zoning classifications;
   (C)   The present and proposed use of the land;
   (D)   The surrounding zoning classifications;
   (E)   The names and addresses of owners of petitioned property;
   (F)   An explanation of the need for the rezoning at the proposed site;
   (G)   A site plan not to exceed 11 inches by 14 inches;
   (H)   A statement signed by the appropriate road official stating that the
proposed access way is adequate for the proposed use, where applicable; and
   (I)   If the property is to be served by a private water system and/or
private sewage disposal system, a statement signed by the appropriate health
official stating that the proposed water system and/or sewage disposal system
shall be adequate for the proposed use, where applicable.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-26(c))
§ 157.463 EVALUATION BY ZBA.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consider and make recommendations on
proposed zoning amendments.
   (B)   The following factors shall be considered as a minimum by the ZBA when
a zoning amendment is proposed:
      (1)   The testimony at the public hearing;
      (2)   The Soil and Water Conservation District report;
      (3)   The county’s land use plan;
      (4)   Existing zoning of the parcel in question and the area within one
mile radius of the parcel in question;
      (5)   Location of the parcel in question;
      (6)   Size of the parcel in question;
      (7)   Natural amenities and resources of the parcel in question;
      (8)   All other resources deemed relevant and presented at the public
hearing for the proposed zoning amendment; and
      (9)   Standards for amendments listed in §
157.464.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-26(d))
§ 157.464 STANDARDS FOR AMENDMENTS.
   In evaluating text or map amendments, the following factors shall be
considered, not one of which shall be controlling.
   (A)   Text or map amendments.
      (1)   The proposed amendment shall not be detrimental to the orderly
development of the county.
      (2)   The proposed amendment shall not be detrimental to or endanger the
public health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the county.
   (B)   Map amendments. In addition to the above criteria, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall also make findings on map amendments with respect to the
following:
      (1)   Whether the request is consistent with existing uses of property
within the general area of the property in question;
      (2)   Whether the request is consistent with the zoning classifications
of property within the general area of the property in question;
      (3)   The suitability of the property in question for the uses permitted
under the existing zoning classification;
      (4)   The suitability of the property in question for the uses permitted
under the proposed zoning classification;
      (5)   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the
property in question, including changes, if any, which may have taken place
since the property in question was placed in its present zoning classification;
      (6)   The length of time the property has been vacant as zoned,
considered in the context of the land development in the area surrounding the
subject property;
      (7)   The proposed map amendment is within one and one-half miles of a
municipality with an adopted comprehensive plan;
      (8)   The relative gain to the public as compared to the hardship imposed
upon the individual property owner; and
      (9)   The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives,
and policies of the comprehensive plan.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-26(e))
§ 157.465 ACTION BY ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The ZBA shall conduct a public hearing to consider any amendment to
the text of this chapter or the zoning district map in accordance with the
provisions as established in §§
157.480 through
157.492.
   (B)   Following review of the amendment and testimony at the public hearing,
the ZBA shall make a report to the County Board with its findings and
recommendation of approval or denial of the amendment.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-26(f))
§ 157.466 ACTION BY LAND USE COMMITTEE.
   The Land Use Committee may review the proposed amendment, the report of the
ZBA, the recommendation of the Community Development Administrator and Land Use
Planner, and shall recommend approval or denial of the findings of fact and
recommendation by the ZBA to the County Board. The Land Use Committee may also
recommend tabling the amendment or referral back to the ZBA for further
consideration.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-26(g))
§ 157.467 ACTION BY THE COUNTY BOARD.
   (A)   The County Board shall review the proposed amendment, report of the
ZBA, and recommendation of the Land Use Committee, and shall grant or deny the
text or map amendment by majority vote of these members present.
   (B)   In the following cases, no amendment shall be passed except by the
favorable vote of three- fourths of all the members of the County Board:
      (1)   If a written protest against the proposed amendment is filed with
the County Clerk at least 72 hours prior to the County Board making its final
determination, and is signed and acknowledged by:
         (a)   The owner or owners of at least 20% of the land to be rezoned;
or
         (b)   The owner or owners of land immediately touching, or immediately
across a street, alley, or public right-of-way from, at least 20% of the
perimeter of the land to be rezoned.
      (2)   If the land affected by proposed amendment lies within one and one-
half miles of the limits of a zoned municipality and a written protest is
passed by the governing body of the zoned municipality, and filed with the
County Clerk at least 72 hours prior to the County Board making its final
determination; or
      (3)   If written protests against the text amendment have been signed by
5% of the landowners of the county.
   (C)   If a written protest is ruled invalid, the proposed amendment may be
carried over until the next meeting of the County Board by proper motion of any
member of the County Board to allow the protesters to amend the written protest
for it to be in proper form for presentation to the County Board. The amended
written protest must be submitted to the County Clerk 72 hours prior to the
County Board meeting.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-26(h))
§ 157.468 FEES.
   The petitioner shall pay all required fees associated with the request as
well as the required publication costs. The filing fee shall be paid to the
Community Development Department at the time of filing of the amendment and the
publication cost shall be paid prior to any final disposition of the request by
the County Board.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-26(i))
APPLICATION AND HEARING PROCEDURES
§ 157.480 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for any zoning amendment, variance, or special use shall
be filed in the office of the Community Development Administrator. The original
copy of such applications shall be retained by the Community Development
Administrator and a copy shall be filed with the County Clerk’s office. If such
application is in proper form, a hearing date will be set before the Zoning
Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals will not consider the sufficiency
of the application and evidence until after a public hearing has been held and
all parties have been given an opportunity to address such application,
evidence, and documents.
   (B)   After said hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall make a finding
as to the sufficiency of the application, evidence, documents, and testimony
and shall report its finding in its recommendation to the County Board in
applications concerning zoning amendments. In applications for variances for
special uses, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall issue a decision and findings
of fact which shall be final administrative decisions for purposes of review
under the Administrative Review Act, being 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq. In any case
where the ZBA does not issue a decision, the decision of the County Board shall
be the final administrative decision for the purposes of review under the
Administrative Review Act, being 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
   (C)   For the purposes of this Code, the following cases are hereby defined
as "Class A zoning cases":
      (1)   Any case involving a petition requesting a special use for one or
more of the following:
         (a)   Adult uses;
         (b)   Solar farms;
         (c)   Wind energy conversion systems.
   (D)   Additionally, the term "Class A zoning case" shall include any
secondary zoning case which is related to a pending Class A zoning case as
defined in (C) above. For the purposes of this division, a secondary zoning
case is "related to" a Class A zoning case when it is sought by the same
petitioner or a related petitioner, at the same time, in connection with the
same project.
   (E)   Any case which is not a Class A zoning case is a "Class B zoning case"
for the purposes of this Code.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-27(a)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.481 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   Notice of the time and place of any public hearing required by this
chapter for zoning amendments, variances, and special uses shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county, not less than 15 days and
not more than 45 days before such hearing; provided that if the notification is
relating to a Class A zoning case, the publication shall occur not less than 30
days and not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (B)   The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The date, time, and place of the hearing;
      (2)   A summary of the proposal under consideration;
      (3)   The particular location of the real estate for which the amendment,
variance, or special use is requested by legal description, property
identification number, street address, and, if no street address, then by
locating such real estate with reference to well known landmark, highway, road,
thoroughfare, or intersection;
      (4)   Whether or not the petitioner or applicant is acting for himself or
herself or in the capacity of agent, alter ego, or representative of a
principal and stating the name and address of the actual and true principal;
      (5)   Where petitioner or applicant is a corporation, and if a
corporation, the correct names and address of all officers and directors, and
of all stockholders and shareholders owning any interest in excess of 20% of
all outstanding stock of such corporation;
      (6)   Whether the petitioner or applicant or his or her principal, if
other than applicant, is a business or entity doing business under an assumed
name, and if so, the name and residence of all true and actual owners of such
business or entity; and
      (7)   Whether the petitioner or applicant is a partnership, joint
venture, syndicate, or an unincorporated voluntary association, or if so, the
names and addresses of all partners, joint venturers, syndicate members, or
members of the unincorporated voluntary association.
   (C)   Within five days of publication, a copy of the published notice shall
be mailed to the applicant. The costs or charges of the publication notice
shall be paid by the petitioner or applicant.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-27(b)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023; Res. LU-23-08,
passed 5-31-2023)
§ 157.482 NOTICE TO ADJOINING PROPERTY OWNERS.
   The Community Development Administrator, as a courtesy, shall notify all
adjoining property owners of a pending application and of the hearing date,
location, and nature of the request before the Zoning Board of Appeals and
other pertinent information as specified in §
157.481. Adjoining property owners shall be identified by information obtained
from the County Supervisor of Assessment's office. Notification shall occur not
less than 15 days and not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing;
provided that notification is relating to a Class A zoning case, the
publication shall occur not less than 30 days and not more than 45 days prior
to the date of the hearing.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-27(c)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023; Res. LU-23-08,
passed 5-31-2023)
§ 157.483 NOTICE TO INTERESTED GOVERNMENTAL BODIES.
   (A)   The Community Development Administrator shall notify the county's Soil
and Water Conservation District, County Health Department, and villages and
municipalities within one and one-half miles of the proposed property, Road
Commissioners, and the County Highway Engineer of pending applications for an
amendment, variance, and special use. Notification shall occur not less than 15
days and not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing; provided that
notification is relating to a Class A zoning case, the publication shall occur
not less than 30 days and not more than 45 days prior to the date of the
hearing.
   (B)   The County Land Use Planner, County Health Department, the county’s
Soil and Water Conservation District, and other interested official bodies, if
they so desire, may provide data by oral testimony and/or written memorandum
regarding their concerns and recommendation at the time of a hearing or the
continuation thereof, and may likewise be subject to cross-examination of
interested parties. Said data may be used as a resource by the Zoning Board of
Appeals for reaching a decision or making a recommendation to the County Board.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-27(d)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023; Res. LU-23-08,
passed 5-31-2023)
§ 157.484 CONDUCT OF A HEARING.
   (A)   Submission of information. Any person may appear at a public hearing
and give testimony or submit written materials, either individually or as a
representative of an organization. The ZBA may exclude information that it
finds to be irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious. The witness
information form, described below, shall inform potential witnesses of how many
copies they are expected to provide of any written materials.
   (B)   Witnesses. Prior to testifying, each witness shall state his/her name
and address, and complete a witness information form. A witness who submits the
form at least 24 hours in advance of the hearing shall be known as a
"participating witness" for purposes of this section. Non-participating
witnesses shall not be allowed to ask questions of the petitioner as described
in (C)(3)(c) below.
   (C)   Evidence. Evidence shall be presented in the following order:
      (1)   The Chairperson shall administer oaths to all persons who which to
testify;
      (2)   The petitioner shall present his or her evidence, including others
who wish to testify on his or her behalf;
      (3)   Witness presentations.
         (a)   Each witness in turn shall present his or her case, as follows,
and shall be known as the "presenting witness" during this process;
         (b)   Each presenting witness may make an opening statement;
         (c)   If the presenting witness is a participating witness, the
presenting witness may then question the petitioner and any of his/her
associated witnesses;
         (d)   The petitioner may then question the presenting witness and any
of his/her associated witnesses, regardless of whether the petitioner was
questioned;
         (e)   The presenting witness may make a closing comment. New evidence
or facts should not be introduced during closing comments.
      (4)   The members of the ZBA and the Land Use Committee may question
anyone who has previously testified;
      (5)   The petitioner may present a rebuttal;
      (6)   The chairperson may, in his/her discretion, allow surrebuttal and
further presentation of evidence by any or all witnesses, if it is reasonably
required to address new facts in the petitioner's rebuttal, or in any
surrebuttal.
      (7)   The petitioner may present closing comments. New evidence or facts
should not be introduced during closing comments.
      (8)   In any case where ten or more witnesses are signed up at the time
of the hearing, the following maximum time limits shall apply, unless modified
by the ZBA at the start of the hearing.
         (a)   Petitioner's presentation - 60 minutes.
         (b)   Participating witness presentations:
            1.   Primary presentation - 30 minutes.
            2.   Presenting witness's questioning of petitioner - 30 minutes.
            3.   Petitioner's questioning of presenting witness - 30 minutes.
            4.   Presenting witness's closing comments - 30 minutes.
         (c)   Non-participating witness presentations - five minutes.
         (d)   Petitioner's rebuttal and closing comments - 60 minutes.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-27(e)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.485 DUTIES OF THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATOR AND LAND USE
PLANNER.
   The Community Development Administrator and Land Use Planner shall present
information concerning pertinent application considerations and the standards
set out in these regulations.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-27(f))
§ 157.486 EXHIBITS.
   All exhibits or written materials used at the public hearing by an
interested party shall be submitted to the Community Development Administrator
and shall be retained for the ZBA’s record. If not so submitted, the record
shall not be considered by the ZBA and shall not become a part of the record.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-27(g)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.487 CONTINUANCE.
   The ZBA may, at its discretion, for good cause shown, grant a continuance in
a case to any interested party who has entered his or her appearance. After one
continuance, request for continuances will be considered only if reasonable
notice in writing has been given to all persons who have previously filed an
appearance in the case.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-27(h))
§ 157.488 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   If any applicant fails to appear before the ZBA for an item on the
agenda for the first time, that item may be continued until the next regularly
scheduled public hearing.
   (B)   If an applicant fails to appear before the ZBA for an item which has
previously been continued, that item may be dismissed by the ZBA.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-27(i))
§ 157.489 RECORD OF HEARING.
   (A)   The Community Development Administrator shall ensure that the
proceedings are recorded by appropriate means.
   (B)   The record of proceedings shall consist of the recording of testimony,
all proceedings, exhibits, and papers submitted in any proceeding with respect
to the matter being considered, and the summary and report of the Community
Development Administrator and Land Use Planner.
   (C)   All summaries and reports of the Community Development Administrator
and Land Use Planner shall be public records, open to inspection at a
reasonable time and upon reasonable notice.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-27(j))
§ 157.490 CONTRACTS OUTSIDE OF THE HEARING.
   If any member of the ZBA receives a substantive communication from any
person outside the hearing concerning a subject matter under consideration by
that body, he or her shall make a statement at the hearing describing the
circumstances and substance of such communication.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-27(k))
§ 157.491 ACTION BY THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the ZBA shall render its decision
within a reasonable time after completion of the public hearing. For
application for amendments and Class A zoning cases, the ZBA shall make report
of its findings to the County Board and in said report the ZBA shall indicate
its recommendation. Such report shall contain a findings of fact specifying,
where applicable, the reason for the ZBA's recommendation of approval or
denial.
   (B)   In applications for variances and Class B special uses, the ZBA shall
make a report indicating its approval or denial of the request. Such report
shall contain a findings of fact, where applicable, the reason for the ZBA's
approval or denial.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-27(l)) (Res. LU-23-02, passed 1-25-2023)
§ 157.492 RESUBMISSION OF DENIED REQUEST.
   Whenever any petition for amendment, variance, or special use or combination
thereof is denied, an application involving the same property shall not be
brought back before the Zoning Board of Appeals again until six months have
passed from the date of the first public hearing, unless the prayer of the
petitioner shall request a substantially different amendment, variance, or
special use.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-27(m))
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATOR
§ 157.505 GENERAL.
   The Community Development Administrator and his or her staff at the county’s
Department of Community Development shall provide technical support and
guidance for action on applications for development approval, and shall perform
such other functions as may be requested by the County Board and the ZBA. The
Community Development Administrator shall coordinate the review of all
applications for development approval by the county’s Department of Community
Development and other county departments.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-28(a))
§ 157.506 CREATION AND APPOINTMENT.
   The Community Development Administrator shall be the department head of the
county’s Department of Community Development and shall be appointed by and
serve at the pleasure of the County Board.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-28(b))
§ 157.507 JURISDICTION, AUTHORITY, AND DUTIES.
   In addition to the jurisdiction, authority, and duties which may be
conferred upon the Community Development Administrator by other ordinances, the
Community Development Administrator shall have the following jurisdiction,
authority, and duties:
   (A)   Act as the enforcing officer of these regulations and make, or cause
to be made, periodic inspections of all work authorized by permits issued in
accordance with these regulations and make, or cause to be made, investigations
of violations of these regulations and cause any such violations to be
corrected;
   (B)   Serve as both the Secretary and the Technical Consultant to the ZBA
and Land Use Committee, and inform such body of all facts and information at
his or her disposal with respect to applications for development approval or
any other matters brought before it;
   (C)   Assist in the preparation and review of the county’s comprehensive
plan, any special area plans, these regulations, and any proposed amendments
thereto;
   (D)   Maintain the official zoning district maps of the county;
   (E)   Maintain development review files and other public records of all
official actions taken by the county’s Department of Community Development with
respect to the administration and enforcement of these regulations;
   (F)   Review all applications for permits for the construction, enlargement,
structural alterations, conversion, or relocation of any building or structure;
   (G)   Review and recommend approval or disapproval of applications for
special use permits, variances, and amendments to these regulations;
   (H)   Issue building permits and certificates of occupancy and inspect, if
necessary, the building for which the permit or certificate applies;
   (I)   Issue written notice to the person responsible for any violation of
these regulations;
   (J)   Take, or cause to be taken, any other action necessary to ensure
compliance with, and prevent the violations of, the provisions of these
regulations;
   (K)   Coordinate all local, regional, state, and federal environmental and
other land development permitting processes affecting development in the
county;
   (L)   Establish such rules of procedure as are necessary for the
administration of his or her responsibilities under these regulations;
   (M)   Whenever requested by the County Board or by his or her own
initiative, with the assistance of other county departments, conduct or cause
to be conducted, surveys, investigations, and studies, and prepare or cause to
be prepared such reports, maps, photographs, charts, and exhibits as may be
requested or desired; and
   (N)   Establish and fulfill any procedures or practices necessary to fulfill
the responsibilities of the Community Development Department.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-28(c))
§ 157.508 ADDITIONAL DUTIES CONCERNING FLOOD INSURANCE STUDIES.
   In addition to those duties and powers set forth in §
157.507, the Community Development Administrator shall have the following
powers and duties in areas designated as “A Zones” by the flood insurance
study:
   (A)   Periodically inspect buildings, structures, and uses of land to
determine compliance with the provisions set forth for floodplain management;
   (B)   Notify, in writing, any person responsible for violating any
provisions set forth for floodplain areas, indicating the nature of the
violation, and ordering action that is necessary to correct such violations;
   (C)   Order a discontinuance of the illegal construction of buildings or
structures below the base flood elevation, as determined by a flood insurance
study and the flood protection elevation;
   (D)   Maintain a current file of all permits, certificates, notices of
violation, discontinuances, or removals for such time as necessary to ensure a
continuance compliance with the provisions of these regulations, and on
request, provide information to any person having proprietary or tenancy
interest in any specific property;
   (E)   Determine damage caused to property and structures as a result of
flooding events. Maintain a current file of all damage caused to structures as
it relates to substantial damage determinations; and
   (F)   Maintain all flood-related information as it relates to the community
ratings system (CRS) and prepare required documentation for CRS cycle visits.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-28(d))
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 157.520 CREATION.
   There is hereby established a Zoning Board of Appeals (hereinafter ZBA).
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-29(a))
§ 157.521 APPOINTMENT, TERMS, RESIDENCY, REMOVAL, AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   The ZBA shall consist of seven members and two alternate members
appointed by the Chairperson of the County Board, with the advice and consent
of the County Board, by resolution.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the County Board shall name the members of the
ZBA, a Chairperson, and in the case of a vacancy, he or she shall name a
successor Chairperson. The officers of the ZBA shall be a Vice Chairperson
named by the ZBA and a Secretary who shall be the Community Development
Administrator.
   (B)   Terms.
      (1)   The ZBA membership shall serve, respectively, for the following
initial terms:
         (a)   One member for one year;
         (b)   One member for two years;
         (c)   One member for three years;
         (d)   One member for four years;
         (e)   Three members for five years; and
         (f)   Thereafter each member of the ZBA shall serve a term of five
years.
      (2)   Alternate members shall serve as members of the ZBA only in the
absence of regular members, with the alternate member who has the greatest
amount of time remaining on his or her term to have priority over the other
alternate member.
   (C)   Residency.
      (1)   All members of the ZBA shall be residents of the county and shall
be residents of separate townships at the time of appointment. Any member who
moves into a township which already has a resident member or any member who
moves out of the county shall cease to be a member of the Zoning Board.
Residency shall be determined at date of initial appointment.
      (2)   Not less than four members of the ZBA, or in the case the total
members reverts to five, not less than three members shall be residents of the
unincorporated areas of the county. This specific requirement shall not apply
to the alternate members of the ZBA.
   (D)   Removal for cause. The County Board shall have the power to remove any
member of the ZBA for cause after a public hearing. Reasonable notice of such
hearing (not less than ten days) shall be given in writing to the member
concerned.
   (E)   Vacancies. In the event of a vacancy caused by the death, removal for
cause, or resignation of a member of the ZBA, a successor shall be named by the
Chairperson of the County Board for the unexpired term, subject to confirmation
by the County Board at its next meeting.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-29(b))
§ 157.522 ZBA; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The ZBA shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To review and analyze all information filed with the Community
Development Administrator in each case prior to all public hearings, and if
deemed necessary, to personally inspect the physical property which is the
subject of the petition;
   (B)   To attend all hearings and deliberative sessions. Those members not
present at the hearing shall not participate in the decision of the case,
unless they have listened to the entire tape, read all transcripts, and have
reviewed the entire case file;
   (C)   To hear, review, and make recommendations to the County Board
concerning amendments to the text of these regulations and the zoning district
map in accordance with the provisions of §§
157.460 through
157.468;
   (D)   To hear, review, and decide on applications concerning special use
permits in accordance with provisions of §§
157.435 through
157.447;
   (E)   To hold hearings, review, and make decisions in regard to applications
for variances in accordance with the provisions in §§
157.355 through
157.363;
   (F)   To hear, review, and decide appeals from administrative decisions made
by the Community Development Administrator or other administrative official
concerning any order, requirement, or determination in accordance with the
provisions of §§
157.615 through
157.621;
   (G)   To hear, review, and decide appeals from the administrative decisions
of the Erosion Control Administrator in accordance with the provisions of §
151.10; and
   (H)   To adopt such rules to govern its proceedings as are necessary for the
administration of its responsibilities, not inconsistent with state law or
these regulations.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-29(c))
§ 157.523 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON.
   The Chairperson of the ZBA, and in his or her absence, the Vice Chairperson,
shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To supervise the affairs of and preside at all meetings of the ZBA;
   (B)   To appoint such committees and subcommittees of the ZBA as may be
necessary to carry out the purposes of the ZBA and to be an ex-officio member
of all such committees; and
   (C)   To administer oaths and compel the attendance of a witness before the
ZBA.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-29(d))
§ 157.524 CONFLICT.
   Any member of the ZBA who has a direct or indirect interest in a matter
before the ZBA, or who lives within 500 feet of any property which is the
subject of ZBA action, shall disclose such fact at the hearing, prior to voting
on the matter. If such member has a direct or indirect financial interest in
such property, he or she shall not sit with the ZBA nor act with the ZBA in
such manner under consideration.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-29(e))
§ 157.525 QUORUM AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   For the sole purpose of taking evidence in scheduled hearings, regular
meetings of the ZBA may be called to order without a quorum being present. No
further business may be transacted, including making recommendations based on
the evidence heard, until a quorum consisting of five members of the ZBA are
present. The Chairperson shall be considered and counted as a member.
   (B)   The concurring vote of at least five members shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirements, decision, or determination of the Community
Development Administrator, or to decide in favor of the applicant in any matter
upon which it is required to pass under these regulations.
   (C)   All meetings of the ZBA shall be open to the public.
   (D)   Regular meetings of the ZBA shall be held once a month at such date
and time that the ZBA determines.
   (E)   Regular meetings may be canceled by the Chairperson of the ZBA when
there are not cases pending. Notification must be given to members not less
than 48 hours prior to the time set for such meeting.
   (F)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson of the ZBA, at his
or her discretion, or upon the request of two or more members of the ZBA,
provided that 48 hours’ notice is given to each member and to the media.
   (G)   In the event that the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the ZBA are
absent during a regular or special meeting, the members present shall select
one of the members present to act as a Chairperson pro tem.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-29(f))
§ 157.526 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   All meetings of the ZBA may proceed as follows:
   (A)   Call meeting to order and declaration of quorum;
   (B)   Announce hearing procedures;
   (C)   Call items on agenda as published;
   (D)   Deliberation of items on agenda;
   (E)   Unfinished business;
   (F)   New business; and
   (G)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-29(g))
§ 157.527 SECRETARY, MINUTES AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Community Development Administrator shall act as the Secretary to
serve the ZBA and shall attend all meetings and hearings of the ZBA.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep minutes of all proceedings of the ZBA, which
minutes shall be a summary of all proceedings before the ZBA, attested to by
the Secretary, and which shall include the vote of each member upon every
question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such facts.
   (C)   The minutes shall be approved by a majority of the members of the ZBA
voting.
   (D)   Every rule, regulation, or amendment, every repeal thereof, and every
order, requirements, decision, or determination of the ZBA shall be filed in
the office of the ZBA at the office of the Community Development Administrator
and shall be a public record.
   (E)   The Secretary shall maintain all records of ZBA meetings, hearings,
and proceedings, shall conduct the official correspondence of the ZBA, and
shall administer the clerical work of the ZBA.
   (F)   All records shall be a public record and the Secretary shall be the
custodian of the files of the ZBA.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-29(h))
§ 157.528 LEGAL CONSULTANT.
   The State’s Attorneys of the county, or his or her designated assistant,
shall be consulted on all legal questions, parliamentary questions, and
interpretations of questions where the powers of the ZBA are not clearly
defined, and shall generally serve as legal counsel to the ZBA.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-29(i))
LAND USE COMMITTEE
§ 157.540 CREATION.
   There is hereby established a Land Use Committee, comprised of members of
the County Board and appointed by the County Board Chairperson, and approved by
the County Board.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-30(a))
§ 157.541 PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the Land Use Committee shall:
   (A)   Serve as the oversight committee for the Department of Community
Development and to handle all matters upon which the county’s zoning ordinance
requires action by a committee of the County Board;
   (B)   Work in cooperation with the Community Development Administrator and
Land Use Planner in reviewing and recommending any necessary changes to the
County Board for zoning, subdivision, manufactured/mobile home, and nuisance
ordinances and resolutions;
   (C)   Review zoning case applications, the report of the ZBA, the
recommendation of the Community Development Administrator and Land Use Planner,
and make a recommendation of approval or denial of the findings of fact and
recommendation by the ZBA to the County Board. The Land Use Committee may also
recommend to the County Board to table zoning cases or refer back to the ZBA
for further consideration; and
   (D)   Work in cooperation with the Land Use Planner and appropriate agencies
by recommending for adoption, or amendments to, the long range comprehensive
plan or portion thereof for the use of land, for protection of the environment,
and to coordinate economic development.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-30(b))
BUILDING PERMIT
§ 157.555 GENERAL REQUIREMENT.
    No building or structure shall be constructed, erected, enlarged,
structurally altered, extended, converted, or relocated unless a building
permit has first been issued by the Community Development Administrator.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(a)) (Ord. LU-19-11, passed 10-30-2019) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.556 BASIS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   A building permit shall only be issued after the Community Development
Administrator determines that the proposed development is in compliance with
all requirements of this chapter and all other applicable regulations of the
county, including, but not limited to, the Environmental Barriers Act (410 ILCS
15/1 et seq., now in effect or as hereinafter amended), the building and
property maintenance code, subdivision, erosion control, and floodplain
regulations.
   (B)   In addition, a building permit shall only be issued for §
157.557(A), (B), (D), (E), (G), and (I) after the Community Development
Administrator determines that the parcel of land involved was divided in
compliance with the state’s Plat Act, 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq., now in effect
or as hereafter amended.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(b))
§ 157.557 WHEN PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A building permit shall be obtained from the Community Development
Administrator by the owner, lessee, or other person having the right to
possession, or his or her authorized agent, of any property or structure before
commencing:
   (A)   The construction, erection, or development of any building or
structure, either by itself or in addition to another use, including buildings
or structures to be used for agricultural purposes;
   (B)   To move or relocate any building or structure or part thereof;
   (C)   The expansion, change, or re-establishment of any non-conforming use,
including the change from one use to another;
   (D)   The construction of a swimming pool;
   (E)   The reconstruction or structural alteration of any building or
structure or part thereof;
   (F)   The demolition of any building or structure, including buildings or
structures to be used for agricultural purposes;
   (G)   The alteration of the interior of any residential, institutional,
commercial, industrial, or multi- family structure;
   (H)   The interior alteration of any structure located in the floodplain;
   (I)   The construction of a fence, other than ornamental (as defined in §
157.049) or agricultural fences;
   (J)   Installation of new electrical service or equipment and repairs to or
replacement of existing electrical systems;
   (K)   Installation or alteration of any heating, ventilation, air
conditioning, or other mechanical system; and/or
   (L)   Installation or alteration of any plumbing system.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(c))
§ 157.558 EXEMPTIONS.
   No building permit shall be required for the following:
   (A)   Routine maintenance or repair of buildings, structures, or equipment
such as siding, veneering, repainting, or re-roofing;
   (B)   The construction of a portable swimming pool if the capacity of such
pool is under 24 inches in depth or has a surface area less than 125 square
feet;
   (C)   Any accessory structure that is less than 25 square feet. All such
structures are required to meet the setback requirements for the district in
which they are located, unless otherwise exempted by these regulations;
   (D)   Fences used for agricultural purposes and operations; and
   (E)   Ornamental fencing consisting of decorative posts, lattices, arbors,
or trellises.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(d))
§ 157.559 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a building permit shall be filed in the office of
the Community Development Administrator on forms prescribed by the Community
Development Administrator, along with the fees for building permits, plan
review, and inspections as prescribed in §
154.011, and other pertinent information.
   (B)   Such application shall contain and be accompanied with the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner, the name and address of the
applicant, and the name and address of the contractor if known;
      (2)   Property identification number and legal description of the
property;
      (3)   The estimated cost;
      (4)   A description of the uses to be established or expanded;
      (5)   A site plan drawn to scale containing the following:
         (a)   Actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
         (b)   Size, shape, and location of the use to be established or the
structure to be constructed;
         (c)   Size, shape, and location of all existing buildings and uses on
the lot;
         (d)   Auto parking area; and
         (e)   Lot area to be used.
      (6)   An approved ingress and egress permit shall be obtained from the
appropriate state, county, or township responsible for road jurisdiction when
any such structure or use requires installation of a new ingress and egress;
      (7)   Water supply and sewage disposal facilities, including a true and
correct copy of any permit required by the county’s or state’s Health
Department approving such facilities;
      (8)   For all proposed commercial, industrial, and multi-family projects
with three or more units, and institutional projects, three full sets of
architecturally sealed building plans and specifications shall be submitted and
approved by the Community Development Administrator prior to issuance of a
building permit. One set of digital building plans and specifications may be
required upon the Community Development Administrator’s request;
      (9)   All plans for proposed commercial, industrial, multi-family, and
institutional projects shall be submitted to, and approved in writing by, the
appropriate fire protection district prior to issuance of a building permit in
all fire protection districts that have adopted a fire protection code and that
have advised the Community Development Administrator that a plan review is
required;
      (10)   All plans for commercial, industrial, multi-family, and
institutional projects shall also show:
         (a)   Ingress and egress;
         (b)   Off-street loading;
         (c)   Exterior lighting; and
         (d)   Location of signage.
      (11)   If the permit is for a single-family or two-family dwelling,
additions to dwellings, or for a residential accessory structures and additions
to, three full sets of building plans and specifications with square footage
listed.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(e))
§ 157.560 ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT.
   A building permit shall be issued when the Community Development
Administrator determines that an application for a building or structure
conforms to the applicable regulations and standards of the chapter, and all
required permits and approvals have been obtained, and all relevant fees have
been paid.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(f))
§ 157.561 DENIAL OF A BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Community Development Administrator shall deny the application for a
building or structure if the proposed construction or use does not meet the
applicable provisions by this chapter.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(g))
§ 157.562 FEES.
   The applicant shall pay all costs associated with the application for a
building permit pursuant to §
154.011 for all commercial, industrial, institutional, and multi-family
projects as defined therein. The fee shall be paid to the Community Development
Department at the time of filing the application.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(h))
§ 157.563 CONSPICUOUS POSTING.
   The building permit posting card issued by the Community Development
Administrator shall be conspicuously posted by the applicant on the property
for which it was obtained in the manner prescribed by the Community Development
Administrator. The building permit posting card shall remain posted until such
time as a permanent certificate of occupancy pursuant to §§
157.585 through
157.589 has been issued by the Community Development Administrator.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(i))
§ 157.564 CHANGES TO APPROVED PERMITS.
   (A)   After a building permit has been issued, no changes or deviations from
the terms of the permit or the application and accompanying plans,
specifications, and site plan shall be made without specific written approval
of such changes or deviations by the Community Development Administrator.
   (B)   An amendment to a building permit which requires payment of an
additional fee, either because of an increase in the size of the buildings or a
change in the scope of the work, shall not be approved until the applicant has
paid the additional fees and the amendment has been reviewed and approved for
compliance with the county’s regulations.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(j))
§ 157.565 EXPIRATION OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   A building permit, with exception of a demolition permit, for which
work approved by the permit has not commenced, as shown on the building permit,
within 180 days after the date of issuance, shall expire and become null and
void, unless an extension has been obtained in writing by the Community
Development Administrator. The Community Development Administrator may grant
only one extension for an additional 90-day period of time. Such extension
shall be obtained by the applicant no later than ten working days following
expiration.
   (B)   (1)   A building permit shall immediately expire if the work is not
completed within two years from the date of issuance. A written notice thereof
shall be given to the applicant together with notice that no further work shall
proceed until a new permit shall have been issued.
      (2)   The Community Development Administrator may grant only one renewal
of a building permit not to exceed a two-year period. A building permit that
has been renewed and is not completed within the additional two years shall be
subject to enforcement procedures found in §
157.999(C) and (D).
   (C)   (1)   Building permits for the purpose of demolition of a single-
family residential principal or accessory structure shall become null and void
unless the work approved by the permit has commenced within 30 days after the
date of issuance, as shown on the building permit, unless an extension has been
obtained in writing by the Community Development Administrator.
      (2)   The Community Development Administrator may grant only one
extension for an additional 30-day period of time. The permit shall immediately
expire if the work is not completed within 90 days, unless an extension has
been obtained in writing from the Community Development Administrator. The
Administrator may only grant one extension for an additional 90-day period of
time.
      (3)   No work authorized by any permit which has expired shall thereafter
be performed until a new permit has been issued. The Community Development
Administrator shall only grant one renewal of a demolition permit.
   (D)   (1)   Building permits for the purpose of demolition of principal and
accessory commercial, industrial, institutional, multi-family, or agricultural
structures shall become null and void unless the work approved by the permit is
commenced within ten days after the date of issuance, as shown on the building
permit, unless an extension has been obtained in writing by the Community
Development Administrator.
      (2)   The Community Development Administrator may grant only one
extension for an additional ten-day period of time. The permit shall
immediately expire if the work is not completed within 90 days, unless an
extension has been obtained in writing from the Community Development
Administrator. The Administrator may only grant one extension for an additional
90-day period of time.
      (3)   No work authorized by any permit that has expired shall thereafter
be performed until a new permit has been issued. The Community Development
Administrator shall only grant one renewal of a demolition permit.
   (E)   Renewal of a building permit will require re-payment of the original
fee.
   (F)   There shall be a maximum of two permits issued for the same
construction project for a single structure. Construction not completed by the
expiration of the second permit shall be considered a violation of this section
and the Community Development Administrator shall issue to the applicant a
notice of violation and notice to appear before the County Hearing Officer.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(k))
§ 157.566 REVOCATION OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   The Community Development Administrator has the authority to revoke
and require the return of any building permit in the following instances:
      (1)   Any material departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications;
      (2)   Refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of these
regulations or any other applicable county regulations including, but not
limited to, subdivision, erosion control, and floodplain regulations;
      (3)   False statements or misrepresentations made in securing such
permit; and
      (4)   Refusal to comply with other applicable, state, county, or federal
laws.
   (B)   When a building permit has been determined revoked, the Community
Development Administrator may notify the permit holder in writing stating the
reasons for revocation.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(l))
§ 157.567 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   When any building or structure is being constructed, either without a
building permit or in violation of a properly issued building permit, the
Community Development Administrator or his or her designee is hereby authorized
to issue a stop work order on the premises where the violation is taking place.
   (B)   The Community Development Administrator shall assess a fee for a stop
work order as set forth in as prescribed in §
154.011.
      (1)   The stop work order shall cite the violated section(s) of this
chapter and shall be presented to the owner of the property, the owner’s agent,
or to the person doing the work.
      (2)   Compliance with the order shall be the responsibility of the owner
of record, the current occupant, and the person performing the work upon the
property.
      (3)   After a stop work order has been posted pursuant to this section by
the Community Development Administrator or his or her duly authorized
representative, it shall be unlawful for any person to remove or deface the
posted stop work order. Removal of or defacement of the posted stop work order
shall be punishable as a petty offense as set forth in 55 ILCS 5/5-12017.
      (4)   Any person who shall continue to work in, on or about the building
or structure shall be considered as having violated this provision and shall be
subject to the provisions of Article 36.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(m)) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.568 ENTRY AND INSPECTION OF LAND AND BUILDINGS.
   The Community Development Administrator or their authorized representative
(s) are hereby authorized in the performance of their function to enter upon
any land in the unincorporated area of the county for the purpose of making
inspections, examinations, or to place notices, signs, or placards to
effectuate the purpose and provisions of this chapter. The above authorized
persons shall be required to present credentials upon demand when entering upon
any land or structure for the purpose of this section.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(n))
§ 157.569 FEE FOR FAILURE TO OBTAIN BUILDING PERMIT PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   Failure or refusal to obtain a building permit prior to the construction,
erection, enlargement, alteration, extension, conversion, or relocation of any
structure or use of land for which a permit is required shall result in a
doubling of the fee required when application of the permit is made.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(o))
§ 157.570 ENFORCEMENT.
   Failure to obtain a permit after notification shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter and punishable as provided in §
157.999(C) and (D).
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-31(p))
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
§ 157.585 REQUIREMENT OF CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   The following provisions shall apply to residential and non-residential
principal and accessory structures. No building or structure shall be occupied
or used until a certificate of occupancy is issued by the Community Development
Administrator, after a determination that the building or structure is in
accordance with the provisions of any special use permit, plat approval,
building permit, and all regulations of this chapter. A temporary certificate
of occupancy may be issued in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-32(a))
§ 157.586 WHEN CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   A certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the Community Development
Administrator for either of the following after compliance with all provisions
of these regulations has been determined:
   (A)   Occupancy and use of a building hereafter erected, reconstructed,
enlarged, or moved; and
   (B)   Occupancy or change in use of a building.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-32(b))
§ 157.587 PROCEDURES FOR ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   The Community Development Administrator shall inspect the property
that is the subject of a building permit, a certificate of occupancy, or a
temporary certificate of occupancy to determine whether the use of the property
and structures comply in all other respects with the pertinent provisions of
these regulations, applicable sections of the County Code, the state’s
Environmental Barriers Act, being 410 ILCS 15/1 et seq. (if applicable), and
the state’s Department of Public Health Code (if applicable).
   (B)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a change-in-use until
the premises have been inspected and such change is certified by the Community
Development Administrator to be in compliance with all applicable regulations
of the zoning district in which it is located.
   (C)   If the Community Development Administrator determines, after
inspection, that a structure is not in compliance with applicable standards set
for in this section, the established enforcement process shall be initiated
within ten working days after the inspection to bring the applicant into
compliance.
   (D)   If the Community Development Administrator determines, after
inspection, that the structure is in compliance with applicable standards set
forth in this section, and if all relevant fees have been paid, a certificate
of occupancy shall be issued within ten working days after the final
inspection.
   (E)   The construction authorized by a permit for new construction,
including additions or alterations of existing structures, shall be in
compliance when construction is complete and all building supplies and
materials have been removed from the property. Failure to remove all materials
leftover from the building’s construction shall be considered a violation, and
the Community Development Administrator shall issue to the applicant a notice
of violation and notice to appear before the County Adjudication Hearing
Officer.
   (F)   A demolition authorized by a permit for the demolition of a building
or structure shall be in compliance when all remnants of the building or
structure have been removed from the property. The use of the building’s
materials to fill in the excavated area is strictly prohibited. Failure to
remove all remnants of the building or structure within the life of the permit
shall be considered a violation, and the Community Development Administrator
shall issue to the applicant a notice of violation and notice to appear before
the County Adjudication Hearing Officer.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-32(c))
§ 157.588 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   A temporary certificate of compliance may be issued by the Community
Development Administrator for a period not to exceed 60 days for a building or
structure, or part thereof, prior to the completion of the entire building or
structure.
   (B)   A temporary certificate may state the nature of the incomplete work
and the time period within which the work must be completed. The fee for a
temporary certificate shall be pursuant to §
157.600.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-32(d))
§ 157.589 FAILURE TO OBTAIN CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Failure to obtain a certificate of occupancy prior to occupancy or use of a
structure shall result in the issuance of a notice of violation and notice to
appear to the applicant before the County Adjudication Hearing Officer, which
could result in a fines of $50 per day for occupancy or use of said structure.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-32(e))
FEE SCHEDULE
§ 157.600 FEES CHARGED FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   The following fees shall be charged for the processing of applications
and the issuance of zoning permits, and shall be collected by the Community
Development Administrator, who shall be accountable to the county for such
fees.
   (B)   Fees:
      (1)    Home occupations: $200;
      (2)   Temporary use: $200;
      (3)   Change-in-use of a building or land where no construction is
involved:
         (a)   Residential and agriculture use: $100; and
         (b)   Commercial/industrial: $200.
      (4)   Temporary compliance certificate: $75.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-33(a)) (Ord. LU-18-12, passed 8-29-2018)
§ 157.601 FEES CHARGED FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   The following fees shall be charged for processing zoning applications which
require a public hearing, and shall be collected by the Community Development
Administrator, who shall be accountable to the county for such fees.
Type of Application Fee
Type of Application                                                      Fee
Appeals:                                                                $250
                                    Less than two acres                  $350
                                    Two or more acres but less than 15   $450
                                    acres
                                    15 or more acres but less than 25    $550
                                    acres
Special uses:                       25 or more acres but less than 80    $600
                                    acres
                                    80 or more acres but less than 101   $650
                                    acres
                                    With an additional $7 per acre more
                                    than 100 acres
                                    Less than two acres                  $450
                                    Two or more acres but less than 15   $550
                                    acres
                                    15 or more acres but less than 25    $650
                                    acres
Rezonings:                          25 or more acres but less than 80    $750
                                    acres
                                    80 or more acres but less than 101   $850
                                    acres
                                    With an additional $7 per acre more
                                    than 100 acres
Variances:                                                              $300
Administrative variances (by
Community Development Administrator                                     $100
only):
Special use mobile homes:                                               $350
Special use chickens/fowl:          Resident or developer                $300
Text Amendments                     Community Development Administrator, $0
                                    Committee or Board member
                                    
 
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-33(b)) (Ord. LU-18-06, passed 6-27-2018; Ord. LU-18-12,
passed 8-29-2018; Res. LU-22-07, passed 8-31-2022)
§ 157.602 REFUNDS.
   There shall be no refund on any building permit or zoning application fees.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-33(c))
§ 157.603 EXEMPTIONS.
   No fees shall be charged for permits for buildings intended to be used for
agricultural purposes or for accessory buildings located on an operating farm.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-33(d))
APPEALS
§ 157.615 PURPOSE.
   The ZBA is hereby authorized to hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
that there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made
by the Community Development Administrator or other administrative official in
the enforcement of these regulations. An appeal may be initiated by any person
aggrieved by any decision of the Community Development Administrator.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-34(a))
§ 157.616 NOTICE OF APPEAL.
   A notice of appeal authorized under the provisions of this section shall be
filed with the Community Development Administrator and ZBA within 35 days from
the date of the challenged administrative action. The Community Development
Administrator shall transmit to the ZBA a complete file constituting the record
on appeal.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-34(b))
§ 157.617 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   When an appeal is filed, all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from shall be stayed, unless the Community Development Administrator
certifies to the ZBA that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay
would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall
not be stayed other than by a restraining order granted by the ZBA or by a
court of record on application, on notice to the Community Development
Administrator, and on due cause shown.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-34(c))
§ 157.618 REVIEW AND PUBLIC HEARING.
   The ZBA shall review the notice of appeal and shall give notice and conduct
a public hearing on the appeal in accordance with the requirements of §
157.481.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-34(d))
§ 157.619 STANDARDS AND DECISION BY ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   In evaluating the merits of the appeal, the ZBA shall consider factors that
may include the consistency with the terms of these regulations, the
implications of setting any precedent, and the availability of other
alternatives for the applicant. The ZBA shall, in whole or in part, grant the
appeal, grant the appeal subject to the specified conditions, or deny the
appeal, and to that end, shall have all the powers of the Community Development
Administrator.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-34(e))
§ 157.620 FEES.
   The applicant shall be required to pay a fee at the time of filing a notice
of appeal and all required publication costs. The publication cost shall be
paid prior to any final disposition of the request by the ZBA.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-34(f))
§ 157.621 APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   All final administrative decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the Administrative
Review Law (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.) and all amendments and modifications
thereof, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto. The term “administrative
decision” is defined as in § 3-101 of the Code of Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/
3-101).
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-34(g))
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 157.635 DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   Within the districts established by this chapter or by amendments that
may later be adopted, there may exist lots, premises, structures, and uses
which were lawful before this chapter, or by amendment thereto, was effective,
but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the provisions of
this chapter or future amendment.
   (B)   These are commonly known as non-conforming uses, structures, and the
like, and are herein referred to under the general term NON-CONFORMITIES.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-35(a))
§ 157.636 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   (A)   Under the law non-conformities are permitted to be continued, subject
to certain conditions and restrictions. It is the intent of this subchapter to
permit these non-conformities to continue until they are removed (except as
otherwise herein provided), but not to encourage their survival. Such non-
conformities are declared by this subchapter to be incompatible with the
permitted structures and uses of land and structures in the district involved.
   (B)   It is further the intent of this subchapter that such non-conformities
shall not be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended except as provided for
herein, not to be used as grounds for additional other structures or uses
prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-35(b))
§ 157.637 ENLARGEMENT, EXPANSION, AND EXTENSION PROHIBITED.
   A non-conforming use of land, premises, or structure shall not be enlarged
upon, expanded, or extended after the effective date of this chapter by the
attachment of a structure, premise, or land, or additional signs intended to be
seen off the premises or land, or by addition of other uses of a nature which
would be prohibited in the district involved.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-35(c)) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.638 WHEN RIGHTS OF CONFORMING USE OR STRUCTURE GRANTED.
   A non-conforming use or a non-conforming structure which is non-conforming
only because of failure to provide off-street parking spaces, loading berths,
or setbacks shall have all the rights of a conforming use or structure.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-35(d))
§ 157.639 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, except
the A-1, A-2, and Conservation Districts, notwithstanding limitations imposed
by other provisions of this chapter, a single- family dwelling and customary
accessory building may be erected on any lot which is a lot of record prior to
the effective date of this chapter. This provision shall apply even though such
lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are
generally applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions and other
requirements not involving area or width, or both, of the lots shall conform to
the regulations hereinafter provided.
   (B)   In the A-1, A-2, and Conservation Districts, notwithstanding
limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a single-family
dwelling and customary accessory building may be erected on any lot which was a
lot of record prior to March 16, 1978. This provision shall apply even though
such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are
generally applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions and other
requirements not involving area or width, or both, of the lots shall conform to
the regulations hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-35(e))
§ 157.640 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Where, on the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, a
lawful use of land exists that is no longer permissible under the regulations
and standards of this chapter, as adopted or amended, such use may be continued
so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No such non-conforming use of land shall be enlarged, increased, or
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied on the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   No such non-conforming use of land shall be moved in whole or in part
to any other portion of the lot or tract of land occupied on the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (C)   Any non-conforming use of a building, structure, or land which is
abandoned for a period of one year or more shall not be continued again, and
any future use thereof shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-35(f))
§ 157.641 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where, on the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, a
lawful structure exists that could not be built under the regulations and
standards of this chapter, as adopted or amended, by reasons of restrictions on
lot area, lot coverage, floor area ratio, height, yards, spacing between
buildings, or other characteristics of the structure or its location on the
lot, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful
subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases
its non-conformity. Such a structure, non-conforming to its setbacks or one or
more yards, may be enlarged or altered, provided the addition encroaches no
further into the required setbacks or yard. Any further encroachment beyond
this limitation will require that a petition for a variance be filed and
approved in accordance with §§
157.415 through
157.421.
   (B)   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent or more
than 50% of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Should any such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations and standards for
the district in which it is located after it is moved.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-35(g))
§ 157.642 NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES.
   Where, on the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, a
lawful use of a structure or of a premises exists that is no longer permissible
under the regulations and standards of this chapter, as adopted or amended,
such use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions.
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or altered, except in changing the use of
such structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any part of the
building or structure which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use
at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use
shall be extended to occupy land outside of such structure.
   (C)   Any structure or any premises in or on which a non-conforming use is
superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the regulations and
standards of the district in which such structure or premises is located, and
the non-conforming use shall not be resumed.
   (D)   When non-conforming use of a building, structure, or land which is
abandoned for a period of one year or more, it shall not be continued again,
and any future use thereof shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (E)   Where non-conforming use status applied to a premise, removal or
destruction of the structure shall eliminate the non-conforming use status of
the land, except as it may qualify as a non-conforming lot of record.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-35(h))
§ 157.643 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   On any structure devoted in whole or in part to any non-conforming use
or which itself is non-conforming, work may be done in any period of 12
consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of non-
bearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, to an extent not to exceed 10% of
the then current replacement value of the structure, provided that the volume
of such building or the size of such structure as it existed at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter shall not be increased.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any structure or part thereof
declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public
safety, upon order of such official.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-35(i))
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any other means or methods of enforcement of this
chapter by public officers or the county, any person who violates any term of
§§
157.375 through
157.384 shall be guilty of a petty offense punishable by a fine not to exceed
$500, with each week the violation remains uncorrected constituting a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-22(k))
   (B)   (1)   Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter
shall be considered a petty offense and any person, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each week the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part
thereof, who commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violations
may be found guilty of a separate offense and subject to the penalties in
division (B)(1) above.
      (3)   The county may also take other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-36(a))
   (C)   (1)   Any building or structure which is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure, or land is
used is in violation of this chapter, the proper authorities of the county, may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings in the circuit court to prevent
such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, conversion, maintenance,
or use to restrain, correct, or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy
of said building, structure, or land or to prevent any illegal act, conduct,
business, or use in or about such premises.
      (2)   Any costs or expenses reasonably incurred by the county pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter shall be a debt to the county by the owner,
tenant, or persons in control of a premises upon which such violation existed,
and shall constitute a lien on such property.
(Prior Code, 7 TCC 1-36(b))
CHAPTER 158: AGRICULTURAL AREAS CONSERVATION AND PROTECTIONS
Section
   
158.01   Title
   
158.02   Definitions
   
158.03   County Appointing Authority
   
158.04   Duties of County Appointing Authority
   
158.05   Agricultural Areas Committee
   
158.06   Duties and authority of Agricultural Areas Committee
   
158.07   Proposal for creation of agricultural area
   
158.08   Duties of County Zoning Administrator
   
158.09   Application fees
   
158.10   Applicable law
§ 158.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as “Agricultural Areas Conservation and
Protection”.
§ 158.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them
through general use as to those terms specifically in Sections 1003.01 through
1003.08 of the Agricultural Areas Conservation and Protection Act, and as to
those terms, the definitions provided herein shall control.
§ 158.03 COUNTY APPOINTING AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby created a County Appointing Authority consisting of the
County Board Chairperson, the County Agricultural Extension Advisor and the
Chairperson of the County Soil and Water Conservation District.
§ 158.04 DUTIES OF COUNTY APPOINTING AUTHORITY.
   It is the duty of the County Appointing Authority to appoint persons to
serve on the County Agricultural Areas Committee and to perform such other
duties as are prescribed by law.
§ 158.05 AGRICULTURAL AREAS COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby created an Agricultural Areas Committee which shall consist
of four active farmers, no more than two of whom shall be of the same major
political party and a member of the County Board, all of whom shall be
appointed by the County Appointing Authority.
§ 158.06 DUTIES AND AUTHORITY OF AGRICULTURAL AREAS COMMITTEE.
   The County Agricultural Areas Committee shall perform such duties and be
vested with such authority as is prescribed by law.
§ 158.07 PROPOSAL FOR CREATION OF AGRICULTURAL AREA.
   Any owner or owners may submit a proposal for the creation of an
agricultural area within the county. Such proposal, not to apply to less than
500 acres, shall be submitted to the County Zoning Administrator, and shall
include a complete and correct legal description of the proposed area,
including the boundaries thereof, as well as any other information requested by
the County Zoning Administrator.
§ 158.08 DUTIES OF COUNTY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   Upon receipt of a proposal for creation of, modification of, petition for
withdrawal or dissolution of an agricultural area, it shall be the duty of the
County Zoning Administrator to perform the following acts:
   (A)   Collect and transmit to the County Treasurer the appropriate
application fee as provided herein;
   (B)   Cause to be provided and published such notice as is required by law
upon the receipt of such proposal or petition;
   (C)   Cause to be transmitted to the Tri-County Regional Planning
Commission, a copy of any required notice, proposal or petition;
   (D)   Receive and review any proposals for modifications of a proposed
agricultural area which may be submitted;
   (E)   Refer any proposal for a proposed agricultural area, any proposed
modifications and any petition for withdrawal or dissolution to the County
Agricultural Areas Committee as provided by law;
   (F)   Cause to be provided and published such notice as required by law
prior to the holding of a public hearing by the Agricultural Areas Committee
for the purpose of acting upon any such proposal or petition;
   (G)   Supply to any affected municipality, township, state, or federal
agency, adjacent property owner, and persons proposing an agricultural area the
time, date and place of the public hearing/hearings;
   (H)   Upon the creation of an agricultural area, file the description
thereof with the County Clerk and the County Recorder of Deeds; and
   (I)   Maintain accurate records as to the dates of creation of agricultural
areas and timely notify the County Board in order that the Board may conduct
any review as is required by law.
§ 158.09 APPLICATION FEES.
   All persons, partnerships, corporations, associations, and any and all other
entities submitting proposals for the creation of, modification to, petitions
for withdrawal from, or dissolutions of an agricultural area shall submit
therewith an application fee in an amount equal to $.05 per acre with a minimum
fee of $5 for lands to be included in, added to, withdrawn from or dissolved as
an agricultural area. The fee so submitted shall be nonrefundable without
regard to the action taken upon any such proposal or petition.
§ 158.10 APPLICABLE LAW.
   The provisions contained in this chapter are in addition to any other state
law which may apply to agricultural areas, and as to any direct conflict
between the provisions contained in this chapter and state law, state law shall
apply.
CHAPTER 159: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
159.01   Purpose
   
159.02   Types of cannabis establishments
   
159.03   Standards for a cannabis business establishment
§ 159.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to provide reasonable
regulations regarding the cultivation, dispensing, infusing, processing and
transporting of adult-use cannabis. Such facilities where allowed, shall comply
with all the regulations provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A.
101-0027) as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
hereunder, and the regulations provided below. In the event that the Act is
amended, the more restrictive of the state or local regulations shall apply.
(Ord. LU-20-03, passed 2-26-2020)
§ 159.02 TYPES OF CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Adult-use cannabis craft growers are permitted as a special use in the
A-1 Agriculture Preservation, A-2 Agriculture District, C-2 General Commercial,
I-1 Light Industrial and I-2 Heavy Industrial zoning districts and shall meet
the requirements set forth in §
159.03 Standards for a Cannabis Business Establishment.
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation centers are permitted as a special use
in the A-1 Agriculture Preservation, A-2 Agriculture District, C-2 General
Commercial, I-1 Light Industrial and I-2 Heavy Industrial zoning districts and
shall meet the requirements set forth in §
159.03 Standards for a Cannabis Business Establishment.
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations are permitted as a special
use in the C-2 General Commercial, I-1 Light Industrial and I-2 Heavy
Industrial zoning districts and shall meet the requirements set forth in §
159.03 Standards for a Cannabis Business Establishment.
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organizations or infusers are permitted as
a special use in the C-2 General Commercial, I-1 Light Industrial and I-2 Heavy
Industrial zoning districts and shall meet the requirements set forth in §
159.03 Standards for a Cannabis Business Establishment.
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis processing organizations, or processors are
permitted as a special use in the C-2 General Commercial, I-1 Light Industrial
and I-2 Heavy Industrial zoning districts and shall meet the requirements set
forth in §
159.03 Standards for a Cannabis Business Establishment.
   (F)   Adult-use cannabis transportation organizations or transporters, are
permitted as a special use in the C-2 General Commercial, I-1 Light Industrial
and I-2 Heavy Industrial zoning districts and shall meet the requirements set
forth in §
159.03 Standards for a Cannabis Business Establishment.
(Ord. LU-20-03, passed 2-26-2020)
§ 159.03 STANDARDS FOR A CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A) Setbacks.
      (1)   All cannabis business establishments, excluding perimeter fencing
shall comply with the road setbacks and side and rear setbacks established in
the underlying zoning district.
      (2)   The horizontal separation distance between any cannabis business
establishments shall be 1,500 feet from the property line of a pre-existing
cannabis business establishment.
         Exception: A craft grower may share premises with a processing
organization or a dispensing organization, or both, provided that they meet all
the regulations provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   (B)   Minimum submittal requirements for a special use permit.
      (1)   Application. Applicants shall provide a signed statement with their
special use application certifying, at a minimum, that the applicant has actual
notice that, notwithstanding any state law:
         (a)   Cannabis is a prohibited Schedule 1 controlled substance under
federal law;
         (b)   The state permits participation in the Cannabis Regulations and
Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027) only to the extent provided by the strict requirements
of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), and related
administrative rules (“Act”);
         (c)   Any activity not sanctioned by the Act may be a violation of
state law;
         (d)   Cultivating, distributing, or possessing cannabis in any
capacity, except through a federal approved research program, is a violation of
federal law;
         (e)   Use of adult use cannabis, in tandem with other conduct, may be
a violation of state or federal law;
         (f)   Use of adult use cannabis may affect an individual’s ability to
receive federal or state licensure in other areas;
         (g)   The county’s approval of a special use or building permit does
not in any manner authorize, support, or endorse the violation of federal or
state law; and
         (h)   Applicants shall indemnify, hold harmless, and defend the county
for any and all civil or criminal penalties relating to participation in the
program, including, but not limited to, approval of any special use or building
permit(s) by the county.
      (2)   Security. The proposed security plan to protect the premises,
purchases, and employees shall be included as part of the application. The
permittee shall demonstrate how they will monitor both patron and employee
conduct on the business premises and within the parking areas under their
control to ensure behavior does not adversely affect or detract from the
quality of life for adjoining residents, property owners, and businesses.
      (3)   Site design. A proposed site plan for the property on which the
adult-use cannabis business establishments organization facility will be
located shall identify co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square
footage, security installations, ingress and egress access point and internal
site circulation.
(Ord. LU-20-03, passed 2-26-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ENTERPRISE ZONE
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res No. Date Passed Description
Res. -       9-25-1985   Franchise agreement with cable provider
Ord. -       4-11-1990   Franchise agreement with cable provider
Res. -       1-28-2009   Agreement with the Economic Development Council for
                         Central Illinois Inc.
 
TABLE II: ENTERPRISE ZONE
 
Ord./Res No.   Date Passed Description
Ord. E-14-108  11-19-2014  Enterprise zone located in the northern part of
                           county
Ord. E-14-109  11-19-2014  Enterprise zone located in the southern part of the
                           county
Ord. 14-01a-EZ 6-29-2016   Enterprise zone regulations
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                      Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.02                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.03                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.04                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.05                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.10                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.12                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                    10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                       10.02
5 ILCS 110/1 et seq.              32.102
                                  32.153 ,
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.              33.04,
                                  33.09
5 ILCS 120/1.01 et seq.           33.02
                                  32.155,
                                  34.34,
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.              154.116,
                                  95.04,
                                  98.10
5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq.          10.02
5 ILCS 430                        32.032
5 ILCS 430/5-5 et seq.            32.032
5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq.          32.030
5 ILCS 430/10-10                  32.033,
                                  32.034
5 ILCS 430/70-5                   32.030
5 ILCS 430/70-20                  32.031
10 ILCS 5/25-10                   33.02
10 ILCS 5/25-11                   33.02
20 ILCS 2645/1 et seq.            150.05
20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.            32.001,
                                  32.003
20 ILCS 3305/10(I)                32.002
35 ILCS 610/1 et seq.             157.005
35 ILCS 615/1 et seq.             157.005
35 ILCS 620/1 et seq.             157.005
50 ILCS 510/0.01 et seq.          31.04
50 ILCS 750                       32.045,
                                  32.047
50 ILCS 750/15.3                  32.049 
50 ILCS 750/15.4                  32.048
55 ILCS 5/3-6017                  30.10
55 ILCS 5/3-8001 et seq.          32.104
55 ILCS 5/5-41                    34.33
55 ILCS 5/5-1015                  30.10
55 ILCS 5/5-1022                  31.02
55 ILCS 5/5-1041                  152.01
55 ILCS 5/5-1063                  152.01,
                                  154.002
55 ILCS 5/5-1092                  93.01
55 ILCS 5/5-1121                  154.056
55 ILCS 5/5-8002                  91.49
55 ILCS 5/5-12001 et seq.         153.21
55 ILCS 5/5 12017                 157.567
55 ILCS 5/5-12020(c)              153.04,
                                  156.06
55 ILCS 5/5 41020                 93.03
55 ILCS 5/5-25001 through 5/25025 32.066
55 ILCS 5/5-41005 to 5/5-41060    34.06
55 ILCS 5/5-41020(c)              34.24
55 ILCS 5/5-41025(a)              34.21
55 ILCS 5/5-41035                 34.25
55 ILCS 5/5-12001                 157.287
55 ILCS 5/5-12001 et seq.         157.001,
                                  157.356
55 ILCS 5/5-12001.1               157.357
55 ILCS 5/51 2001                 157.005
55 ILCS 105/0.01 et seq.          32.015
55 ILCS 105/3                     32.016
55 ILCS 105/4                     32.017
65 ILCS 5                         10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                   10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                   10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1                 10.99
210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.            157.377
220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.          157.005,
                                  157.357
                                  94.26,
225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.            94.27,
                                  97.04
225 ILCS 440/1 et seq.            157.341
225 ILCS 710/9.01                 157.440
225 ILCS 715/1 et seq.            157.440
230 ILCS 15                       112.01
                                  112.01,
230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.          112.05 -
                                  112.07
230 ILCS 40                       157.187,
                                  157.206
                                  112.25,
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.             112.26,
                                  112.29,
                                  112.30
                                  111.01,
                                  111.26,
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.            111.28,
                                  111.30,
                                  111.99,
                                  112.27
235 ILCS 5/1-1 through 1-3.42     111.25,
                                  111.26
235 ILCS 5/1-3.24                 111.27
410 ILCS 15/1 et seq.             157.556,
                                  157.587
410 ILCS 25/1 et seq.             154.009
                                  97.04,
415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.              98.01,
                                  98.02
415 ILCS 5/3.55                   97.04
415 ILCS 5/3.105                  97.04
415 ILCS 5/3.130                  97.04
415 ILCS 5/3.210                  97.04
415 ILCS 5/3.340                  97.04
415 ILCS 5/3.345                  97.04
415 ILCS 5/3.355                  97.04
415 ILCS 5/3.450                  97.04
415 ILCS 5/3.460                  97.04
415 ILCS 5/3.508                  97.04
415 ILCS 5/3.515                  97.04
415 ILCS 5/14 et seq.             97.04
415 ILCS 5/14.2                   97.05,
                                  98.05
415 ILCS 5/14.3                   97.05,
                                  98.05
415 ILCS 5/22.19a                 98.05
                                  91.66,
415 ILCS 5/39.2                   98.04,
                                  98.05
415 ILCS 5/39.2(a)                98.16
415 ILCS 5/39.2(c)                98.04
415 ILCS 5/39.2(d)                98.11
415 ILCS 5/39.2(e)                98.12
415 ILCS 5/39.2(k)                98.12
415 ILCS 10/1 et seq.             98.05
415 ILCS 15/1 et seq.             91.65,
                                  98.05
415 ILCS 30/1 et seq.             94.46
415 ILCS 55/1 et seq.             97.02
430 ILCS 45/3                     97.04
510 ILCS 5/1 through 5/27      90.01
510 ILCS 5/2.11b                  90.01
510 ILCS 5/10                     90.40
510 ILCS 77/10.23                 97.04
520 ILCS 5/3.27                   157.005
520 ILCS 5/3.27 though 5/3.3      157.440
605 ILCS 5/2-202                  110.01
625 ILCS 5/1-188                  10.02
625 ILCS 5/3-400 et seq.          93.02
625 ILCS 5/3-804                  93.02
625 ILCS 5/11-301 et seq.         157.316
720 ILCS 5/2-13                   90.01
720 ILCS 5/11-0.1 through 11-45   150.02
720 ILCS 5/12C-30                 150.02
720 ILCS 5/26-4                   150.02
720 ILCS 5/26.5-0.1               150.02
720 ILCS 5/28-2(b)                112.02
720 ILCS 5/47-5                   154.002
720 ILCS 150/0.01 et seq.         150.02
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.            130.06,
                                  150.02
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.          130.06,
                                  150.02
720 ILCS 640/0.01 et seq.         150.02
720 ILCS 670/0.01 et seq.         150.02
730 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.          111.99
735 ILCS 5/3-101                  157.621
                                  34.32,
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.          151.11,
                                  157.480,
                                  157.621
765 ILCS 165                      156.03
765 ILCS 205                      155.008,
                                  155.030
                                  155.010,
                                  157.086,
765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.         157.106,
                                  157.266,
                                  157.556
765 ILCS 205/1(b)                 155.032
765 ILCS 205/2                    152.08 ,
                                  Ch. 155 Appendix B
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2018 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2018 Code Section
1 TCC 2-1          31.01
1 TCC 2-2          31.02
1 TCC 2-3          31.03
1 TCC 2-4          31.04
1 TCC 2-6          31.06
1 TCC 3-1          30.01
1 TCC 3-2          30.02
1 TCC 3-3          30.03
1 TCC 3-4          30.04
1 TCC 3-5          30.05
1 TCC 3-6          30.06
1 TCC 3-7          30.07
1 TCC 3-8          30.08
1 TCC 3-9          30.09
1 TCC 3-10         30.10
1 TCC 4-1          33.01
1 TCC 4-2          33.02
1 TCC 4-3          33.03
1 TCC 4-4          33.04
1 TCC 4-5          33.05
1 TCC 4-6          33.06
1 TCC 4-7          33.07
1 TCC 4-8          33.08
1 TCC 4-9          33.09
1 TCC 4-10         33.10
1 TCC 4-11         33.11
1 TCC 4-12         33.12
1 TCC 4-13         33.13
1 TCC 6-1          34.01
1 TCC 6-2          34.02
1 TCC 6-3          34.03
1 TCC 6-4          34.04
1 TCC 6-5          34.05
1 TCC 6-6          34.06
1 TCC 6-7          34.07
1 TCC 6-8          34.08
1 TCC 6-9          34.20
1 TCC 6-10         34.21
1 TCC 6-11         34.22
1 TCC 6-12         34.23
1 TCC 6-13         34.24
1 TCC 6-14         34.25
1 TCC 6-15         34.26
1 TCC 6-16         34.27
1 TCC 6-17         34.28
1 TCC 6-18         34.29
1 TCC 6-19         34.30
1 TCC 6-20         34.99
1 TCC 6-21         34.31
1 TCC 6-22         34.32
1 TCC 6-23         34.33
1 TCC 6-25         34.34
2 TCC 1-1          32.001
2 TCC 1-2          32.002
2 TCC 1-3          32.003
2 TCC 2-1          32.065 -
                   32.080
2 TCC 3-1          32.095
2 TCC 3-2          32.096
2 TCC 3-3          32.097
2 TCC 3-4          32.098
2 TCC 3-5          32.099 -
                   32.107
2 TCC 4-1          32.120 -
                   32.131
2 TCC 5-1          32.015
2 TCC 5-2          32.016
2 TCC 5-3          32.017
2 TCC 6-1          32.030
2 TCC 6-2          32.031
2 TCC 6-3          32.032
2 TCC 6-4          32.033
2 TCC 6-5          32.034
2 TCC 7-1          32.045
2 TCC 7-2          32.046
2 TCC 7-3          32.047
2 TCC 7-4          32.048
2 TCC 7-5          32.049
2 TCC 7-6          32.050
3 TCC 1-1          111.25
3 TCC 1-2          111.26
3 TCC 1-3          111.27
3 TCC 1-4          111.28
3 TCC 1-5          111.29
3 TCC 1-6          111.30
3 TCC 1-6A         111.31
3 TCC 1-6B         111.32
3 TCC 1-6C         111.33
3 TCC 1-7          111.34
3 TCC 1-8          111.35
3 TCC 1-9          111.36
3 TCC 1-10         111.01
3 TCC 1-11         111.02
3 TCC 1-12         111.03
3 TCC 1-13         111.04
3 TCC 1-14         111.05
3 TCC 1-15         111.06
3 TCC 1-16         111.07
3 TCC 1-17         111.08
3 TCC 1-18         111.09
3 TCC 1-19         111.10
3 TCC 1-19.1       111.11
3 TCC 1-20         111.12
3 TCC 1-21         111.99
3 TCC 2-1          112.01
3 TCC 2-2          112.02
3 TCC 2-3          112.03
3 TCC 2-4          112.04
3 TCC 2-5          112.05
3 TCC 2-6          112.06
3 TCC 2-7          112.07
3 TCC 2-8          112.08
3 TCC 2-9          112.09
3 TCC 2-10         112.10
3 TCC 2-11         112.11
3 TCC 2-12         112.30,
                   112.99
3 TCC 2-13         112.12
3 TCC 3-1          112.25
3 TCC 3-2          112.26
3 TCC 3-3          112.27
3 TCC 3-5          112.28
3 TCC 3-6          112.29
3 TCC 3-7          112.30
3 TCC 3-8          112.30,
                   112.99
4 TCC 2-1          93.20
4 TCC 2-2          93.21
4 TCC 2-3          93.99
4 TCC 3-1          91.01
4 TCC 3-2          91.02
4 TCC 3-3          91.99
4 TCC 4-1          91.30
4 TCC 4-2          91.31
4 TCC 4-3          91.32
4 TCC 4-4          91.33
4 TCC 4-5          91.34
4 TCC 4-6          91.99
5 TCC 2-1          110.01
5 TCC 2-2          110.99
5 TCC 3-1          93.35
6 TCC 1-1          94.25
6 TCC 1-2          94.26
6 TCC 1-3          94.27
6 TCC 1-4          94.28
6 TCC 1-5          94.29
6 TCC 1-6          94.30
6 TCC 1-7          94.31
6 TCC 1-12         94.36
6 TCC 1-8          94.32
6 TCC 1-9          94.33
6 TCC 1-10         91.45,
                   94.34
6 TCC 1-11         91.46,
                   94.35
6 TCC 1-12         91.47
6 TCC 1-13         91.48
6 TCC 1-14         91.49
6 TCC 1-15         91.50
6 TCC 1-16         94.01
6 TCC 1-17         94.02
6 TCC 1-18         94.03
6 TCC 1-19         94.04
6 TCC 1-20         94.05
6 TCC 1-21         94.06
6 TCC 1-22         94.07
6 TCC 1-23         94.08
6 TCC 1-24         94.09
6 TCC 1-25         94.10
6 TCC 1-26         94.99
6 TCC 2-1          91.15
6 TCC 2-2          91.16
6 TCC 2-3          91.17
6 TCC 2-4          91.99
6 TCC 3-1          95.01
6 TCC 3-2          95.02
6 TCC 3-3          95.03
6 TCC 3-4          95.04
6 TCC 3-5          95.99
6 TCC 3-6          95.05
6 TCC 4-1          96.01
6 TCC 4-2          96.02
6 TCC 4-3          96.03
6 TCC 4-4          96.04
6 TCC 4-5          96.05
6 TCC 4-6          96.06
6 TCC 4-7          96.07
6 TCC 4-8          96.08
6 TCC 4-9          96.09
6 TCC 4-10         96.10
6 TCC 4-11         96.11
6 TCC 4-12         96.12
6 TCC 4-13         96.99
6 TCC 4-14         96.13
6 TCC 5-1          92.01
6 TCC 5-2          92.02
6 TCC 5-3          92.03
6 TCC 5-4          92.04
6 TCC 5-5          92.05
6 TCC 5-6          92.06
6 TCC 5-7          92.07
6 TCC 5-8          92.08
6 TCC 5-9          92.09
6 TCC 5-10         92.10
6 TCC 5-11         92.99
6 TCC 5-12         92.99
6 TCC 5-13         92.99
6 TCC 6-1          97.01
6 TCC 6-2          97.02
6 TCC 6-3          97.03
6 TCC 6-4          97.04
6 TCC 6-5          97.05
6 TCC 6-6          97.06
6 TCC 6-7          97.07
6 TCC 6-8          97.08
6 TCC 6-9          97.09
6 TCC 6-10         97.10
6 TCC 6-11         97.11
6 TCC 6-12         97.12
6 TCC 6-13         97.13
6 TCC 6-14         97.99
6 TCC 6-15         97.14
6 TCC 6-16         97.15
6 TCC 6-17         97.16
6 TCC 6-20         97.17
6 TCC 6-Exhibits   97.18
6 TCC 7-1          91.65
6 TCC 7-2          91.66
6 TCC 8-1          98.01
6 TCC 8-2          98.02
6 TCC 8-3          98.03
6 TCC 8-4          98.04
6 TCC 8-5          98.05
6 TCC 8-6          98.06
6 TCC 8-7          98.07
6 TCC 8-8          98.08
6 TCC 8-9          98.09
6 TCC 8-10         98.10
6 TCC 8-11         98.11
6 TCC 8-12         98.12
6 TCC 8-13         98.13
6 TCC 8-14         98.14
6 TCC 8-15         98.15
6 TCC 8-16         98.16
6 TCC 8-17         98.17
6 TCC 8-18         98.18
6 TCC 8-19         98.19
6 TCC 8-20         98.20
6 TCC 8-21         98.21
6 TCC 8-22         98.22
6 TCC 8-23         98.23
6 TCC 9-1          94.45
6 TCC 9-2          94.46
6 TCC 9-3          94.47
6 TCC 9-4          94.48
6 TCC 9-5          94.49
6 TCC 9-6          94.50
6 TCC 9-7          94.51
6 TCC 9-8          94.52
6 TCC 9-9          94.53
6 TCC 9-10         94.54
6 TCC 9-11         94.55
6 TCC 9-12         94.56
6 TCC 9-13         94.57
6 TCC 9-14         94.99
7 TCC 1-1(a)       157.001
7 TCC 1-1(b)       157.002
7 TCC 1-1(c)       157.003
7 TCC 1-2(a)       157.004
7 TCC 1-2(b)       157.005
7 TCC 1-3(a)       157.006
7 TCC 1-3(b)       157.007
7 TCC 1-4(a)       157.020
7 TCC 1-4(b)       157.021
7 TCC 1-4(c)       157.022
7 TCC 1-4(d)       157.023
7 TCC 1-4(e)       157.024
7 TCC 1-5(a)       157.035
7 TCC 1-5(b)       157.036
7 TCC 1-5(c)       157.037
7 TCC 1-5(d)       157.038
7 TCC 1-5(e)       157.039
7 TCC 1-5(f)       157.040
7 TCC 1-5(g)       157.041
7 TCC 1-5(h)       157.042
7 TCC 1-5(i)       157.043
7 TCC 1-5(j)       157.044
7 TCC 1-5(k)       157.045
7 TCC 1-5(l)       157.046
7 TCC 1-5(m)       157.047
7 TCC 1-5(n)       157.048
7 TCC 1-5(o)       157.049
7 TCC 1-5(p)       157.050
7 TCC 1-5(q)       157.051
7 TCC 1-5(r)       157.052
7 TCC 1-5(s)       157.053
7 TCC 1-5(t)       157.054
7 TCC 1-5(u)       157.055
7 TCC 1-5(v)       157.056
7 TCC 1-5(w)       157.057
7 TCC 1-5(x)       157.058
7 TCC 1-5(y)       157.059
7 TCC 1-6(a)       157.070
7 TCC 1-6(a)       157.071,
                   157.072
7 TCC 1-6(b)       157.073
7 TCC 1-7(a)       157.085
7 TCC 1-7(b)       157.086
7 TCC 1-7(c)       157.087
7 TCC 1-7(d)       157.088
7 TCC 1-7(e)       157.089
7 TCC 1-7(f)       157.090
7 TCC 1-7(g)       157.091
7 TCC 1-7(h)       157.092
7 TCC 1-8(a)       157.105
7 TCC 1-8(b)       157.106
7 TCC 1-8(c)       157.107
7 TCC 1-8(d)       157.108
7 TCC 1-8(e)       157.109
7 TCC 1-8(f)       157.110
7 TCC 1-8(g)       157.111
7 TCC 1-8(h)       157.112
7 TCC 1-9(a)       157.125
7 TCC 1-9(b)       157.126
7 TCC 1-9(c)       157.127
7 TCC 1-9(d)       157.128
7 TCC 1-9(e)       157.129
7 TCC 1-9(f)       157.130
7 TCC 1-9(g)       157.131
7 TCC 1-9(h)       157.132
7 TCC 1-10(a)      157.145
7 TCC 1-10(b)      157.146
7 TCC 1-10(c)      157.147
7 TCC 1-10(d)      157.148
7 TCC 1-10(e)      157.149
7 TCC 1-10(f)      157.150
7 TCC 1-10(g)      157.151
7 TCC 1-10(h)      157.152
7 TCC 1-11(a)      157.165
7 TCC 1-11(b)      157.166
7 TCC 1-11(c)      157.167
7 TCC 1-11(d)      157.168
7 TCC 1-11(e)      157.169
7 TCC 1-11(f)      157.170
7 TCC 1-11(g)      157.171
7 TCC 1-11(h)      157.172
7 TCC 1-12(a)      157.185
7 TCC 1-12(b)      157.186
7 TCC 1-12(c)      157.187
7 TCC 1-12(d)      157.188
7 TCC 1-12(e)      157.189
7 TCC 1-12(f)      157.190
7 TCC 1-12(g)      157.191
7 TCC 1-12(h)      157.192
7 TCC 1-13(a)      157.205
7 TCC 1-13(b)      157.206
7 TCC 1-13(c)      157.207
7 TCC 1-13(d)      157.208
7 TCC 1-13(e)      157.209
7 TCC 1-13(f)      157.210
7 TCC 1-13(g)      157.211
7 TCC 1-13(h)      157.212
7 TCC 1-14(a)      157.225
7 TCC 1-14(b)      157.226
7 TCC 1-14(c)      157.227
7 TCC 1-14(d)      157.228
7 TCC 1-14(e)      157.229
7 TCC 1-14(f)      157.230
7 TCC 1-14(g)      157.231
7 TCC 1-14(h)      157.232
7 TCC 1-15(a)      157.245
7 TCC 1-15(b)      157.246
7 TCC 1-15(c)      157.247
7 TCC 1-15(d)      157.248
7 TCC 1-15(e)      157.249
7 TCC 1-15(f)      157.250
7 TCC 1-15(g)      157.251
7 TCC 1-15(h)      157.252
7 TCC 1-16(a)      157.265
7 TCC 1-16(b)      157.266
7 TCC 1-16(c)      157.267
7 TCC 1-16(d)      157.268
7 TCC 1-16(e)      157.269
7 TCC 1-16(f)      157.270
7 TCC 1-16(g)      157.271
7 TCC 1-16(h)      157.272
7 TCC 1-17(a)      157.285
7 TCC 1-17(b)      157.286
7 TCC 1-17(c)      157.287
7 TCC 1-18(a)      157.300
7 TCC 1-18(b)      157.301
7 TCC 1-18(c)      157.302
7 TCC 1-19(a)      157.315
7 TCC 1-19(b)      157.316
7 TCC 1-19(c)      157.317
7 TCC 1-19(d)      157.318
7 TCC 1-20(a)      157.330
7 TCC 1-20(b)      157.331
7 TCC 1-20(c)      157.332
7 TCC 1-20(d)      157.333
7 TCC 1-20(e)      157.334
7 TCC 1-20(f)      157.335
7 TCC 1-20(g)      157.336
7 TCC 1-20(h)      157.337
7 TCC 1-20(i)      157.338
7 TCC 1-20(j)      157.339
7 TCC 1-20(k)      157.340
7 TCC 1-20(l)      157.341
7 TCC 1-20(m)      157.342
7 TCC 1-21(a)      157.355
7 TCC 1-21(b)      157.356
7 TCC 1-21(c)      157.357
7 TCC 1-21(d)      157.358
7 TCC 1-21(e)      157.359
7 TCC 1-21(f)      157.360
7 TCC 1-21(g)      157.361
7 TCC 1-21(h)      157.362
7 TCC 1-21(i)      157.363
7 TCC 1-22(a)      157.375
7 TCC 1-22(b)      157.376
7 TCC 1-22(c)      157.377
7 TCC 1-22(d)      157.378
7 TCC 1-22(e)      157.379
7 TCC 1-22(f)      157.380
7 TCC 1-22(g)      157.381
7 TCC 1-22(h)      157.382
7 TCC 1-22(i)      157.383
7 TCC 1-22(j)      157.384
7 TCC 1-22(k)      157.999
7 TCC 1-23(a)      157.395
7 TCC 1-23(b)      157.396
7 TCC 1-23(c)      157.397
7 TCC 1-23(d)      157.398
7 TCC 1-23(e)      157.399
7 TCC 1-23(f)      157.400
7 TCC 1-23(g)      157.401
7 TCC 1-24(a)      157.415
7 TCC 1-24(b)      157.416
7 TCC 1-24(c)      157.417
7 TCC 1-24(d)      157.418
7 TCC 1-24(e)      157.419
7 TCC 1-24(f)      157.420
7 TCC 1-24(g)      157.423
7 TCC 1-25(a)      157.435
7 TCC 1-25(b)      157.436
7 TCC 1-25(c)      157.437
7 TCC 1-25(d)      157.438
7 TCC 1-25(e)      157.439
7 TCC 1-25(f)      157.440
7 TCC 1-25(g)      157.441
7 TCC 1-25(h)      157.442
7 TCC 1-25(i)      157.443
7 TCC 1-25(j)      157.444
7 TCC 1-25(k)      157.445
7 TCC 1-25(l)      157.446
7 TCC 1-25(m)      157.447
7 TCC 1-26(a)      157.460
7 TCC 1-26(b)      157.461
7 TCC 1-26(c)      157.462
7 TCC 1-26(d)      157.463
7 TCC 1-26(e)      157.464
7 TCC 1-26(f)      157.465
7 TCC 1-26(g)      157.466
7 TCC 1-26(h)      157.467
7 TCC 1-26(i)      157.468
7 TCC 1-27(a)      157.480
7 TCC 1-27(b)      157.481
7 TCC 1-27(c)      157.482
7 TCC 1-27(d)      157.483
7 TCC 1-27(e)      157.484
7 TCC 1-27(f)      157.485
7 TCC 1-27(g)      157.486
7 TCC 1-27(h)      157.487
7 TCC 1-27(i)      157.488
7 TCC 1-27(j)      157.489
7 TCC 1-27(k)      157.490
7 TCC 1-27(l)      157.491
7 TCC 1-27(m)      157.492
7 TCC 1-28(a)      157.505
7 TCC 1-28(b)      157.506
7 TCC 1-28(c)      157.507
7 TCC 1-28(d)      157.508
7 TCC 1-29(a)      157.520
7 TCC 1-29(b)      157.521
7 TCC 1-29(c)      157.522
7 TCC 1-29(d)      157.523
7 TCC 1-29(e)      157.524
7 TCC 1-29(f)      157.525
7 TCC 1-29(g)      157.526
7 TCC 1-29(h)      157.527
7 TCC 1-29(i)      157.528
7 TCC 1-30(a)      157.540
7 TCC 1-30(b)      157.541
7 TCC 1-31(a)      157.555
7 TCC 1-31(b)      157.556
7 TCC 1-31(c)      157.557
7 TCC 1-31(d)      157.558
7 TCC 1-31(e)      157.559
7 TCC 1-31(f)      157.560
7 TCC 1-31(g)      157.561
7 TCC 1-31(h)      157.562
7 TCC 1-31(i)      157.563
7 TCC 1-31(j)      157.564
7 TCC 1-31(k)      157.565
7 TCC 1-31(l)      157.566
7 TCC 1-31(m)      157.567
7 TCC 1-31(n)      157.568
7 TCC 1-31(o)      157.569
7 TCC 1-31(p)      157.570
7 TCC 1-32(a)      157.585
7 TCC 1-32(b)      157.586
7 TCC 1-32(c)      157.587
7 TCC 1-32(d)      157.588
7 TCC 1-32(e)      157.589
7 TCC 1-33(a)      157.600
7 TCC 1-33(b)      157.601
7 TCC 1-33(c)      157.602
7 TCC 1-33(d)      157.603
7 TCC 1-34(a)      157.615
7 TCC 1-34(b)      157.616
7 TCC 1-34(c)      157.617
7 TCC 1-34(d)      157.618
7 TCC 1-34(e)      157.619
7 TCC 1-34(f)      157.620
7 TCC 1-34(g)      157.621
7 TCC 1-35(a)      157.635
7 TCC 1-35(b)      157.636
7 TCC 1-35(c)      157.637
7 TCC 1-35(d)      157.638
7 TCC 1-35(e)      157.639
7 TCC 1-35(f)      157.640
7 TCC 1-35(g)      157.641
7 TCC 1-35(h)      157.642
7 TCC 1-35(i)      157.643
7 TCC 1-36(a)      157.999
7 TCC 1-36(b)      157.999
7 TCC 2-2          150.01
7 TCC 2-3          150.02
7 TCC 2-4          150.03
7 TCC 2-5          150.04
7 TCC 2-6          150.05
7 TCC 2-7          150.06
7 TCC 2-8          150.07
7 TCC 2-9          150.08
7 TCC 2-10         150.09
7 TCC 2-11         150.20
7 TCC 2-12         150.21
7 TCC 2-13         150.22
7 TCC 2-14         150.23
7 TCC 2-15         150.24
7 TCC 2-16         150.25
7 TCC 2-17         150.26
7 TCC 2-18         150.27
7 TCC 2-19         150.28
7 TCC 2-20         150.99
7 TCC 2-21         150.29
7 TCC 2-22         150.30
7 TCC 3-1          153.01
7 TCC 3-2          153.02
7 TCC 4-1          153.20
7 TCC 4-2          153.21
7 TCC 4-3          153.22
7 TCC 4-4          153.23
7 TCC 4-5          153.24
7 TCC 4-6          153.25
7 TCC 4-7          153.26
7 TCC 4-8          153.27
7 TCC 4-9          153.28
7 TCC 5-1(a)       154.001
7 TCC 5-1(b)       154.002
7 TCC 5-1(c)       154.003
7 TCC 5-1(e)       154.004
7 TCC 5-1(f)       154.999
7 TCC 5-1(g)       154.005
7 TCC 5-1(h)       154.006
7 TCC 5-1(i)       154.007
7 TCC 5-1(j)       154.008
7 TCC 5-1(k)       154.009
7 TCC 5-1(f)       154.010
7 TCC 5-Appendix A 154.011
7 TCC 5-2(a)       154.025
7 TCC 5-2(b)       154.026
7 TCC 5-3(a)       154.040
7 TCC 5-3(b)       154.041
7 TCC 5-4(a)       154.055
7 TCC 5-4(b)       154.056
7 TCC 5-5(a)       154.070
7 TCC 5-6(a)       154.085
7 TCC 5-7(a)       154.100
7 TCC 5-7(b)       154.101
7 TCC 5-8(a)       154.115
7 TCC 5-8(b)       154.116
7 TCC 5-9(a)       154.130
8 TCC 1-1          93.01
8 TCC 1-2          93.02
8 TCC 1-3          93.03
8 TCC 1-4          93.04
8 TCC 1-5          93.05,
                   93.99
8 TCC 1-6          93.06
8 TCC 1-7          93.07
8 TCC 1-8          93.08
8 TCC 1-9          93.09
8 TCC 3-1          151.01
8 TCC 3-2          151.02
8 TCC 3-3          151.03
8 TCC 3-4          151.04
8 TCC 3-5          151.05
8 TCC 3-6          151.06
8 TCC 3-7          151.07
8 TCC 3-8          151.08
8 TCC 3-9          151.99
8 TCC 3-10         151.09
8 TCC 3-11         151.10 
8 TCC 3-12         151.11
8 TCC 3-Appendix A 151.12
8 TCC 3-Appendix B 151.13
8 TCC 4-1          152.01
8 TCC 4-2          152.02
8 TCC 4-3          152.03
8 TCC 4-4          152.04
8 TCC 4-5          152.05
8 TCC 4-6          152.06
8 TCC 4-7          152.07
8 TCC 4-8          152.08
8 TCC 4-9          152.09
8 TCC 4-10         152.10
8 TCC 4-11         152.11
8 TCC 4-12         152.12
8 TCC 4-13         152.99
8 TCC 4-14         152.13
8 TCC 5-1          154.150
8 TCC 5-2          154.151
8 TCC 5-5          154.152
8 TCC 5-3          154.999
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      9-25-1985   TSO I
—      11-29-2006  30.01 -
                     30.10
—      1-28-2009   TSO I
                     154.001,
                     154.003,
                     154.006,
LU-18-04 4-25-2018   154.025,
                     154.026,
                     154.130,
                     154.131
LU-18-05 4-25-2018   156.02,
                     156.06
                     151.05,
LU-18-13 8-29-2018   152.05,
                     154.011,
                     156.10
LU-18-17 10-31-2018  156.02,
                     156.05
LU-18-21 11-14-2018  156.06
E-19-48  2-27-2019   32.045 -
                     32.050
E-19-71  4-24-2019   32.046
LU-20-02 1-29-2020   156.03
                     95.01 -
E-20-49  5-27-2020   95.05,
                     95.99
                     95.01 -
E-20-73  7-29-2020   95.05,
                     95.99
E-21-42  2-24-2021   94.29
E-22-18  2-23-2022   32.046
LU-22-06 7-27-2022   156.10
LU-22-07 8-31-2022   157.050,
                     157.601
LU-22-08 8-31-2022   154.145,
                     154.146
                     99.01,
E-22-80  9-28-2022    99.03,
                     99.05
E-22-95  9-28-2022   95.01,
                     95.04
E-23-19  1-25-2023   33.12
                     157.005,
                     157.086,
                     157.087,
                     157.106,
                     157.107,
                     157.126,
                     157.127,
                     157.416,
                     157.417,
LU-23-02 1-25-2023   157.420 -
                     157.423,
                     157.436,
                     157.440,
                     157.442 -
                     157.446,
                     157.480 -
                     157.484,
                     157.486,
                     157.491
                     33.02,
E-23-90  5-31-2023   33.04,
                     33.08,
                     33.09
                     157.046,
                     157.126,
LU-23-07 5-31-2023   157.127,
                     157.147,
                     157.167
LU-23-08 5-31-2023   157.481 -
                     157.483
LU-23-09 5-31-2023   153.01 -
                     153.11
                     156.02,
LU-23-10 5-31-2023   156.06,
                     156.10,
                     156.99
E-23-112 7-26-2023   31.06
                     33.02,
                     33.04,
E-23-131 10-25-2023  33.06,
                     33.07 -
                     33.09,
                     33.12
                     153.04 -
LU-24-03 3-27-2024   153.06,
                     153.09,
                     153.10
LU-24-04 3-27-2024   156.06
                     157.056,
LU-24-05 3-27-2024   157.446,
                     157.480
E-24-45  4-24-2024   33.07,
                     33.12
                     90.01,
HS-24-13 4-24-2024   90.02,
                     90.21 -
                     90.23
                     157.005,
                     157.072,
LU-24-09 5-29-2024   157.087,
                     157.107,
                     157.227,
                     157.247
                     95.01,
E-24-73  7-31-2024   95.03,
                     95.04
                     157.087,
                     157.107,
LU-24-17 8-28-2024   157.227,
                     157.247,
                     157.267
                     157.060,
                     157.072,
                     157.146,
LU-25-06 6-26-2025   157.147,
                     157.166,
                     157.439,
                     157.440
                     157.005,
                     157.086,
                     157.087,
LU-25-07 6-26-2025   157.106,
                     157.107,
                     157.266,
                     157.267,
                     157.440
                     157.072,
                     157.126,
                     157.127,
LU-25-11 9-24-2025   157.166,
                     157.167,
                     157.439,
                     157.440
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
                      130.01 –
—       - -         130.17,
                      130.99
—       4-11-1990   TSO I
—       11-18-1998  30.01 -
                      30.10
                      99.01 -
E-14-66   5-28-2014   99.09,
                      99.99
E-14-76   6-15-2014   30.01 -
                      30.10
E-14-108  11-19-2014  TSO II
E-14-109  11-19-2014  TSO II
14-01a-EZ 6-29-2016   TSO II
LU-16-02  6-29-2016   157.087
E-16-73   8-31-2016   30.01 -
                      30.10
LU-16-05  9-28-2016   157.087
                      152.01 -
LU-17-01  1-25-2017   152.13,
                      152.99
                      156.01 -
LU-17-03  5-31-2017   156.10,
                      156.99
                      157.050,
LU-17-05  9-27-2017   157.271,
                      157.272
E-17-106  9-27-2017   32.150 -
                      32.156
                      157.005,
                      157.055,
                      157.086,
                      157.087,
LU-17-14  11-15-2017  157.106,
                      157.107,
                      157.126,
                      157.127,
                      157.267,
                      157.440
E-18-22   2-25-2018   33.01 -
                      33.13
                      157.111,
LU-18-02  4-25-2018   157.112,
                      157.271,
                      157.272
                      157.147,
LU-18-06  6-27-2018   157.440,
                      157.601
                      157.005,
LU-18-11  8-29-2018   157.187,
                      157.206
LU-18-12  8-29-2018   157.600,
                      157.601
                      94.25,
                      94.28,
E-19-96   5-29-2019   94.29,
                      94.33,
                      94.35
                      90.01 -
E-19-97   5-29-2019   90.43,
                      90.99
                      157.005,
                      157.046,
                      157.086,
                      157.106,
LU-19-11  10-30-2019  157.186,
                      157.206,
                      157.226,
                      157.246,
                      157.266,
                      157.555
                      157.047,
                      157.073,
                      157.092,
                      157.112,
                      157.132,
LU-20-01  1-29-2020   157.152,
                      157.172,
                      157.192,
                      157.212,
                      157.232,
                      157.252,
                      157.272
                      157.005,
                      157.087,
                      157.107,
                      157.207,
LU-20-03  2-26-2020   157.227,
                      157.247,
                      157.317,
                      159.01 -
                      159.03
LU-20-09  11-18-2020  157.046
                      155.009,
                      155.010,
                      155.026 -
                      155.029,
                      155.032,
                      155.045,
                      155.047,
                      155.050 -
                      155.052,
                      155.071,
                      155.072,
LU-20-10  11-18-2020  155.074,
                      155.075,
                      155.077,
                      155.095,
                      155.110,
                      155.111,
                      155.131,
                      155.132,
                      155.150 -
                      155.152,
                      Ch. 155 App. A,
                      App. B
LU-21-02  3-31-2021   157.055
                      154.001 -
                      154.011,
                      154.025,
                      154.026,
                      154.040,
                      154.041,
                      154.055,
                      154.056,
                      154.070,
LU-21-06  7-28-2021   154.085,
                      154.100,
                      154.101,
                      154.115,
                      154.116,
                      154.130,
                      154.131,
                      154.135,
                      154.140,
                      154.141
LU-21-12  9-29-2021   157.050
                      154.001 -
                      154.011,
                      154.025,
                      154.026,
                      154.040,
                      154.041,
                      154.055,
                      154.056,
                      154.070,
LU-21-06  7-28-2021   154.085,
                      154.100,
                      154.101,
                      154.115,
                      154.116,
                      154.130,
                      154.131,
                      154.135,
                      154.140,
                      154.141
LU-21-12  9-29-2021   157.050
                     
 
