TOLUCA, IL
CITY CODE
2015
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-6-10, passed June 9, 2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Toluca, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 2025-6-10, passed June 9, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2015-8-10
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY OF TOLUCA CITY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of Toluca as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city
code of the city of Toluca prepared by Sterling Codifiers, containing the
compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the city,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law
of the city as enacted by the mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catch line and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
PASSED this 10th day of August, 2015.
APPROVED this 10th day of August, 2015.
/s/         
   Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/         
   City Clerk
Roll call vote:
AYES: 4
NAYS: 0
ABSENT: 2
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
Toluca City Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions; Interpretation   3
General Penalty   4
Civil Administrative Penalties   4A
Mayor   5
City Council   6
City Departments   7
Public Works Department   7A
Water And Sewer Department   7B
Police Department   7C
City Officers And Personnel   8
City Clerk   8A
City Treasurer   8B
City Attorney   8C
Ethics   9
Tax Regulations   10
Tax Rights And Responsibilities   10A
Municipal Utilities Taxes   10B
Simplified Municipal Telecommunications
Tax   10C
Election Wards   11
Reimbursement Of Travel Expenses   12
Expense Reimbursement Policy   12A
Sexual Harassment   13
CHAPTER 1
TOLUCA CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of Toluca. This code of ordinances
shall be known and cited as the TOLUCA CITY CODE and is hereby published by
authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most
recent legislation of the city as provided in section
 1-1-3  of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2015 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
 1-2-1 of this title. (2015 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
numbers of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2015 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council.
(2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the city; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (2015 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2015 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The city council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   F.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   G.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Toluca".
   I.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   J.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to city ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2015 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   CITY: The city of Toluca, county of Marshall, state of Illinois.
   CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of
Toluca.
   CODE: The city code of the city of Toluca.
   COUNTY: The county of Marshall, state of Illinois.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   STATE: The state of Illinois. (2015 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2015
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Nonliability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   General Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Fine; Imprisonment: Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this
code, any person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and
provisions of this code shall be fined in an amount not more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for any one offense. No imprisonment for failure to pay
such fine, penalty or cost shall exceed six (6) months for each offense. Each
day that a violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
      2.   Additional Penalties: In addition to the fine described in
subsection A1 of this section, the circuit court may impose a period of
"conditional discharge", as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-4,
or "court supervision", as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-21,
for a period of up to six (6) months, an order of restitution, an order to
perform community service, an order to complete an education program and/or any
other appropriate penalties or conditions authorized in any section of this
code or stand alone ordinance or any conditions for conditional discharge set
forth in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3 or for court supervision in 730
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3.1, as the foregoing are amended from time to
time.
      3.   Costs And Fees: Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
code shall be subject, in addition to the penalties set out in this subsection
A, to the payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees.
      4.   Default In Payment: A default in the payment of a fine or any
installment of a fine may be collected by any means authorized for the
collection of monetary judgments. The city attorney may retain attorneys and
private collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment
of any fine or installment of that fine. Any fees or costs incurred by the city
with respect to attorneys or private collection agents retained by the city
attorney under this subsection A4 shall be charged to the offender.
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of this
code or any ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws
of the state, is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be
for a period of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary
not to exceed six (6) months, and the matter shall be prosecuted under the
rules of criminal procedure of the state, and the city shall be required to
establish guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. This subsection shall not apply to
city code provisions adopted pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-5-
1, 5/11-5-2, 5/11-5-3, 5/11-5-4, 5/11-5-5, 5/11-5-6, 5/11-40-1, 5/11-40-2, 5/
11-40-2a, 5/11-40-3, 5/11-80-9 and 5/11-80-16.
   C.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense. (2015 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section unless otherwise indicated. Any person
convicted of a violation of any section of this code where a duty is prescribed
or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing nature is
forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2015 Code)
1-4-3: NONLIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2015
Code)
ARTICLE A. CIVIL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES
SECTION:
1-4A-1: Prosecutorial Discretion Authorized
1-4A-2: Procedures
1-4A-3: Schedule Of Penalties
1-4A-4: Payment Of Penalties
1-4A-1: PROSECUTORIAL DISCRETION AUTHORIZED:
The City Attorney is hereby granted the power and discretion to determine which
alleged violations of this Code and the ordinances of the City are properly
filed with the County Circuit Court, and which alleged violations are properly
handled on an administrative basis by the City. (Ord., 3-13-2000)
1-4A-2: PROCEDURES:
   A.   If the City Attorney deems it appropriate, any person alleged to have
violated a provision of this Code and the ordinances of the City may be issued
an administrative citation in lieu of a court summons, notice to appear, or
uniform ticket, setting forth the following:
      1.   The name of the alleged violator.
      2.   The section of the Code or ordinance of the City alleged to have
been violated.
      3.   The date of the alleged violation.
      4.   The administrative penalty provided herein for said violation.
      5.   The date by which said penalty must be paid.
   B.   If the penalty provided is paid in full by the date set forth in the
notice, or by any continued date provided by the City Attorney, the violation
shall be considered fully satisfied and paid, and no further action may be
taken on the alleged violation. If the penalty is not paid by the date
provided, the City Attorney is authorized to file and prosecute with the County
Circuit Court any appropriate action to enforce this Code and the ordinances of
the City.
   C.   Payment of the administrative penalty provided shall not be an
admission of guilt and shall not be used against an alleged violator in any
other court proceeding, except in determining an extended penalty for a second
or subsequent offense, should one be provided. (Ord., 3-13-2000)
1-4A-3: SCHEDULE OF PENALTIES:
The administrative penalties for a violation of this Code and the ordinances of
the City shall be in accord with the following schedule:
Code Section Subject Penalties
Code Section Subject                           Penalties
             Alcoholic beverage
             establishments, closing hours:
              First offense                   $100.00
              Second offense                  200.00
3-1-10                                         $250.00 fine and a hearing in
                                               front of the Liquor Commissioner
              Third and subsequent offenses   which could result in a
                                               revocation or suspension of the
                                               liquor license
             Possession or consumption of
             intoxicating liquor by persons
3-1-12A      under 21 years of age or the      $125.00
             attempt to purchase intoxicating
             liquor by persons under 21 years
             of age, each offense
5-2-1        Disorderly conduct, each offense  75.00
5-2-3        Loitering, each offense           25.00
5-2-5        Public urination or defecation,   25.00
             each offense
5-2-8        Possession of drug paraphernalia, 250.00
             each offense
             Possession of tobacco products
             under 18 years of age:
5-3-2         First offense                   25.00
              Second offense                  50.00
              Third and subsequent offenses   75.00
 
(Ord., 3-13-2000; amd. 2015 Code)
1-4A-4: PAYMENT OF PENALTIES:
All penalties shall be paid at the Office of the City Clerk during normal
business hours. All payments, whether made in person or made by mail, must
arrive by the close of business of the day provided by the administrative
notice. If such date shall fall on a day on which the office is closed for any
reason, it shall be due by the close of business of the next business day.
(Ord., 3-13-2000)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election And Term
1-5-2: Bond; Oath; Compensation
1-5-3: Powers And Duties Generally
1-5-4: Appointment Of Offices; Designation Of Duties
1-5-5: Mayor Pro Tem And Acting Mayor
1-5-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
The mayor shall be elected for a term of four (4) years and shall serve until
his successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute. (Prior code §
3-1)
1-5-2: BOND; OATH; COMPENSATION:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the mayor shall give a bond with
sureties to be approved by the city council conditioned upon his faithful
performance of his duties, in the sum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00). He
shall take the oath of office as prescribed by statute and shall receive such
compensation as may be set from time to time by the city council. (Prior code §
3-5)
1-5-3: POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY:
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city and shall perform
all such duties as may be required of him by statute or ordinance. He shall
have supervision over all of the executive officers of the city and over all of
the employees of the city. He shall have the power and authority to inspect all
books and records kept by any city officer or employee at any reasonable time.
(Prior code § 3-2)
1-5-4: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS; DESIGNATION OF DUTIES:
   A.   Appointment Of Officers; Terms:
      1.   The mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the
city council, all officers of the city whose election or appointment is not
otherwise provided for. Any vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall
be filled in the same manner.
      2.   Unless otherwise provided, each such appointive officer shall hold
office until the Tuesday after the second Monday in May following his
appointment or until his successor is appointed and qualified. (Prior code § 3-
3)
   B.   Designation Of Duties: Whenever there is a question as to the
respective powers or duties of any appointed officer of the city, this shall be
settled by the mayor; and he shall have the power to delegate to any such
officer any duty which is to be performed when no specific officer has been
directed to perform the duty. (Prior code § 3-4)
1-5-5: MAYOR PRO TEM AND ACTING MAYOR:
   A.   Mayor Pro Tem: During the temporary absence or disability of the mayor,
the city council shall elect one of its number to act as mayor pro tem who,
during the absence or disability of the mayor, shall perform the duties
pertaining to the office. (Prior code § 3-6)
   B.   Acting Mayor: In the event of a vacancy in the office of mayor, the
city council may appoint one of its members as acting mayor, to serve until the
vacancy is filled at a regular or special election as provided by law. (Prior
code § 3-7)
CHAPTER 6
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election And Terms; Functions
1-6-2: Oath And Compensation
1-6-3: Meetings
1-6-4: Rules And Order Of Business
1-6-1: ELECTION AND TERMS; FUNCTIONS:
The city council shall consist of six (6) aldermen, two (2) each to be elected
to office from each ward for a four (4) year term, according to the method
provided by statute. The council shall be the legislative department of the
city government and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be
delegated thereto by statute. (Prior code § 4-1-1)
1-6-2: OATH AND COMPENSATION:
The members of the city council shall take the oath of office prescribed by
statute and shall receive such compensation as may be provided by ordinance.
(Prior code § 4-1-2)
1-6-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall hold its regular meetings on
the second Monday of each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. If the regular
meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take place on the next
secular day at the same hour. (Prior code § 4-1-3; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Adjourned Meetings: Adjourned meetings may be held at such times as the
council may determine.
   C.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the mayor or any
three (3) aldermen upon such notice as provided by statute.
   D.   Meeting Place: The meeting place of the city council shall be at the
city hall unless otherwise ordered by the council. (Prior code § 4-1-3)
   E.   Presiding Officer: The mayor shall be the presiding officer of all
regular and special meetings of the city council and at all times when the
council meets as a committee of the whole. (Prior code § 4-1-4)
1-6-4: RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Order Of Business: The order of business of the city council shall be
as follows:
      1.   Roll call.
      2.   Minutes of the preceding meeting.
      3.   Communications, resolutions, ordinances and bills.
      4.   Reports of officers.
      5.   Reports of committees.
      6.   Other business. (Prior code § 4-2-1)
   B.   Rescinded Action: No vote or action of the city council shall be
rescinded at any special meeting of the city council unless there is present at
such meeting as many of the city council as were present at the meeting when
such vote or action was taken, as provided by statute. (Prior code § 4-2-2)
   C.   Resolutions: Any resolutions submitted to the city council shall be
reduced to writing before being voted upon on request of any two (2) aldermen.
(Prior code § 4-2-3)
   D.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of order, other than those prescribed by
statute, may be suspended at any time by the consent of a majority of the
aldermen present at any meeting. (Prior code § 4-2-4)
   E.   Robert's Rules Of Order: "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern the
deliberation of the city council except when in conflict with any of the
foregoing rules. (Prior code § 4-2-5)
   F.   Quorum: A majority of the aldermen shall constitute a quorum to do
business, but no ordinance or measure for the expenditure of money shall be
passed except upon the favorable vote of a majority of the elected aldermen, as
provided by statute. (Prior code § 4-2-6)
   G.   Committees:
      1.   The following shall be the standing committees of the city council:
         Finance.
         House numbering.
         Planning.
         Police.
         Public grounds and buildings.
         Public works, licenses and judiciary.
         Purchasing, claims and accounts.
         Streets and alleys.
         Water, sewer and lights.
      2.   All standing and special committees shall consist of three (3)
members each, including the chair, unless the council shall direct otherwise.
All committees shall be appointed by the mayor. (Prior code § 4-2-7)
   H.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any
meeting of the city council or of any committee thereof. (Prior code § 4-2-8)
CHAPTER 7
   CITY DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE A. PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Department Created; Composition
1-7A-2: Duties
1-7A-3: City Properties
1-7A-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created the department of public works, an executive department
of the city. It shall consist of the superintendent of public works, who shall
be the head of the department, and all officers and employees assigned thereto.
All such officers and employees shall perform their duties subject to the
supervision of the superintendent. (Prior code § 9-1)
1-7A-2: DUTIES:
The department of public works shall have charge of and supervision over the
care, maintenance and construction of all streets, sidewalks, alleys and public
ways; the construction, operation and maintenance of all stormwater and
sanitary sewers; and all street gutters and drains and the appurtenances
thereto. (Prior code § 9-2)
1-7A-3: CITY PROPERTIES:
   A.   All physical properties of the city not assigned to some other
department or officer shall be and are hereby assigned to the department of
public works. (Prior code § 9-3)
   B.   The superintendent of public works shall be custodian of all tools,
equipment and other personal property belonging to the city and not assigned to
the care of some other department or officer of the city. (Prior code § 9-4)
CHAPTER 7
   CITY DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE B. WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Superintendent Of Water And Sewer Systems
1-7B-2: Department Personnel
1-7B-1: SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the office of
superintendent of water and sewer systems, an executive office of the city. The
superintendent of water and sewer systems shall be appointed by the mayor, by
and with the advice and consent of the city council. (Prior code § 10-1)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The superintendent of water and sewer systems shall have charge of
the operation and maintenance of the municipal water and sewer systems. (Prior
code § 10-2)
      2.   The superintendent of water and sewer systems shall be the custodian
of all tools and property of the city pertaining to the municipal water and
sewer systems and shall be responsible for the care and custody of the same.
(Prior code § 10-4)
1-7B-2: DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL:
All officers and employees assigned to the department of water and sewer shall
perform their duties subject to the orders and under the supervision of the
superintendent of water and sewer systems. (Prior code § 10-3)
CHAPTER 7
   CITY DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE C. POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Department Created; Composition; Functions
1-7C-2: Duties Of Chief
1-7C-3: Operating Procedure
1-7C-4: Part Time Police
1-7C-5: Special Police
1-7C-6: Mayor And Aldermen As Conservators Of The Peace
1-7C-7: Prohibited Acts Of Police Officers
1-7C-8: Departmental Discipline
1-7C-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; COMPOSITION; FUNCTIONS:
There is hereby created a police department for the city, which will consist of
the chief of police and such other police as may be provided by the city
council. The chief of police and all other members of the police department
shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the city
council. The primary function of the police department is to serve the
residents of the city. Adequate protection of the life, property and rights of
all persons shall be afforded regardless of their circumstances. (Prior code §
8-1)
1-7C-2: DUTIES OF CHIEF:
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to cause the public peace to be
preserved and to enforce all ordinances of the city of which the police
department must take cognizance. He shall keep such records and make such
reports concerning the activities of the department as may be required. He
shall be responsible for the performance by the police department in all its
functions, and all members of the department shall serve subject to his order.
(Prior code § 8-2)
1-7C-3: OPERATING PROCEDURE:
The operating procedure of the police department will be established and
maintained by the mayor and police committee. Such operating procedure will
cover, besides the duties of the members, uniforms and equipment to be worn or
carried, hours of service, vacations, and all other similar matters necessary
or desirable for the better efficiency of the department. (Prior code § 8-3)
1-7C-4: PART TIME POLICE:
   A.   Employment: The city may employ part time police officers from time to
time as deemed necessary.
   B.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   If having served in the U.S. military, must have been honorably
discharged.
   C.   Training: Part time police officers shall be trained in accordance with
the Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and requirements of the
ILETSB.
   D.   Duties:
      1.   A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities of a
full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the general
orders of the city police department, but the number of hours a part time
officer may work within a calendar year is restricted.
      2.   Part time police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or
direct full time police officers.
   E.   Discipline:
      1.   Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary jurisdiction of
the chief of police.
      2.   Part time police officers serve at the discretion of the city
authorities, shall not have any property rights in said employment, and may be
removed by the city authorities at any time.
      3.   Part time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and
general orders issued by the police department. (Ord. 9-10-2012, 9-10-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
1-7C-5: SPECIAL POLICE:
Any person of good character may be appointed a special police officer. (Prior
code § 8-4; amd. 2015 Code)
1-7C-6: MAYOR AND ALDERMEN AS CONSERVATORS OF THE PEACE:
After receiving a certificate attesting to the successful completion of a
training course administered by the Illinois law enforcement training standards
board, the mayor and each alderman are hereby declared to be conservators of
the peace, with such powers as are granted by statute. (Prior code § 8-5; amd.
2015 Code)
1-7C-7: PROHIBITED ACTS OF POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   A member of the department violating any of the provisions set out in
subsection B of this section may be subject to disciplinary action.
   B.   The following acts are prohibited:
      1.   Violation Of Law: Violation or attempted violation of any federal,
state, county or municipal law.
      2.   Disobedience Of Orders: Failure to obey and fully execute any lawful
order, written or oral, given by a superior officer or employee which shall
include, but not be necessarily limited to, these rules and regulations, and
all general and special orders, policies and procedures of the department. The
term "lawful order" shall be construed as any order in keeping with the
performance of any duty prescribed by law or by these rules and regulations, or
for the preservation of good order, efficiency and proper discipline, which is
not in conflict with these rules and regulations.
      3.   Possession Or Use Of Alcohol: Possession or use of alcohol on duty
other than in any authorized duty capacity. Unless absolutely required to
conduct a police investigation, no member or employee of the department shall
be, to any degree, under the influence of alcoholic beverages while on duty.
Additionally, being intoxicated in public while off duty is prohibited. (For
purposes of this rule, a person shall be considered intoxicated if the amount
of alcohol in the person's blood attains or exceeds the level of the
presumption of being under the influence as found in the Illinois vehicle
code.)
      4.   Possession Or Use Of Controlled Substances: Possession or use on
duty of controlled substances, except with the approval and guidance of a
licensed physician of Illinois and with the knowledge of a superior. At no time
may an employee of the department use or be under the influence of a controlled
substance where such use or influence impairs or compromises the efficiency and
integrity of the department or the city.
      5.   Nonpayment Of Debts And Legal Liabilities: Failure to pay all just
debts and legal liabilities. No member or employee shall borrow any money from
or otherwise become indebted to any city official or employee, shall solicit
any city official or employees to cosign, endorse or in any way whatsoever
guarantee any promissory note or other loan, or shall offer to act as cosigner,
endorser or guarantor of any promissory note or other loan for any city
official or other member or employee of the department.
      6.   Withholding Information On Criminal Activity: Withholding
information on criminal activity.
      7.   Self-Assigned Police Action: Undertaking of self-assigned police
action. (For purposes of this subsection B7, "self- assigned" means action
undertaken at the discretion of a member of the department under less than
emergency circumstances, or action initiated by any member of the department
without the request, direction or instruction of a superior.) All emergency
self-assigned police action shall, within twenty four (24) hours after
commencement, be reported in writing to the mayor and police committee.
      8.   Prohibited Association And Frequenting: Frequenting or associating
with persons, organizations or places with a bad reputation, unless necessary
for police business, when such associating or frequenting would be detrimental
to the image of the department or the city. To this end, personal association
with persons who have been convicted of a felony within the last five (5) years
or who are under criminal investigation or indictment, or who have an open and
notorious reputation in the community for felonious activity is prohibited.
      9.   Failure To Cooperate With Police Investigation: Failure to fully
cooperate with a police investigation. (Nothing in this subsection B9 shall be
in violation of one's federal or state constitutional rights.)
      10.   Firearms Use And Display: Drawing or displaying a firearm in any
place except for necessary inspection or use. Officers firing a gun
accidentally or intentionally, except on a target range, shall report same in
writing to the mayor and police committee.
      11.   Public Criticism Of Department: Public criticism of the department,
its policies or members by talking, writing or expressing in any manner, where
such talking, writing, or expression:
         a.   Is defamatory;
         b.   Is obscene;
         c.   Is unlawful;
         d.   Tends to impair the operation of the department by impairing its
efficiency;
         e.   Interferes with the ability of supervisors to maintain
discipline; or
         f.   Has been made with reckless disregard for truth or falsity.
      12.   Divulgence Of Departmental Business: Discussion of the operations
and official business of the department without the permission of a superior.
      13.   Department Correspondence: Entering into official department
correspondence with anyone or any agency outside the department, except with
the approval of the mayor. All official department communications, by telephone
or otherwise, outside the city without the permission of a superior are
prohibited.
      14.   Political Utilization Of Official Position: Utilization of one's
official position with the department for political purposes. To this end, the
use of one's official position for a nonduty related involvement in any
election is prohibited. Nothing in this subsection B14 should be construed to
prohibit a member of the department from, as a private citizen:
         a.   Exercising the right of suffrage;
         b.   Casting a vote or expressing one's opinions privately;
         c.   Being a delegate to or a member of a political caucus; or
         d.   Taking part in political canvass.
      15.   Notices:
         a.   Destroying or defacing any official written notice relating to
police business.
         b.   Posting or circulating any notices of a nonofficial, derogatory
character relating to any person, group or police activity.
      16.   Improper Personal Appearance: Having an appearance which adversely
reflects upon the city and department. To this end, the failure to have a neat,
clean appearance, the wearing of an improper uniform, failure to carry all
necessary police equipment, or to maintain one's uniform and equipment in good
order is prohibited.
      17.   Improper Professional Image: Failure to work diligently or with a
bearing consistent with the image of a professional police officer, said
conduct to include, but not necessarily limited to:
         a.   Unnecessary shouting or using obscene language;
         b.   Tardiness in reporting for work;
         c.   Conducting personal business while on duty;
         d.   Sleeping, loafing, or being idle while on duty;
         e.   Taking excessively long meals or breaks;
         f.   Failure to respond promptly to a request for police service;
         g.   Failure to return promptly to service after handling a call for
police service;
         h.   Lack of courtesy to an individual, either on the phone or in
person; and (Prior code § 8-6)
         i.   Illegal gambling, unless to further legitimate police purposes.
(Prior code § 8-6; amd. 2015 Code)
      18.   Use Of Excessive Force: Use of force which is excessive to
accomplish one's lawful purpose. To this end, all prisoners shall be treated
humanely and with regard to their legal rights.
      19.   Recommendations Of Attorneys Or Bondsmen: Recommendation to any
suspect or prisoner of the retention of a specific attorney, law firm, bail
bondsman or bonding company. This does not apply to reference to the public
defender, legal aid society, or a lawyer's reference service.
      20.   Failure To Carry Weapon And Identification: Failure to carry one's
gun and department identification in Illinois. This rule should not be
construed to apply when an officer is at home or when it is impractical to
carry said items. The carrying or possession of a firearm in any place other
than one's own home when alcoholic beverages are consumed by the one carrying
the firearm is strictly prohibited. This rule shall not apply where the
carrying of a firearm is necessitated by police business and with the approval
of a superior officer.
      21.   Department Property: Loss or damage to department property due to
negligence or inattention to duty, or the failure to promptly report to the
mayor or his designated agent of such loss or damage. Additionally, officers
shall return all equipment owned by the department when they retire, resign, or
otherwise leave the department, and they shall return any police equipment when
ordered to do so because of suspension or other absence from work.
      22.   Unauthorized Persons In Police Vehicles: Allowing unauthorized
persons to ride in police vehicles. Unauthorized persons are those who are not
police personnel, prisoners, or on official (authorized) police business.
      23.   Failure To Read, Understand And Comply With Orders: Failure to
read, understand or comply with all rules and regulations, general and special
orders, policies and procedures of the department, or with written or verbal
orders of a superior. To this end, it shall be considered to be neglect of duty
to fail to inquire of a superior, until the matter is resolved, any question as
to the meaning or application of any law, rule or regulation, general or
special order, policy or procedure, or written or verbal order.
      24.   Receipt Of Personal Correspondence At Station: Consistently
receiving personal mail or visitors at the police station, or utilization of
departmental telecommunication equipment for nonduty related purposes.
      25.   Unprofessional Courtroom Demeanor: Unprofessional courtroom
demeanor. For purposes of this subsection B25, officers should be punctual,
properly dressed and prepared, including consultation with the prosecutor and
processing pertinent police reports, notes and evidence. At all times, members
of the department shall maintain a respectful attitude toward the court and
counsel. Should one be requested or subpoenaed to testify for the defense in
any trial or hearing, or against the city or department in any hearing or
trial, the one requested or subpoenaed shall so notify the mayor in writing.
      26.   Being Untruthful Or Uncooperative: Testifying, making reports or
conducting police business in a less than truthful and cooperative manner.
      27.   Tampering With Department Records: Stealing, altering, forging or
tampering with any kind of police record, report or citation. To this end, the
removal of any record, card, report, letter, document or other file from the
department, except by process of law or as directed by the mayor, police
committee or a superior, is prohibited. Additionally, the obtaining or
duplicating, or the attempted obtaining or duplicating, of any information from
department files, sources or reports, other than that to which one is properly
entitled to in accordance with one's duties and assignments, is prohibited.
      28.   Failure To Notify Of Illness; Unauthorized Leave: Failure to notify
a superior officer when one becomes ill and cannot report for work, or when
there is any change in one's physical or mental health that could disqualify
the individual from being employed by the department. Additionally, the use of
sick leave without just cause, false statement, or the furnishing of any false
information with reference thereto by any member or employee of the department
is strictly prohibited.
      29.   Unauthorized Absence From Work: Absence from work without
permission, or abstaining wholly or in part from the full performance of one's
duties in one's normal manner without permission. To this end, employees
claiming physical or mental incapacity relating to their employment shall honor
the request of the mayor or his designated agent to be periodically interviewed
as to the nature and extent of a claimed injury or illness and to submit to an
examination of the claimed physical or mental incapacity by an individual
chosen by the mayor or his designated agent. The examining party must be
licensed by the state of Illinois to conduct such examinations, and the results
of the examination shall be made totally available, both to the mayor and to
the employee. Failure to honor such a request of the mayor or his designated
agent shall be in violation of this rule.
      30.   No Personal Telephone; Failure To Provide New Address: Failure to
maintain a telephone at one's residence or to immediately notify the mayor of
any change of address or telephone number.
      31.   Commercial Utilization Of Enforcement Authority: Utilization of the
enforcement authority granted or approved by the city, where one is
compensated, directly or indirectly, for exercising the enforcement authority
for commercial as opposed to official purposes, except as authorized in writing
by the mayor or police committee.
      32.   Off Duty Employment: Off duty employment without the knowledge and
approval of the mayor. The approval of the mayor shall be based upon: a)
increasing off duty efficiency and availability; b) avoiding potential
conflicts of interest and protecting the image of the department; and c)
avoiding impairment of on duty performance. All outside employment activity in
the capacity of a law enforcement officer will be considered as regular law
enforcement work and will be carried out in compliance with these rules and
regulations and the operating procedure of the department.
      33.   Solicitation Or Acceptance Of Gifts: Soliciting or accepting any
gift or gratuity from a host or donor, if the employee knows or has reason to
believe that the host or donor is seeking to influence the performance of any
official duty, has an interest with which may be substantially affected by the
performance of an official duty, has a substantial interest in an enterprise
which is licensed or regulated by the city, or has a pending matter before the
city or the judiciary.
      34.   Improper Conduct On Or Off Duty: Engaging in conduct, on or off
duty, which adversely affects the morale or efficiency of the department, or in
the alternative, engaging in conduct, on or off duty, which has a tendency to
destroy public respect for the employee and the department, or to destroy
confidence in the operation of the city service.
      35.   Neglect Of Duty: Neglect of duty. To this end, there shall be no
failure to give suitable attention to the performance of duty. Examples
include, but are not necessarily limited to:
         a.   Failure to take appropriate action on the occasion of a criminal
offense, disorder or other act or condition deserving police attention;
         b.   Absence without leave;
         c.   Failure to report to duty at the time and place designated;
         d.   Unnecessary absence from one's assignment during a tour of duty;
         e.   Failure to perform duties or comply with any rule or regulation,
or general or special order; or
         f.   Failure to conform to department operating policies and
procedures.
      36.   Failure To Promptly Perform Duties: Failure to promptly perform as
directed all lawful duties required by constituted authority, notwithstanding
the general assignment of duties and responsibilities.
      37.   Insubordination: Insubordination which shall include, but not be
necessarily limited to, any failure or deliberate refusal to obey a lawful
order given by a superior, or any disrespectful, mutinous, insolent or abusive
language or action toward a superior, whether in or out of the presence of the
superior.
      38.   Unauthorized Dealings In Valuable Items: Buying, receiving or
selling anything of value from or to any complainant, suspect, witness,
defendant, prisoner or other person in any incident involving the department,
except as may be specifically authorized by the mayor.
      39.   Solicitation Of Favorable Acts: Soliciting anyone to intercede with
any elected or appointed official in relation to promotions, departmental
assignment, disposition of pending charges or findings on a disciplinary
proceeding. Nothing in this subsection B39 shall be construed to be applicable
to licensed attorneys at law of the state of Illinois when representing an
employee or member of the department.
      40.   Failure To Report Misconduct: Failure to report a fellow department
member or employee's violation of a law, rule or regulation, policy or
procedure, or general or special order. To this end, all such violations shall
be reported in writing to the mayor.
      41.   Lack Of Good Physical Or Mental Condition: Lack of maintenance of
good physical and mental condition which interferes with the proper handling of
departmental business.
      42.   Termination Of Duty Or Assignment: Termination of duty or
assignment, unless properly relieved or dismissed by constituted authority.
      43.   Possession Of Unauthorized Keys: Possession of keys pertaining to
department business or obtained under department authority, not one's own,
without the approval of the mayor.
      44.   Failure To Cooperate With Internal Investigations: Failure to
answer questions, to respond to lawful orders, or to render material and
relevant statements in any internal department investigation when such orders,
questions and statements are directly related to job responsibilities. Nothing
in this subsection B44 shall be construed as to be in violation of one's
federal or state constitutional rights.
      45.   Participation In Unauthorized Civil Matters: Giving depositions,
affidavits or appearing as a witness in a civil matter stemming from one's
official duties as a department member without the knowledge of the mayor.
      46.   Leaving City While On Duty: Going beyond the city limits while on
duty, unless in the performance of actual police duty or upon the direct order
of a superior.
      47.   Failure To Render Aid Or Furnish Identification: Failure to render
aid or furnish information as is consistent with one's duty. To this end, a
department member or employee shall furnish one's name and identification in a
respectful manner when so requested.
      48.   Failure To Secure Recovered Property Or Evidentiary Material:
Failure to safely secure all lost, stolen, recovered, abandoned or evidentiary
material which comes into the possession of a department member as a result of
the performance of departmental duties. To this end, all such material shall be
secured in the police department at the completion of the tour of duty during
which the material came into the possession of the member of the department.
      49.   Acceptance Of Fees Or Rewards: Acceptance or receipt of any fee or
reward from any source for any services rendered in the line of duty without
the knowledge and written consent of the mayor.
      50.   Fighting Or Quarreling: Fighting or quarreling with another member
of the department.
      51.   Allowing Escapes: Allowing a suspect or prisoner to escape from
custody due to negligence or inattention to duty.
      52.   Failure To Carry Out General Responsibilities At Crime Scene Or In
Making Arrests: Failure to thoroughly search for, collect, preserve and
identify evidence of persons, property and locations in any arrest or
investigation.
      53.   Unauthorized Serving As Character Witness: Giving testimony as a
character witness for any defendant in a criminal trial without the knowledge
of the mayor.
      54.   Failure To Register Personal Police Equipment: Failure to register
with the mayor and police committee the description and serial numbers of all
personal police equipment owned or carried.
      55.   Unauthorized Settlement Of Duty Incurred Expenses Or Damages:
Acceptance from any person of money or other compensation for damages sustained
or expenses incurred in the line of duty without first notifying the mayor in
writing.
      56.   Duplication Of Police Identification: Duplicating, trading or
exchanging police identification without the knowledge and consent of the mayor
and police committee.
      57.   Private Benefit From Departmental Association: Use of the prestige
or influence of one's official position, or the use of the time, facilities,
equipment or supplies of the department, for the private gain or advantage to
oneself or another.
      58.   Unnecessary Complaints: Making a vexatious or unnecessary complaint
against a fellow member of the department.
      59.   Use Of Private Vehicles Or Equipment: Use of private vehicles or
equipment for official purposes, unless directed or authorized to do so by the
mayor and police committee.
      60.   Failure To Submit Reports: Failure to promptly submit such reports
as are required in the performance of one's duties or by constituted authority.
(Prior code § 8-6)
1-7C-8: DEPARTMENTAL DISCIPLINE:
   A.   Authority To Discipline: Final departmental disciplinary authority and
responsibility rests with the mayor and city council. Other supervisory
personnel may take the following disciplinary measures:
      1.   Oral reprimand.
      2.   Written reprimand (subject to approval by the mayor and city
council).
      3.   Emergency suspension.
      4.   Written recommendation for other penalties.
   B.   Emergency Suspensions:
      1.   The mayor and the chair of the police committee have the authority
to impose emergency suspension, until the next business day, against a member
or employee, when it appears that such action is in the best interests of the
department.
      2.   A member or employee receiving an emergency suspension shall be
required to report to the mayor on the next business day at city hall, unless
otherwise directed by constituted authority. The supervisor imposing or
recommending the suspension shall also report to the mayor at the same time.
   C.   Reports Of Disciplinary Action:
      1.   Whenever disciplinary action is taken or recommended (except for
oral reprimand), a written report must be submitted immediately containing the
following information:
         a.   The name, rank, and present assignment of the person being
disciplined, including specific assignment and hours of assignment.
         b.   The date(s) and time(s) of the misconduct and the location(s),
indicating on or off duty.
         c.   The provision(s) of this article violated, or the common name of
the infraction.
         d.   A complete statement of the facts of the misconduct.
         e.   The punishment imposed or recommended.
         f.   The written signature and position of the preparer and the
preparer's position to the member being examined.
      2.   The report shall be distributed, as follows, by the one imposing or
recommending disciplinary action:
         a.   Original and one copy to the mayor and chair of the police
committee via the chain of command.
         b.   One copy to the subject of the report.
         c.   One copy retained by the supervisor imposing or recommending the
action.
   D.   Informing Person Being Disciplined: The member or employee being
disciplined shall be informed of the charges at the time such action is taken.
(Prior code § 8-7)
   E.   Citizen Complaints:
      1.   Citizen complaints against members or employees of the department
shall be recorded and investigated by the police committee, as soon as
possible. When the investigation cannot be completed on the date it is
received, a preliminary report will be prepared by the police committee
outlining the complaint and its actions and delivered to the mayor via the
chain of command. (Prior code § 8-7; amd. 2015 Code)
      2.   If, in the opinion of the police committee, the incident is of
sufficient gravity, the supervisor shall notify the mayor, regardless of the
hour. In addition, immediate action necessary to preserve the integrity of the
department, until arrival of the mayor, shall be taken.
   F.   Investigation, Report And Conclusion Of Alleged Misconduct:
      1.   The individual assigned the investigation of an alleged act of
misconduct on the part of a member or employee of the department shall conduct
a thorough and accurate investigation. Such investigation shall include formal
statements from all parties concerned, when necessary and pertinent, the
gathering and preservation of physical evidence pertaining to the case, and all
other information bearing on the matter.
      2.   Alleged acts of misconduct must be investigated, and the results of
the investigation must be reduced to a written report. The investigator shall
summarize the pertinent facts, including:
         a.   An abstract (summary) of the complaint or alleged act of
misconduct.
         b.   Pertinent portions of the statements of all parties to the
incident.
         c.   A description of the incident, physical evidence and other
evidence important to the case.
         d.   The observations and conclusions of the investigating officer.
      3.   All investigations of department members or employees accused of
misconduct will conclude with one of the following findings:
         a.   Unfounded: The investigation indicates that the act or acts
complained of did not occur or did not involve a department member or employee.
         b.   Exonerated: Acts did occur but were justified, lawful and proper.
         c.   Not sustained: Investigation fails to discover sufficient
evidence to clearly prove or disprove the allegations made in the complaint.
         d.   Sustained: The investigation disclosed sufficient evidence to
clearly prove the allegations made in the complaint.
   G.   Appropriate Disciplinary Action: Appropriate disciplinary action, if
required, will be recommended by the investigator in accordance with the
following guide: The report will be forwarded, via the chain of command, to the
mayor and police committee with each member in the chain indicating his
approval or disapproval, and attaching any remarks or observations bearing on
the case.
   H.   Penalties: The following penalties may be assessed against any member
or employee of the department, as disciplinary action:
      1.   Oral reprimand.
      2.   Written reprimand.
      3.   Voluntary surrender of time off in lieu of other action.
      4.   Voluntary surrender of accumulated overtime in lieu of other action.
      5.   Suspension.
      6.   Dismissal from the service. (Prior code § 8-7)
CHAPTER 8
   CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Election And Term
1-8A-2: Bond
1-8A-3: Duties
1-8A-4: Vacancy In Office
1-8A-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
The city clerk shall be elected and serve for a four (4) year term and until
his successor is elected and qualified, as provided by statute. (Prior code §
5-1)
1-8A-2: BOND:
Before entering the duties of his office, the city clerk shall execute a bond
in such amount as is provided by statute, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of his duties. (Prior code § 5-2)
1-8A-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Signature: The city clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the
city and all licenses, permits and such other documents as shall require this
formality. (Prior code § 5-3)
   B.   Monies Collected: The clerk shall turn over all monies received by him
on behalf of the city to the city treasurer promptly upon receipt of the same;
and with such monies, he shall give a statement as to the source thereof.
(Prior code § 5-4)
   C.   Accounts: The clerk shall keep accounts showing all monies received by
him and the source and disposition thereof, and such other accounts as may be
required by statute or ordinance. (Prior code § 5-5)
   D.   Records: In addition to the record of ordinances and other records
which the clerk is required by statute to keep, he shall keep a register of all
licenses and permits issued and the payments thereon; a record showing all of
the officers and regular employees of the city; and such other records as may
be required by the city council. (Prior code § 5-6)
   E.   Seal: The clerk shall be the custodian of the city seal and shall affix
its impression on documents whenever this is required. (Prior code § 5-7)
   F.   Documents: The clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging
to the city which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer. (Prior
code § 5-8)
   G.   Indices: The clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to all
documents and records kept by him, so that ready access thereto and use thereof
may be had. (Prior code § 5-9)
   H.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties herein provided, the clerk
shall perform such other duties and functions as may be required by statute or
ordinance. (Prior code § 5-10)
1-8A-4: VACANCY IN OFFICE:
In case the office of city clerk shall be vacant for any reason, the mayor
shall appoint a successor as provided by statute. (Prior code § 5-11)
CHAPTER 8
   CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Election And Term
1-8B-2: Bond
1-8B-3: Duties
1-8B-4: Warrants
1-8B-5: Ex Officio Collector
1-8B-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
The city treasurer shall be elected to serve for a four (4) year term and until
his successor is elected and qualified, as provided by statute. (Prior code §
6-1)
1-8B-2: BOND:
The city treasurer shall give a bond, before entering upon the duties of his
office, in the sum required by the city council, but the amount shall not be
less than that required by statute. This bond shall be conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties by the treasurer, and shall be conditioned
to indemnify the city for any loss by reason of any neglect of duty or any act
of the treasurer. (Prior code § 6-3)
1-8B-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The city treasurer shall perform such duties as may be
prescribed for him by statute or ordinance. He shall receive all monies paid
into the city, either directly from the person paying the money or from the
hands of such other officer or employee as may receive it, and he shall pay out
money only on vouchers or orders properly signed by the mayor and clerk, as
hereinafter set forth. (Prior code § 6-4)
   B.   Deposit Of Funds: The city treasurer shall deposit the city funds in
such depositories as may be selected from time to time as provided by law; and
he shall keep the deposit of the city money separate and distinct from his own
money, and shall not make private or personal use of any city money. (Prior
code § 6-5)
   C.   Records: The city treasurer shall keep records showing all monies
received by him, showing the source from which received and the purpose for
which paid, and he shall keep records at all times showing the financial status
of the city. (Prior code § 6-6)
   D.   Accounts: The city treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may
be required by statute or ordinance, and he shall keep them in the manner
required by the city council. (Prior code § 6-7)
   E.   Reports: The treasurer shall make monthly reports to the city council
showing the state of the finances of the city, and the amounts received and
spent during the month. He shall also make or cause to be made an annual report
at the close of each fiscal year with the total amount of all receipts and
expenditures of the city and his transactions during the preceding year. (Prior
code § 6-9)
1-8B-4: WARRANTS:
All warrants drawn upon the treasurer must be signed by the mayor and
countersigned by the clerk, stating the particular fund or appropriation to
which the same is chargeable, and the person to whom payable. (Prior code § 6-
8)
1-8B-5: EX OFFICIO COLLECTOR:
The city treasurer shall be ex officio collector and shall perform all the
duties of that office. (Prior code § 6-2)
CHAPTER 8
   CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-8C-2: Duties
1-8C-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of city attorney, an executive office of the
city. The attorney, and an assistant city attorney if deemed advisable, shall
be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the city
council. (Prior code § 7-1)
1-8C-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Suits And Actions: The attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all
suits or action at law or equity to which the city may be a party, or in which
it may be interested, or which may be brought against or by any officer of the
city on behalf of the city. (Prior code § 7-2)
   B.   Judgments: It shall be the duty of the attorney to see to the full
enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the
city. (Prior code § 7-3)
   C.   Advice: The attorney shall be the legal advisor of the city, and shall
render advice on all legal questions affecting the city whenever requested to
do so by any city official. Upon request by the mayor or by the city council,
he shall reduce any such opinion to writing. (Prior code § 7-4)
   D.   Ordinances And Documents: It shall be the duty of the attorney to draft
or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or other documents or
instruments to which the city may be a party and, upon the request of the city
council, to draft ordinances covering any subject within the power of the city.
(Prior code § 7-5)
   E.   Council Meetings: It shall be the duty of the attorney to attend
meetings of the city council, and at all such meetings, on all questions,
resolutions or motions before the city council affecting the legal rights or
liabilities of the city, or of any of its departments or officers, he shall be
entitled to all the privileges of an alderman, except the privilege of voting.
(Prior code § 7-6)
CHAPTER 9
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-9-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Interpretation
1-9-4: Prohibited Acts
1-9-5: Penalties
1-9-6: Amendments
1-9-7: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-9-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/5-15 and 430/10-10 through
430/10-40 of the state officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this
chapter), are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers
and employees of the city to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 430/70-5. (2015 Code)
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (2015 Code)
1-9-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a). (2015 Code)
1-9-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the act by any officer or any employee of the city is hereby
prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the city under the act is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act by any officer or employee of the city is hereby
prohibited. (2015 Code)
1-9-5: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act. (2015 Code)
1-9-6: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by the city shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the city. (2015
Code)
1-9-7: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if the act is found unconstitutional by
the Illinois supreme court.
   B.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this chapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the city. (2015
Code)
CHAPTER 10
   TAX REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
1-10A-1: Title
1-10A-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
1-10A-3: Definitions
1-10A-4: Notice Requirements
1-10A-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
1-10A-6: Application Of Tax Payments
1-10A-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-10A-8: Audit Procedure
1-10A-9: Appeals
1-10A-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
1-10A-11: Installment Contracts
1-10A-12: Statute Of Limitations
1-10A-13: Voluntary Disclosure
1-10A-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
1-10A-15: Review Of Liens
1-10A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES ORDINANCE. (2015 Code)
1-10A-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this article shall apply to the city
procedures in connection with all of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This article shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the city tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this article, this article shall be controlling. (2015 Code)
1-10A-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms used in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to
them as follows:
   ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act" 1 .
   CITY: The city of Toluca, Illinois.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The mayor and city council.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city clerk is charged with the administration
and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the local tax
administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The local tax
administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this article
to give full effect to this article. The exercise of such authority by the
local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this article and the
act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by city that
is collected or administered by the city and not an agency or department of the
state. The term does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city.
   NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city. (2015 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
1-10A-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the person
concerned at the person's last known address; or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (2015 Code)
1-10A-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the city
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the city on or before the due date; or b) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city, with adequate postage
prepaid. (2015 Code)
1-10A-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first, to the tax due for the applicable period; second, to
the interest due for the applicable period; and third, to the penalty for the
applicable period. (2015 Code)
1-10A-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The city shall not refund or credit any taxes
voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the event
that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in
which payment in error was made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of
locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who
has not paid the amounts directly to the city.
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (2015 Code)
1-10A-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this article.
   A.   Information Required: Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
thirty (30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the city.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer or
tax collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the
time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30)
days of the city determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (2015 Code)
1-10A-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator's
issuance or a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written
protest and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date
convenient to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the local tax
administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest
and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days
after the expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      3.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (2015 Code)
1-10A-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing
a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file
penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (2015 Code)
1-10A-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (2015 Code)
1-10A-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or, if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   D.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (2015 Code)
1-10A-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (2015 Code)
1-10A-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the city
clerk's office. (2015 Code)
1-10A-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the city's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (2015
Code)
CHAPTER 10
   TAX REGULATIONS
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL UTILITIES TAXES
SECTION:
1-10B-1: Definitions
1-10B-2: Taxes Levied; Rates
1-10B-3: Exemptions From Taxes
1-10B-4: Collection Of Taxes
1-10B-5: Records Required
1-10B-6: Rendition Of Bills
1-10B-7: Credits For Erroneous Payments
1-10B-8: Statute Of Limitations
1-10B-9: Penalties
1-10B-1: DEFINITIONS:
   COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL USER: The owner or tenant of property used for
commercial or industrial purposes, including the owners of apartment buildings
and trailer courts receiving utility service through master meters.
   PERSON: Shall include any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited
liability company, municipal corporation, the state or any of its political
subdivisions, any state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee,
guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
   PUBLIC UTILITY: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 3-105 of
the public utilities act and shall include alternative retail electric
suppliers as defined in section 16-102 of that act. Further, public utility
shall include residential, commercial and industrial natural gas services
provided and used within the city of Toluca, Marshall County, Illinois.
   PURCHASER: Shall include any "person", as defined herein, who uses or
consumes within the corporate limits of the city, electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail.
   RESIDENTIAL USERS: The owner or tenant of any private residential property,
or the tenant of any multi-family residential unit, who is responsible for the
payment of utility services for said property.
   SELLER: Shall include any "person", as defined herein, who sells or
furnishes electrical services and residential, commercial and industrial
natural gas consumption services. (Ord. 2010-2, 4-12-2010, eff. 6-1-2010; amd.
2015 Code)
1-10B-2: TAXES LEVIED; RATES:
Beginning June 1, 2010, and continuing thereafter unless otherwise changed,
there is hereby imposed and levied by the city upon each and every purchaser of
a public utility service, a tax for said general purposes in the following
amounts:
   A.   Electricity: Pursuant to section 8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code
and any and all other applicable authority, a tax is hereby imposed upon the
privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail,
and not for resale, and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
city at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed In A Month Cents Per Kilowatt Hour
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed In A Month        Cents Per Kilowatt Hour
First 2,000                                       $ 0.61
For the next 48,000                               0.40
For the next 50,000                               0.36
For the next 400,000                              0.35
For the next 500,000                              0.34
For the next 2,000,000                            0.32
For the next 2,000,000                            0.315
For the next 5,000,000                            0.31
For the next 10,000,000                           0.305
For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 0.30
20,000,000
 
   B.   Gas: Pursuant to section 8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code and any
and all other applicable authority, a tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege
of using or consuming natural gas acquired in a purchase at retail, and not for
resale, and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the city at a rate
not to exceed five percent (5%) of the gross receipts therefrom. (Ord. 2010-2,
4-12-2010, eff. 6-1-2010)
1-10B-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAXES:
   A.   The United States Of America, the state of Illinois and the political
subdivisions, boards, commissions and authorities thereof, any other
governmental agencies, special districts, park districts, the city of Toluca
and any school district are all hereby exempted from the payment of the tax
imposed and levied by this article. (Ord. 2010-2, 4-12-2010, eff. 6-1-2010)
   B.   None of the taxes authorized by this article may be imposed with
respect to any transactions in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent
to which the business or privilege may not, under the constitution and statutes
of the United States Of America, be made the subject of taxation by this state
or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the
business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling or transmitting gas or
electricity, or using or consuming gas or electricity acquired in a purchase at
retail, be subject to taxation under the provisions of this article for those
transactions that are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of
the "municipal retailers' occupation tax act" authorized by section 8-11-1 of
the Illinois municipal code; nor shall any tax authorized by this article be
imposed upon any person engaged in a business or on any privilege unless the
tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in
businesses of the same class in the city, whether privately or municipally
owned or operated, or exercising the same privilege within the city. (Ord.
2010-2, 4-12-2010, eff. 6-1-2010; amd. 2015 Code)
1-10B-4: COLLECTION OF TAXES:
   A.   The taxes authorized by this article shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers the electricity or natural gas to the purchaser. These taxes shall
constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity
to the purchaser and, if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the
original charge for delivering the electricity or natural gas. Any tax required
to be collected pursuant to this article and any such tax collected by a person
delivering electricity or natural gas shall constitute a debt owed to the city
by such person delivering the electricity or natural gas; provided, that the
person delivering the electricity or natural gas shall be allowed credit for
such tax related to deliveries of electricity or natural gas, the charges for
which are written off as uncollectible; and provided further that, if such
charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to
remit such tax.
   B.   Any partial payment not specifically identified by the purchaser shall
be deemed to be for the delivery of electricity or natural gas. Persons
delivering electricity or natural gas shall collect the tax from the purchaser
by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity or
natural gas in the manner prescribed by the city. Persons delivering
electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an amount
equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse the person delivering
electricity or natural gas for the expenses incurred in keeping records,
billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and
supplying data to the city upon request. If the person delivering electricity
or natural gas fails to collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser
shall be required to pay the tax directly to the city in the manner prescribed
by the city. Persons delivering electricity or natural gas who file returns
pursuant to this article shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the city
the amount of the tax collected. (Ord. 2010-2, 4-12-2010, eff. 6-1-2010)
1-10B-5: RECORDS REQUIRED:
Each seller shall keep complete records showing all purchasers in the city,
which records shall show the price charged against each purchaser with respect
to each purchase, the date thereof, and the date of payment thereof, and the
amount of tax imposed hereunder, and such records shall be kept open for
inspection by the duly authorized agents of the city during regular business
hours or business days, and the duly authorized agents of the city shall have
the right, power and authority to make such transcripts thereof during such
times as they may desire. (Ord. 2010-2, 4-12-2010, eff. 6-1-2010)
1-10B-6: RENDITION OF BILLS:
Bills shall be considered monthly bills if submitted twelve (12) times annually
for a period of approximately one month or portion thereof. In the event that
bills shall be rendered for utility services herein stated on a basis other
than one month, the taxes imposed hereby shall be computed pro rata as if such
bill was rendered on a monthly basis with the rates named herein applied. (Ord.
2010-2, 4-12-2010, eff. 6-1-2010)
1-10B-7: CREDITS FOR ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this article, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this article from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord. 2010-2, 4-
12-2010, eff. 6-1-2010)
1-10B-8: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this article
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 2010-2, 4-12-2010, eff. 6-1-2010)
1-10B-9: PENALTIES:
Any purchaser failing, refusing or neglecting to pay the taxes imposed or
levied by this article, any seller violating the provisions of this article,
and any officer, agent or employee of any seller violating the provisions of
this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), and each
day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
violation. In addition, the purchaser shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of tax due. (Ord. 2010-2, 4-12-2010, eff. 6-1-2010; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 10
   TAX REGULATIONS
ARTICLE C. SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
1-10C-1: Tax Imposed; Rate
1-10C-2: Exemptions From Tax
1-10C-3: Collection And Enforcement Of Tax
1-10C-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
A simplified municipal telecommunications tax is hereby imposed upon the act or
privilege of originating in the city or receiving in the city intrastate or
interstate telecommunications by a person under the provisions of the
simplified municipal telecommunications act, P.A. 92-0526, at a rate of five
percent (5%) of the gross charges for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer. This section shall take effect for all gross charges
billed by telecommunications retailers on or after January 1, 2011. (Ord. 2010-
3, 4-12-2010)
1-10C-2: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
The United States Of America, the state of Illinois and the political
subdivisions, boards, commissions and authorities thereof, any other
governmental agencies, special districts, park districts, the city of Toluca
and any school district are all hereby exempted from the payment of the tax
imposed and levied by this article. (Ord. 2010-3, 4-12-2010)
1-10C-3: COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT OF TAX:
The tax hereby imposed shall be collected and enforced by the department of
revenue of the state of Illinois. The Illinois department of revenue shall have
full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this article. (Ord.
2010-3, 4-12-2010)
ARTICLE D. MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
1-10D-1: Tax Imposed; Rate
1-10D-2: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
1-10D-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the city at the rate of three
percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that
business.
   B.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-22 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22). (Ord.
2019-9-12, 9-10-2019)
1-10D-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax imposed by this article shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this article and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any State tax that sellers are required to collect.
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this article. (Ord. 2019-9-12, 9-10-2019)
CHAPTER 11
ELECTION WARDS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Wards Established
1-11-1: WARDS ESTABLISHED:
The city shall be divided into three (3) wards, designated as follows:
   A.   First Ward: The first ward shall be composed of all that portion of the
city lying north of E. Atchison Street and east of Main Street.
   B.   Second Ward: The second ward shall be composed of all that portion of
the city lying north of Santa Fe Street and west of Main Street.
   C.   Third Ward: The third ward shall be composed of all that portion of the
city lying south of Santa Fe Street, and also that portion of the city bounded
by Santa Fe Street on the south, N. Main Street on the west, and E. Atchison
Street on the north. (Prior code ch. 2)
CHAPTER 12
REIMBURSEMENT OF TRAVEL EXPENSES
SECTION:
1-12-1: Definitions
1-12-2: Reimbursement
1-12-3: City Council Approval
1-12-4: Documentation
1-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the following meanings for purposes of this
chapter:
   ENTERTAINMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
   TRAVEL: Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of a local public agency or by wards or charges of a local public
agency involving reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private
agencies providing transportation or related services. (Ord. 2016-11-15, 11-14-
2016)
1-12-2: REIMBURSEMENT:
Officers and employees shall be reimbursed for travel expenditures incurred
while traveling on official business for the city. Allowable expenses shall
include the expenses described in a travel reimbursement schedule to be adopted
by the city council, and may not exceed the maximum amounts set forth on the
travel reimbursement schedule unless approved by the city council pursuant to
section
1-12-3 of this chapter. No officer or employee of the city shall be reimbursed
for any entertainment expenses. (Ord. 2016-11-15, 11-14-2016)
1-12-3: CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL:
The following travel expenses may be approved for reimbursement only by a roll
call vote at an open meeting of the city council:
   A.   Travel expenses of any officer or employee which exceed the maximum set
forth on the travel reimbursement schedule; and
   B.   Travel expenses of the mayor or any alderman. (Ord. 2016-11-15, 11-14-
2016)
1-12-4: DOCUMENTATION:
Before any travel expense may be approved for reimbursement, the individual
requesting reimbursement shall submit to the city council a statement of travel
expenses on a form approved by the city council, together with the following
minimum documentation:
   A.   An estimate of the travel expenses if expenses have not been incurred
or a receipt for the travel expenses if the expenses have already been
incurred;
   B.   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the
reimbursement;
   C.   The job title or office of the individual who received or is requesting
the reimbursement; and
   D.   The date or dates and nature of the official business in which the
travel expenses were or will be expended. (Ord. 2016-11-15, 11-14-2016)
CHAPTER 12A
EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT POLICY
SECTION:
1-12A-1: Purpose
1-12A-2: Definitions
1-12A-3: Guidelines For Necessary Expenditures
1-12A-4: Pre-Approval For Authorized Expenditures
1-12A-5: Reimbursement Procedure For Authorized Expenditures
1-12A-6: Conflict With Laws
1-12A-1: PURPOSE:
It is a policy of the City of Toluca (the "City") to reimburse employees for
all necessary expenditures (as defined below) incurred by the employee within
the employee's scope of employment and directly related to services performed
for the City. The City is not responsible for losses due to an employee's own
negligence, losses due to normal wear or losses due to theft unless the theft
was a result of the City's negligence.
This policy was drafted using the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act 1 ,
effective January 1, 2019. (Ord. 2019-5-13, 5-13-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 115/9.5.
1-12A-2: DEFINITIONS:
   EMPLOYEE: Means an employee, officer or official of the City.
Municipal officers and officials may be subject to additional conditions or
restrictions for reimbursement of expenses related to their specific offices
and other State Statutes or local ordinances.
   NECESSARY EXPENDITURES: Means all reasonable expenditures or losses required
of the employee in the discharge of employment duties and that inure to the
primary benefit of the City, subject to the provisions of this policy. (Ord.
2019-5-13, 5-13-2019)
1-12A-3: GUIDELINES FOR NECESSARY EXPENDITURES:
Necessary expenditures include, to the extent required of the employee: cell
phone expenses, lap top, tablet, mileage, tools, equipment, internet, meals,
registration fees, training expenses, tolls and parking fees.
Necessary expenditures do not include: home internet service, personal cell
phone expenses, mileage incurred on personal vehicles, alcoholic beverages and
entertainment expenses.
Any expenditure that is not requested and approved prior to purchase shall not
be considered a necessary expenditure and may not be reimbursed.
Reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging expenses incurred by an employee is
guided by chapter 12, "Reimbursement Of Travel Expenses", of this title adopted
pursuant to the Local Government Travel Expense Control Act 1 . (Ord. 2019-5-
13, 5-13-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 150/1 et seq.
1-12A-4: PRE-APPROVAL FOR AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES:
An employee shall submit a written request to purchase any necessary
expenditure at least three (3) business days in advance of incurring the
expense on the "Expense Reimbursement Form" on file in the City. Following
approval of the expense, the employee will be reimbursed as provided in the
following section. If the expense is not approved following a written request,
the employee will not be entitled to reimbursement.
In the event that an expense is not pre-approved, reimbursement will be subject
to the discretion of the appropriate City official. (Ord. 2019-5-13, 5-13-2019)
1-12A-5: REIMBURSEMENT PROCEDURE FOR AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES:
An employee shall submit an "Expense Reimbursement Form", on file in the City,
along with appropriate supporting documentation not later than thirty (30)
calendar days after incurring the expense. Where supporting documentation is
nonexistent, missing or lost, the employee shall submit a signed statement
regarding any such receipts.
An employee may not be entitled to reimbursement if the employee has failed to
comply with this Expense Reimbursement Policy. (Ord. 2019-5-13, 5-13-2019)
1-12A-6: CONFLICT WITH LAWS:
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this policy and the
provisions of any State or Federal law, the provisions of State or Federal law
shall control. (Ord. 2019-5-13, 5-13-2019)
CHAPTER 13
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
1-13-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-13-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
1-13-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
1-13-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-13-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-13-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
1-13-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts have
determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title VII
of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a
right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment
is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual
orientations. It is a policy of the City of Toluca, Illinois to prohibit
harassment of any person by any municipal official, municipal agent, municipal
employee, municipal agency or municipal office on the basis of sex or gender.
All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal
agencies or municipal offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any
person, regardless of any employment relationship or lack thereof. (Ord. 2020-
11-10, 11-9-2020)
1-13-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
   A.   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made a term or condition of an
individual's employment, either explicitly or implicitly; or
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   B.   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes, but is not
limited to:
      1.   Verbal Harassment: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults,
humor, jokes about: sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual
propositions, threats, repeated requests for dates; or, statements of a sexual
nature about other employees, even outside of their presence.
      2.   Non-verbal Harassment: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling),
leering, obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls,"
"smacking" or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical Harassment: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing,
pinching, brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      5.   Textual/Electronic Harassment: "sexting" (electronically sending
messages with sexual content, including pictures or video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (email/text/picture/video messages, intranet/online
postings, blogs, instant messages and posts on social network websites, like
Facebook and Twitter).
The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to determine.
On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more subtle and
depends, to some extent, on individual perception and interpretation. The
courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what would offend a
"reasonable person. (Ord. 2020-11-10, 11-9-2020)
1-13-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/himself
to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s) as
directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   A.   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassment
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact with Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
director of human resources, an ethics officer, the city manager or
administrator or the chief elected official of the municipality.
      The employee experiencing what she/he believes to be sexual harassment
must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no
witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible
officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the
harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within three hundred (300) days
of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with
the EEOC must also be filed within three hundred (300) days.
      4.   Allegations of Sexual Harassment made against an elected official of
the governmental unit by another elected official of a governmental unit: In
addition to the methods of reporting included above, an elected official may
request an independent review of a complaint of sexual harassment by another
elected official. The request shall be made to the human resources director,
the city manager or administrator or the chief elected official of the
municipality. The official receiving the request shall take immediate action in
keeping with the procurement process of the municipality to retain a qualified
individual or entity for the independent review of the allegations of sexual
harassment in violation of this policy. The outcome of the independent review
shall be reported to the corporate authorities.
   B.   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the location), including, but not
limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone
messages.
   C.   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Ord. 2020-
11-10, 11-9-2020)
1-13-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
   A.   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal office shall take any retaliatory action against any municipal
employee or official due to a municipal employee's or official's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy;
or
      2.   Providing information related to an investigation or testimony
before any public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any
violation of this policy; or
      3.   Assistance with or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   B.   For purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer or change in
the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that is taken
in retaliation for a municipal employee's or official's involvement in
protected activity pursuant to this policy.
   C.   No individual making a report will be retaliated against, even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   D.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action, and this policy prohibits
retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy or practice of any officer, member, agency or other
employee that the employee reasonably believes is in violation of a law, rule
or regulation; or
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule or regulation by any officer, member, agency or other employee; or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act or this policy.
   E.   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer may
not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, before a legislative commission or committee or in any
other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule or regulation. (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
   F.   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is a
civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to conspire to
retaliate against a person because she/he has opposed that which she/he
reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because she/he has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted or
participated in an investigation, proceeding or hearing under the Illinois
Human Rights Act.
   G.   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed
over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge within three hundred (300) days of the alleged retaliation.
(Ord. 2020-11-10, 11-9-2020)
1-13-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements, any person who violates this policy or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be subject
to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000) per offense, applicable
disciplinary actions or discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines
and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal
law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed
by the municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by
an ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency. (Ord. 2020-11-10, 11-9-2020)
1-13-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
   A.   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser to
accomplish an outcome other than stopping sexual harassment or stopping
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is not a report
made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the
consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense
that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of this policy shall
be subject to disciplinary action or discharge pursuant to applicable municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
   B.   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging
a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an ethics commission, an inspector general, the Illinois State Police, a
State's Attorney, the Attorney General or any other law enforcement official is
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000) against any person
who intentionally makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 2020-
11-10, 11-9-2020)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Board Of Health   1
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF HEALTH
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Created; Composition; Appointment And Term
2-1-2: Commissioner Of Health
2-1-3: Inspections
2-1-4: Nuisance Conditions
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
There is hereby created and established a board of health, to consist of three
(3) members in addition to the mayor who shall serve as an ex officio member of
the board. The three (3) members shall be the chief of police, a licensed and
practicing physician in the city, and one other person. All shall be appointed
by the mayor, with the consent of the city council, and shall hold office
during the municipal year in which they are appointed. (Prior code § 11-1; amd.
2015 Code)
2-1-2: COMMISSIONER OF HEALTH:
   A.   Chief Of Police Serve As: Unless provided otherwise, the chief of
police shall act as commissioner of health. (Prior code § 11-2)
   B.   Duties: The commissioner of health shall exercise a general supervision
over the health of the city, and it shall be his duty to see that all
ordinances and regulations pertaining to health made by the city are properly,
impartially and speedily enforced. (Prior code § 11-3)
2-1-3: INSPECTIONS:
Whenever, in the opinion of the board of health, sanitary conditions require
it, any member or members of the board are hereby authorized and empowered to
enter any dwelling, public building, place of business or amusement to examine
into the sanitary condition thereof. (Prior code § 11-4)
2-1-4: NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
   A.   Nuisances Declared; Abatement Required: Any condition dangerous or
detrimental to the public health existing anywhere within the city is hereby
declared to be a nuisance, and the owner, occupant or agent of the premises
where the same is situated, upon notice, shall forthwith proceed to abate the
same without unnecessary delay. (Prior code § 11-5)
   B.   Abatement By City; Costs: The board of health shall have the power,
when any person fails or refuses to abate or remove a nuisance when ordered to
do so by the board of health, to cause the same to be abated and removed, and
it may proceed to prosecute such person for the penalty provided in this code.
In addition, the board, in its discretion, may institute a suit for the
recovery of the sum of money required to abate and remove such nuisance. (Prior
code § 11-6)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
Alcoholic Beverages   1
Peddlers, Solicitors And Canvassers      2
Fair Housing   3
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Required
3-1-3: Ineligibility For License
3-1-4: Application For License
3-1-5: Classification Of Licenses; Fees
3-1-6: Term Of License; Payment Of Fees
3-1-7: Nontransferability Of License
3-1-8: License Renewals
3-1-9: Change Of Location
3-1-10: Closing Hours
3-1-11: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited
3-1-12: Minors
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of
this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured
alcohol produced in accordance with acts of congress and regulations
promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one
percent (0.5%) or less of alcohol by volume.
   CATERER RETAILER: A person who serves alcoholic liquors for consumption,
either on site or off site, whether the location is licensed or not, as an
incidental part of food service. Prepared meals and alcoholic liquors are sold
at a package price agreed upon under contract.
   MAYOR: The mayor of the city of Toluca, acting as liquor control
commissioner of the city, as provided by statute.
   PERSON: A person, firm, partnership, club, association or corporation.
   RETAIL SALES: The sale for use and consumption and not for resale. (Ord., 4-
2-2002; amd. 2015 Code)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall keep or offer for sale at retail or conduct any place for the
sale at retail of alcoholic liquors within the corporate limits of the city
without having a valid license to do so, issued by the mayor, as hereinafter
provided. (Ord., 4-2-2002)
3-1-3: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
No license shall be issued to any person ineligible therefor by the terms of
235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-2 (liquor control act), or any similar
statute. However, the residency requirement of said statute shall not apply in
the case of a corporation. (Ord., 4-2-2002)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring to sell, keep or offer for sale at retail, or conduct any
place for the sale at retail, of alcoholic liquors within the corporate limits
of the city shall make written application to the mayor upon the form provided.
(Ord., 4-2-2002)
3-1-5: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES:
There are hereby established the following license classifications and fees for
the sale at retail of alcoholic liquors within the city:
   A.   Class A License: Class A license, which shall authorize the retail sale
of alcoholic liquors to be consumed on the premises. In addition, a class A
license shall allow a person to purchase packaged goods and remove said
packaged goods from the premises with the seal unbroken. The annual fee for
such license shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   B.   Class A-1 License: Class A-1 license, commonly known as a "caterer
retail license", which shall allow the holder of a Class A license and this
license to serve alcoholic liquors as an incidental part of a food service that
serves prepared meals which excludes the serving of snacks as the primary meal,
either on or off site. The annual fee for such license shall be fifty dollars
($50.00).
   C.   Class B License: Class B license, which shall authorize the retail sale
by not for profit organizations of alcoholic liquors to be consumed on the
premises. The annual fee for such license shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00).
   D.   Class C License: Class C license, which shall entitle the licensee to
sell beer and wine in the original package, seal not to be broken on the
premises. A Class C license shall be a packaged goods license in which
purchases made under the license may be removed from the premises with the seal
unbroken. The annual fee for such license shall be four hundred dollars
($400.00).
   E.   Class D License: Class D license, which shall authorize the retail sale
of beer and wine only by not for profit organizations, to be consumed only on
the premises specified. This license shall be issued for a set number of days.
The fee for such license shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per day, with a minimum
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   F.   Class E License: Class E license, which shall entitle the licensee to
make consumption sales of alcoholic liquor; provided, that this classification
may only be issued to a club. A "club" is defined as a not for profit
corporation organized under the laws of this State solely for the promotion of
some common object (other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors),
and kept, used and maintained by its members through the payment of annual
dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space in a building of such
use and accommodation of its members and their guests. The license shall also
be subject to the terms of the applicable Statute of the State of Illinois 1 .
The annual fee for such license shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00). (Ord.,
4-2-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. Currently 235 ILCS 5/1-3.24.
3-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE; PAYMENT OF FEES:
Except for Class D licenses, each license shall terminate on the Tuesday after
the second Monday in May next following the date of issuance. Any license fee
must be paid in advance; however, Class A and C license fees may be paid in two
(2) equal semiannual installments. If the term of the license is for less than
one year, the fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full
calendar months which have expired in the year prior to issuance. (Ord., 4-2-
2002)
3-1-7: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good only for the term issued,
and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily. (Ord., 4-2-2002)
3-1-8: LICENSE RENEWALS:
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof; provided, that he
is then qualified to receive a license. However said renewal privilege shall
not be considered as a vested right. (Ord., 4-2-2002)
3-1-9: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
A license issued hereunder shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquors only on
the premises described in the application and license. Such location may be
changed only upon written permission of the Mayor, and provided, that the
proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquors
under the terms of this chapter. (Ord., 4-2-2002)
3-1-10: CLOSING HOURS:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor
in the City between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. on any day except on Christmas Day, when the closing hours shall be
between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. (Ord.
2019-1-14, 1-14-2019)
3-1-11: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor
to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years or to any intoxicated
person, except as provided in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-16.1. (Ord.,
4-2-2002; amd. 2015 Code)
3-1-12: MINORS:
   A.   Purchase, Possession, Consumption Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to knowingly purchase or
attempt to purchase or knowingly have in his or her possession or have consumed
any "alcoholic liquor" as defined in section
3-1-1 of this chapter. (Ord., 4-2-2002; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Presence On Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to attend, loiter or be in or about the premises of
any establishment where alcoholic liquor is sold by means of a class A, B or D
license issued by the city. However this subsection shall not apply to:
      1.   A person under twenty one (21) years who enters the establishment
holding a class A or B license if that person is accompanied by a person over
twenty one (21) years who is his or her parent, guardian, spouse or other
person acting in loco parentis of said person under twenty one (21) years.
      2.   A person under twenty one (21) years who enters an establishment
holding a class A license if said entry is made pursuant to the employment of
said person. (Ord., 4-2-2002)
   C.   Employment: It shall be unlawful, in any premises used for the retail
sale of alcoholic liquors, to employ any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years as a bartender, clerk or other position involving the direct sale of
alcoholic liquor to the public. (Ord. 2015-3, 3-9-2015)
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
SECTION:
3-2-1: License Required
3-2-2: Application For License
3-2-3: License Fees
3-2-4: License To Be Carried And Exhibited
3-2-5: Restrictions; Nuisance Declared
3-2-6: Revocation Of License
3-2-7: Exemptions From Provisions
3-2-8: Penalty
3-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, corporation or business entity to be in private
homes or upon private property in the city for the purpose of soliciting orders
for the sale of goods, services, wares, merchandise, magazines, or photographs,
or for the purpose of canvassing the community unless invited to do so by the
owners or occupants of said private homes or private property and without first
obtaining a license as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2011-3, 8-8-2011)
3-2-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring to secure a license under this chapter shall apply in
writing to the city clerk on a form provided by the city, at least ten (10)
days in advance of the effective date of the license. Such application shall
state:
   A.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
   B.   Name, address and telephone number of the person, firm or corporation
by whom the applicant is employed.
   C.   Description, license number, year, make and model of the vehicle being
utilized.
   D.   Nature or character of the publications, goods, wares, merchandise or
services being offered by the applicant.
   E.   Personal description of the applicant. (Ord. 2011-3, 8-8-2011; amd.
2015 Code)
3-2-3: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   The fee for any peddler, solicitor, hawker or canvasser shall be two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for an annual license or fifty dollars ($50.00) for a
daily license for each individual to be licensed. (Ord. 2011-3, 8-8-2011)
   B.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, no fee shall be due from
any not for profit organization applying for a license under this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, 1-12-2015)
3-2-4: LICENSE TO BE CARRIED AND EXHIBITED:
The license required by this chapter shall be carried at all times by the
applicant to whom issued when peddling, hawking, soliciting or canvassing in
the city. The license shall be exhibited by any such applicant whenever he or
she is requested to do so by a police officer or any person solicited. (Ord.
2011-3, 8-8-2011)
3-2-5: RESTRICTIONS; NUISANCE DECLARED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or agent of any corporation to go in or
upon any private residence, apartment, private business or premises in the city
for the purpose of selling or soliciting from the occupants thereof, or
canvassing for orders for publications, goods, wares and merchandise or
services of any character or description, without first having obtained the
consent of the occupants thereof and without a license in accordance with the
terms of this chapter, and in no event shall any solicitations as regulated by
this chapter occur after eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. Central Standard Time until
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. the next morning. Nor shall any such selling or
soliciting be lawful in any instance where any such occupant has forbidden
soliciting or canvassing or caused to be placed on his premises, in a
conspicuous position near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words "No
Trespassing", or "No Peddlers" or any similar notice indicating in any manner
that the occupant of said premises does not desire to be disturbed, unless such
occupant has specifically requested such solicitation or canvassing. A
violation of this chapter is hereby defined to be a public nuisance. (Ord.
2011-3, 8-8-2011; amd. 2015 Code)
3-2-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Without excluding other just grounds for revocation, the city council or mayor
may revoke any license:
   A.   Obtained under an application containing a false or fraudulent
statement; or
   B.   For violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or any other
ordinances of the city or any state or federal statutes; or
   C.   For selling or offering to sell or soliciting or canvassing for orders
for any publication, goods, wares, merchandise or services other than those
specified in his application for license. (Ord. 2011-3, 8-8-2011)
3-2-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to children and adults soliciting within the city
for the exclusive purpose of benefiting charitable causes within the city.
(Ord. 2011-3, 8-8-2011)
3-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense is deemed
committed on each day on which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue.
(Ord. 2011-3, 8-8-2011; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
3-3-1: Declaration Of Policy
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Prohibited Acts
3-3-4: Penalty
3-3-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   A.   In furthering the policy of the State of Illinois as expressed in its
Constitution and other Laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all the inhabitants of the city may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the City of Toluca, Illinois, to assure equal
opportunity to all residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national
origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap to live in
decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   B.   It is the policy of the City of Toluca that no owner, lessee, sub-
lessee, assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation having
the right to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation
and/or real property within the city or any agent of these shall refuse to
sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental
handicap of such person or persons or discriminate against any person or
persons because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed or physical or mental handicap in the conditions, terms, privileges of
the sale, rental or lease of any housing accommodation and/or real property or
in the furnishing of facilities and/or services in connection therewith.
   C.   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities. (Ord. 2019-7-8,
7-8-2019)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms shall have the meaning ascribed in this section and as used in this
chapter.
 
                                     "Decent, sanitary, healthful standard
DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD living quarters" is housing which is in
LIVING QUARTERS:                     sound, clean, and weathertight condition
                                     in conformance with applicable local,
                                     state, and national codes.
                                     The terms "discriminate" or
                                     "discrimination" mean any difference
                                     expressed in any way toward a person or
                                     persons in the terms of the sale,
                                     exchange, lease, rental or financing for
DISCRIMINATE:                        housing accommodation and/or real property
                                     in regard to such sale, exchange, rental,
                                     lease or finance because of race, color,
                                     religion, national origin or ancestry,
                                     sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap
                                     of such person.
                                     The term "financial institution" means any
                                     person, institution or business entity of
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION:               any kind which loans money to persons and
                                     receives as security for said loans a
                                     secured interest of any kind in the real
                                     property of the borrower.
                                     The term "housing accommodation" includes
                                     any building, structure, or portion
                                     thereof which is used or occupied,
HOUSING ACCOMMODATIO N:              maintained, arranged or designed to be
                                     used or occupied as a home, residence or
                                     sleeping place of one or more human
                                     beings, or any real estate so used,
                                     designed or intended for such use.
                                     An "owner" means any person/persons who
                                     hold legal or equitable title to, or own
                                     any beneficial interest in any real
OWNER:                               property or who hold legal or equitable
                                     title to shares of, or hold any beneficial
                                     interest in any real estate cooperative
                                     which owns any real property and/or
                                     housing accommodations.
                                     The term "real estate broker" means any
                                     person, partnership, association,
                                     corporation and/or agent thereof, who for
                                     a fee or other valuable consideration
                                     offers, sells, purchases, exchanges or
REAL ESTATE BROKER:                  rents, or negotiates for the sale,
                                     purchase, exchange or rental of a housing
                                     accommodation and/or real property of
                                     another, or collects rental for the use of
                                     a housing accommodation and/or real
                                     property of another.
                                     The term "real property" means any real
                                     estate, vacant land, building, structure
REAL PROPERTY:                       or housing accommodations within the
                                     corporate limits of the City of Toluca,
                                     Illinois. (Ord. 2019-7-8, 7-8-2019)
 
3-3-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee,
real estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental
handicap with regard to the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   B.   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the City of Toluca,
Illinois:
      1.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the city or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith.
      2.   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any form
of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed or physical or mental handicap of any person.
      3.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property.
      4.   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap.
      5.   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of persons in the neighborhood.
      6.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
physical or mental handicap in the area will or may result in the lowering of
property values in the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is
located.
      7.   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, physical or mental handicap.
      8.   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of the
proposed buyer or tenant. (Ord. 2019-7-8, 7-8-2019)
3-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than fifteen hundred dollars ($1500.00). Each day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation. This section shall in no way abrogate or
impair the right of the City of Toluca, Illinois, to specifically enforce, by
any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2019-7-8, 7-8-
2019)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
Nuisances   1
Garbage And Refuse   2
Open Burning   3
Groundwater; Water Supply Contamination   4
Dangerous Buildings   5
Vacant Buildings   6
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Nuisances Declared
4-1-1-1: Weeds And Vegetation
4-1-2: Nuisances Not Enumerated
4-1-3: Nuisances Unlawful
4-1-4: Investigation, Confirmation And Reporting Nuisances
4-1-5: Abatement Procedure And Costs
4-1-1: NUISANCES DECLARED:
Any thing, act, omission, occupation or condition which shall exist or continue
for such length of time as to: a) substantially annoy, injure or endanger the
health, safety, peace or welfare of the public; or b) in any way render the
public insecure in life or property; or c) greatly offend the public morals or
decency; or d) unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or render
dangerous for passage any street, sidewalk, alley or other public way or place
is hereby declared a nuisance. (Prior code § 15-1-2)
4-1-1-1: WEEDS AND VEGETATION:
   A.   Weeds: Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur
or other weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the
city are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit
any such weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
   B.   Height Of Weeds And Vegetation: It shall be unlawful for anyone to
permit any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or other
ornamental plants, to grow to a height exceeding eight inches (8") anywhere in
the city. Any such plants or weeds exceeding such height are hereby declared to
be a nuisance.
   C.   European Barberry Prohibited: It shall be a nuisance and unlawful to
plant or permit the growth within the city of the bush of the species of tall,
common or European barberry, further known as Berberis vulgaris, or its
horticultural varieties. (Ord. 2015-2, 2-9-2015)
4-1-2: NUISANCES NOT ENUMERATED:
Any nuisance declared by statute, by this code or by ordinances of the city
shall be enforceable under the provisions of this chapter as if enumerated
specifically herein. (Ord. 2015-2, 2-9-2015)
4-1-3: NUISANCES UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or negligently create, erect,
maintain or permit a nuisance to exist anywhere within the city. (Prior code §
15-1-1)
4-1-4: INVESTIGATION, CONFIRMATION AND REPORTING NUISANCES:
   A.   For the purpose of discovering nuisances, it shall be the duty of the
police department and the board of health to investigate, confirm and report
any nuisances coming to their attention.
   B.   In order to investigate, confirm and report nuisances, said officials
shall, upon proper identification, be permitted, at any reasonable hour and in
a reasonable manner, to visit and enter into or upon any premises or property
within the city to make an examination thereof if they shall have reasonable
grounds to believe that a nuisance exists. (Ord. 2015-2, 2-9-2015)
4-1-5: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE AND COSTS:
   A.   Notice To Abate: Whenever it is determined that a nuisance exists on
any private property, a proper city official shall cause a written notice to be
either: 1) served personally upon the owner; or 2) sent by mail to the address
to which the most recent tax bill for the property has been sent. Such notice
shall fairly apprise such person of the nature of the nuisance, his duty to
abate or remove the nuisance within the time provided herein, the penalty for
failure to abate the same, and that if said nuisance is abated by the city,
liability for necessary expenses so incurred shall accrue. (Ord. 2015-2, 2-9-
2015; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Failure To Abate:
      1.   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person
to neglect, refuse or otherwise fail to remove or abate any nuisance after the
expiration of five (5) days after such notice is delivered or mailed, or such
longer period as is set forth in the notice; and each twenty four (24) hours,
or fraction thereof, during which such nuisance continues to exist shall be
deemed a separate offense.
      2.   Whenever any nuisance is not abated within the time provided under
subsection B1 of this section, a proper city official shall cause the abatement
or removal of such nuisance.
   C.   Costs; Lien Provisions: Any costs or expenses of abatement reasonably
incurred by the city pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
a debt to the city by the owner of the property upon which such nuisance
existed, and shall become a lien upon the real estate affected. The city shall
file a statement of such lien with the county recorder of deeds containing a
legal description of the property and describing the costs incurred, the date
incurred and a notice that the city claims a lien for the amount of costs
incurred. (Ord. 2015-2, 2-9-2015)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Depositing Garbage
4-2-2: Accumulation Of Refuse On Residential Property; Scrapping
4-2-3: Placement And Removal Of Garbage Containers
4-2-4: Garbage Collection
4-2-1: DEPOSITING GARBAGE:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this section, "garbage" shall be defined as
any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance or waste. Garbage may include, but
is not limited to, any trash, refuse, debris, rubbish, grass clippings, or
other lawn or garden waste; newspaper; magazines; glass, metal, plastic or
paper containers, or other packaging; construction material; abandoned vehicle;
motor vehicle parts; furniture; oil; carcass of a dead animal; nauseous or
offensive matter of any kind; object likely to injure any person or create a
traffic hazard; or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature which has
been discarded, abandoned or otherwise disposed of improperly.
   B.   Depositing Garbage: No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw,
discard, leave, or cause or permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing,
discarding, or leaving, of garbage upon any public or private property in the
city, or upon or into any stream, lake, pond or other body of water in the city
unless:
      1.   The property has been designated by the city or any of its agencies
for the disposal of garbage, and the garbage is disposed of on that property in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations created by the city and
Illinois Compiled Statutes; or
      2.   The person is acting pursuant to special cleanup days established by
the city council; or
      3.   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly
disposes of any garbage when the emergency situation no longer exists. (Ord.,
11-11-2002)
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
fined five hundred dollars ($500.00) and the cost of cleanup for each offense.
   D.   Abatement by city.
      1.   Notice to abate. The chief of police or his designee is hereby
authorized and empowered to notify the owner, owner’s agent or occupant of any
premises on which garbage and refuse has been deposited violation of this
Section
4-2-1 of the city code and to demand the removal of garbage and refuse within
ten (10) days.
      2.   Abatement by city authorized; payment of costs. If the garbage and
refuse is not removed within ten (10) days after receipt of the notice
described in paragraph 1 above, or within ten (10) days of the date of refusal
of delivery of such notice, the city may proceed to remove such garbage and
refuse, keeping an account of the expense of the removal, including but not
limited to labor charges, equipment charges and all other charges determined by
the city to be applicable to the cost of the city in removing the garbage and
refuse, and such expense shall be charged to and paid by the property owner.
      3.   Filing of lien for unpaid charges. Charges for such removal shall be
a lien upon the premises. Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid for
30 days after it has been rendered, the city may file with the county recorder
of deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain a legal
description of the premises, the expenses and costs incurred and the date the
removal took place, and a notice that the city claims a lien for this amount.
Notice of such lien claim shall be delivered to the owner of the premises.
(Ord., 11-11-2002; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 2022-9-13, 9-12-2022)
4-2-2: ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE ON RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY; SCRAPPING:
   A.   Prohibited Materials: It shall be unlawful to engage in scrapping and/
or the accumulation upon any residential property within the city of any old,
abandoned or unwanted metal, wood, glass, concrete, bricks, rubber, plastic,
vinyl, slate, building material, roofing material, wrought iron, wiring,
piping, copper tubing, aluminum (except aluminum cans), steel, auto parts or
any other material that may be recycled or discarded for any purpose other than
for the immediate discarding of such items as waste. (Ord. 04-09-2012, 4-9-
2012; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this section shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. A separate offense is deemed committed on each day or part of a day on
which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue. (Ord. 04-09-2012, 4-9-
2012)
4-2-3: PLACEMENT AND REMOVAL OF GARBAGE CONTAINERS:
It is the responsibility of all persons occupying or controlling any single-
family dwelling to place containers for garbage as provided herein Containers
shall not be stored in the front yard or on a front porch. If containers are
stored outside, they shall be secured and maintained in a stationary manner.
Containers shall not be set out for garbage pickup earlier than 4:00 p.m. on
the day preceding garbage pickup. Containers shall be retrieved and returned to
the premises in compliance with this Section by 12:00 midnight on the day of
garbage pickup. In two-family or multiple-family dwellings of less than five
units, it is the responsibility of the owner to place and retrieve containers
within the same guidelines provided for single family dwellings. (Ord. 2022-9-
12, 9-12-2022)
4-2-4: GARBAGE COLLECTION:
   A.   System for Collection and Disposal of Residential Waste Established:
The sole and exclusive method for the collection and disposal of residential
waste from single family dwellings located within the city shall be the
collection and disposal of residential waste by a contractor selected by the
city to collect and dispose of residential waste from all single family
dwellings located within the city. The contractor shall have the authority to
provide reasonable rules and regulations for the collection of residential
waste.
   B.   Definitions:
      GARBAGE: Means waste resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food, and wastes from the handling,
processing, storage and sale of produce.
      RESIDENTIAL WASTE: Means garbage and the casual or occasional refuse,
rubbish or debris which may be generated from a private household.
      SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING: Means single family homes and duplexes.
   C.   Service Charges for Collection and Disposal of Residential Waste.
      1.   There shall be and there is hereby established a service charge for
the collection and disposal of residential waste in the amount of fifteen
($15.00) dollars per month to be imposed on all single family dwellings within
the city.
      2.   Said service charge for the collection and disposal of residential
waste shall be payable monthly. The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof
and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for
the service to suhc premises by the city only upon the condition that the owner
of the premises, occupant thereof and user of the service are jointly and
severally liable therefore to the city. All bills shall be collected in the
same manner as set forth in Chapter 1 of Title 8 of the city code for the
collection of water bills, and penalties shall be imposed for delinquent bills,
in the same manner as penalties for delinquent water bills are imposed pursuant
to said Chapter 1.
   D.   Prohibited Acts.
      1.   It shall be unlawful, and shall constitute a nuisance, for any
person to burn or bury residential waste within the city, to permit residential
waste to accumulate in any manner so as to create a nuisance and to attract
flies, vermin or rats, or to permit any residential waste to accumulate for
more than seven (7) days.
      2.   No residential waste of any kind shall be deposited in any street,
alley or public way, excepting residential waste placed for pickup by the
contractor selected by the city for the collection and disposal of garbage,
which shall be wrapped in tightly closed and tied plastic bags or placed in a
toter and maintained in good order and in an inconspicuous place so as not to
create a nuisance to neighbors.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly deposit residential
waste on his or her property or on the property of another without consent of
the owner, or to deposit residential waste on the property of a public entity
without the consent of the public entity; for purposes of this subsection,
“property” shall include both real and personal property.
      4.   No residential waste of any kind shall be deposited in such a manner
so that it can be blown or scattered by the wind.
      5.   Whenever any residential waste has been deposited in violation of
any ordinance prohibiting said deposit, the person whose name appears as an
addressee on said waste shall be prima facie responsible for such violation and
subject to the penalty therefor.
(Ord. 2023-1-10, 1-9-2023)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Burning Regulations
4-3-1: BURNING REGULATIONS:
The open burning of any matter anywhere in the city is hereby prohibited,
subject to the following exceptions:
   A.   The noncommercial cooking of food in outdoor fireplaces or grills.
   B.   The removal of structures by burning under the direct supervision of
the Toluca fire protection district.
   C.   The incineration of refuse in a device approved by the air pollution
control board of the state of Illinois. (Prior code § 16-3)
CHAPTER 4
GROUNDWATER; WATER SUPPLY CONTAMINATION
SECTION:
4-4-1: Setbacks From Public Water Supply
4-4-2: Use Of Groundwater As Potable Water Prohibited
4-4-1: SETBACKS FROM PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Statute Authority; Purpose; Scope: Pursuant to the authority conferred
by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-125-4 (2010) and 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/14.2 and 5/14.3 (2010); and in the interest of securing the public
health, safety, and welfare; to preserve the quality and quantity of
groundwater resources in order to assure a safe and adequate water supply for
present and future generations; and to preserve groundwater resources currently
in use and those aquifers having a potential for future use as a public water
supply, the provisions of this section shall apply to all properties located
within the minimum setback zone established under section 14.2 of the
environmental protection act 1  ("act") and this section, and the maximum
setback zone established under section 14.3 of the act 2  and this section.
   B.   Definitions: Except as stated in this section, and unless a different
meaning of a word or term is clear from the context, the definition of words or
terms in this section shall be the same as those used in the act and the
Illinois groundwater protection act 3 :
   ACT: The environmental protection act 4 .
   AGENCY: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
   BOARD: The Illinois pollution control board.
   MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE: The area around a community water supply well
established under section 14.3 of the act and this section, and described in
appendix A attached to the ordinance codified herein.
   MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE: The area around a community water supply well
established under section 14.2 of the act and this section, and described in
appendix A attached to the ordinance codified herein.
   C.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection D or E of this section, no person
shall place a new potential source, new potential secondary source, or new
potential route within the minimum setback zone.
      2.   Except as provided otherwise in subsection D of this section, no
person shall place a new potential primary source within the maximum setback
zone.
   D.   Waivers, Exceptions And Certifications Of Minimal Hazard:
      1.   If, pursuant to section 14.2(b) of the act, the owner of a new
potential primary source, new potential secondary source, or new potential
route is granted a waiver by the agency, such owner shall be deemed to have a
waiver to the same extent from subsection C1 of this section.
      2.   If, pursuant to section 14.2(c) of the act, the owner of a new
potential primary source (other than land filling or land treating), new
potential secondary source, or new potential route is granted an exception by
the board, such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to the same extent
from subsection C1 of this section.
      3.   If, pursuant to section 14.2(c) of the act, the owner of a new
potential primary source (other than land filling or land treating), is granted
an exception by the board, such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to
the same extent from subsection C2 of this section.
      4.   If, pursuant to section 14.5 of the act, the owner of a new
potential primary source, new potential secondary source, or new potential
route is issued a certificate of minimal hazard by the agency, such owner shall
not be subject to subsection C1 of this section to the same extent that such
owner is not subject to section 14.2(d) of the act.
   E.   Exclusion: Subsection C1 of this section shall not apply to new common
sources of sanitary pollution as specified pursuant to section 17 of the act
and the regulations adopted thereunder by the agency; however, no such common
sources may be located within the applicable minimum distance from a community
water supply well specified by such regulations. (Ord. 2011-16, 11-11-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/14.2 (2010).
2 2. 415 ILCS 5/14.3 (2010).
3 3. 415 ILCS 55/1 (2010).
4 4. 415 ILCS 5/1 (2010).
4-4-2: USE OF GROUNDWATER AS POTABLE WATER PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions:
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes,
or preparing foods.
   B.   Area Where Use Prohibited: The use or attempt to use as a potable water
supply groundwater from within the corporate limits of the city as a potable
water supply, by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other method
is hereby prohibited within the area described as follows. This prohibition
expressly includes the city.
The area bounded by the intersections of Main Street with 2nd Street, 2nd
Street with Linden Street, Linden Street with Atchison Avenue, and Atchison
Avenue with Main Street, inclusive of the public right of way along each
street.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
violation. (Ord. 2014-04-14, 4-14-2014)
CHAPTER 5
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Dangerous Buildings Prohibited
4-5-3: Authority To Demolish, Repair Or Enclose
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   BUILDING: Any walled or roofed structure, including mobile homes, commercial
establishments, dwellings and any accessory structures.
   DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE BUILDING: Any building or structure which has any of
the following defects or is in any of the following conditions that shall be
deemed unsafe:
   A.   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit
is not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide a safe
and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic for all persons housed or
assembled therein who would be required to or might use such door, aisle,
passageway, stairway or other means of exit.
   B.   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by wind, flood, fire or
any other cause in such a manner that the structural strength or stability
thereof is appreciably less than it was before the catastrophe and is less than
the minimum requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fall or to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
   D.   Whenever any portion thereof has settled to such an extent that walls
or other structural portions have materially less resistance to winds than is
required in the case of new construction.
   E.   Whenever any building or structure or any part thereof, because of
dilapidation, deterioration, decay, or faulty construction, or because of the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of
supporting such building or portion thereof, or for other reason, is likely to
partially or completely collapse, or some portion of the foundation or
underpinning is likely to fall or give way.
   F.   Whenever, for any reason whatsoever, the building or structure or any
portion thereof is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used.
   G.   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind or
flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated, as to become an attractive
nuisance to children who might play in or about the building or structure to
their danger.
   H.   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind or
flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to afford a harbor for
trespassers, or as to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of
committing a nuisance or unlawful acts.
   I.   Whenever a building or structure used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay, damage or faulty
construction or arrangement, is unsanitary or unfit for human habitation and is
likely to work injury to the health, safety or general welfare of those living
within.
   J.   Whenever a building or structure is infested with rodents, insects,
pests or other vermin, or is likely to cause sickness or disease.
   K.   Whenever any building shall become vacant, dilapidated or open at door
or window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers.
   L.   Whenever any unoccupied building or structure is deemed a nuisance and
the structure or building has been secured by the owner or his agents by
covering up the windows and exits with lumber or materials other than glazing
materials for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days or more, thereby
causing a blighting influence on a neighborhood. (Ord. 2015-4-2, 4-13-2015)
4-5-2: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or agent thereof to permit any building or
structure or part thereof located within the city to become a "dangerous and
unsafe building" (as defined in section
4-5-1 of this chapter), to abandon any building or to leave any building
uncompleted. (Ord. 2015-4-2, 4-13-2015)
4-5-3: AUTHORITY TO DEMOLISH, REPAIR OR ENCLOSE:
The appropriate officers of the city shall have the authority to demolish,
repair or enclose or cause the demolition, repair or enclosure of dangerous and
unsafe buildings, uncompleted buildings and abandoned buildings located within
the city in accordance with section 11-31-1 of the Illinois municipal code.
(Ord. 2015-4-2, 4-13-2015)
CHAPTER 6
VACANT BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Declaration Of Vacant Buildings
4-6-3: Obligation To Register Vacant Buildings
4-6-4: Application For Vacant Building Registration, Provisions Related Thereto
And Additional Provisions Regarding Open Buildings
4-6-5: Vacant Building Plan
4-6-6: Approval Of Plan
4-6-7: Authority To Modify Plan And Appeal Rights
4-6-8: Standard Governing The Review Of A Vacant Building Plan
4-6-9: Failure To Comply With Plan
4-6-10: Additional Provisions Regarding Open Buildings
4-6-11:    Failure Of Owner To Comply With The Enclosure Requirements Shall
Include But Not Necessarily Be Limited To, The Following Provisions And
Remedies
4-6-12: Enclosure Permit
4-6-13:    Enclosure Permit; Fees
4-6-14: Registration Fee; Expiration And Fees
4-6-15:    Changes In Registration Information
4-6-16: Additional Responsibilities Of The Owner
4-6-17:    Promulgation Of Rules And Regulations
4-6-18:    Enforcement And Penalties
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
                         A structure built for the support, shelter, occupancy,
BUILDING:                or enclosure of a person, a person's animals,
                         chattels, or moveable property of any kind and which
                         is permanently affixed to the ground.
                         The appointed building commissioner of the city; or if
                         there is at any time no individual occupying and
BUILDING COMMISSIONER:   holding the position of building commissioner, then
                         until such time as the position of building
                         commissioner shall be filled, the superintendent of
                         public works shall be the building commissioner.
                         The open space on the premises and on adjoining
EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS: property under the control of owners or operators of
                         such premises.
                         Acts of repair and other acts to maintain the premises
                         in conformity with all codes of the City and/or to
                         prevent a decline in the condition of grounds,
MAINTENANCE:             structures, and equipment; such that the condition
                         does not fall below the standards established by this
                         code and all other applicable codes and ordinances of
                         the City.
                         A small room with an entry door on one wall and an
MAN TRAP:                exit door on the opposite wall, when one door is
                         unlocked the opposite door is locked.
                         Any person (including domestic service employees)
OCCUPANT:                living and/or sleeping in a building and/or having
                         possession of a space within a building.
                         Any existing building or part thereof which is
                         unoccupied and is deemed hazardous due to the fact
                         that the building is open to trespass and is a fire
OPEN BUILDING:           hazard as identified by the Toluca-Rutland Fire
                         Department. Buildings under construction which have a
                         valid building permit assigned to them are not to be
                         considered "open buildings".
                         Any building or part thereof that is in such condition
OPEN TO TRESPASS:        as to allow entry without the use of keys or special
                         tools by unauthorized persons, animals or fowl.
                         Any person who has charge, care or control of a
OPERATOR:                structure or premises which is let or offered for
                         occupancy.
                         Any person, agent, operator, firm, or corporation
                         having a legal or equitable interest in the property;
                         or recorded in the official records of the state,
                         county or municipality as holding title to the
                         property; or otherwise having control of the property,
OWNER:                   including the guardian of the estate of any such
                         person, the executor or administrator of the estate of
                         such person if ordered to take possession of real
                         property by a court and/or otherwise pursuant to law,
                         and any mortgagee of the premises in possession and/or
                         control of the premises.
                         Includes an individual, corporation, partnership, co-
PERSON:                  partnership or limited liability company, as well as
                         an individual.
PREMISES:                A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings
                         or structures thereon.
PUBLIC NUISANCES: Include the following:
                  1. The physical condition, or use of any premises regarded as
                 a public nuisance by common law, under the Illinois Compiled
                  Statues, or under any applicable codes or ordinances of the
                  City; or
                  2. Any physical condition, use or occupancy of any premises
                  or its appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to
                 children, including, but not limited to, abandoned wells,
                  shafts, basements, excavations, and unsafe fences or
                  structures; or
                 3. Any building which has unsanitary sewage or plumbing
                  facilities; or
                 4. Any building designated by the Building Commissioner as
                  unsafe for human habitation or use; or
                  5. Any building which constitutes a fire hazard, or is unsafe
                 or insecure to a degree that endangers life, limb or
                  property; or
                  6. Any premises which is unsanitary or which is littered with
                 rubbish or garbage, or which has an uncontrolled growth of
                  weeds; or
                 7. Any building that is: dangerous; in a state of
                  dilapidation, deterioration or decay; or open to trespass.
                  Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except
                  garbage, and the term shall include the residue from the
                  burning of wood, coal, coke and other combustible materials,
RUBBISH:          paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
                  leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
                  mineral matter, glass crockery and dust and/or other similar
                  materials.
                  Any building or part thereof which is unoccupied but does not
                  constitute an open building, as defined herein, and upon
SECURED BUILDING: which the owner has enclosed any door, window, or other
                  openings into that building by any means other than
                  conventional construction methods used in the design of the
                  building.
VACANT:           1. VACANT BUILDING means any building, which is:
                    a. An open building, as defined in this chapter.
 
        b. A secured building, as defined in this chapter.
         c. Any building which is unoccupied for over ninety (90) days and during
     which time the Building Commissioner has issued a notice to correct three (3)
      or more violations of any code or ordinance of the city.
      2. VACANT BUILDINGS shall not include unoccupied buildings which are
      undergoing construction, renovation or rehabilitation and which are in
     compliance with all applicable city ordinances, codes and regulations and for
      which construction, renovation or rehabilitation is proceeding diligently to
      completion. If construction has halted and the building permit has expired
      then the owner will be required to register as a vacant building.
WIRE  Shall not be less than 23 gauge with 1/4" holes. Additionally WIRE MESH shall
MESH: be installed as one continuous piece. (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-2019)
 
4-6-2: DECLARATION OF VACANT BUILDINGS:
   A.   Evaluation: The Building Commissioner may evaluate buildings in the
city as to whether a building meets the definition of a vacant building and
based on vacancy factors, make a declaration of a vacant building. The
declaration shall be in writing and shall state the factual basis.
Additionally, in the event any public nuisance as defined herein exists in
connection with the building or premises, then the Building Commissioner may
additionally specify in the notice the existence of such nuisance(s).
   B.   Notice: Within seven (7) days of making a declaration, the Building
Commissioner shall send notice of the declaration with the factual findings to
the owner. The notice of declaration shall be sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by personal substitute service, and posted on a
conspicuous location on the building. Proof of mailing shall be prima facie
evidence of receipt of the notice. The notice shall contain a statement of the
obligations of the owner of a building determined to be a vacant building, a
copy of the vacant building registration application, and a notice of the
owner's right to appeal the Building Commissioner's decision.
   C.   An owner of a building determined by the Building Commissioner to be a
vacant building as provided for in this section may appeal the declaration to
the Building Code Committee of the City Council of the city (hereinafter
"Building Code Committee"). Such appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the City Clerk within twenty one (21) days of the date of mailing of the
notice of declaration. The filing of an appeal stays the owners obligation to
register the building. The appeal shall contain a complete statement of the
reasons the owner disputes the declaration, shall set forth specific facts in
support thereof, and shall include all evidence the owner relies upon to
support the appeal. The City Clerk shall set the matter for hearing before the
Building Code Committee and provide at least fifteen (15) days written notice
to the owner of the date of said hearing.
   D.   Grounds For Appeal: An appeal of the declaration of vacant building
shall be based solely on whether the building is deemed to be a vacant
building.
   E.   Decision: The Building Code Committee shall decide the appeal after a
hearing. The City Clerk shall send written notice of the decision to the owner
within fifteen (15) days after the hearing. Any party may appeal the decision
of the Building Code Committee to the Circuit Court of Marshall County within
thirty five (35) days of the decision pursuant to appropriate provisions of
proceedings governing administrative review under the Illinois Compiled
Statutes. (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-2019)
4-6-3: OBLIGATION TO REGISTER VACANT BUILDINGS:
A.   Except as provided in division B. of this section, whenever any building
in the city is vacant as defined within this chapter or declared vacant by the
city's Building Commissioner as provided within this chapter, then the owner of
such building shall, within ten (10) days of the occurrence of the first of the
aforementioned events to occur, register such building as a vacant building and
submit a vacant building plan.
B.   The Building Commissioner shall have the discretion to determine that a
building which meets any of the criteria set forth in the definition of vacant
building as provided herein is not to be regulated under this chapter for a
stated period if upon consideration of reliable, substantiated and sufficient
evidence, the Building Commissioner determines that the circumstances, which
give rise to the building being eligible for regulation hereunder are clearly
temporary in nature and are either in the process of being addressed or will
soon be addressed by the owner and that therefore regulation of the building
under this chapter would not serve the public health, welfare and safety and
makes written findings in support of the Building Commissioner's decision. The
determination shall be in writing and shall state the factual basis for the
determination. Notice of said determination shall be provided in writing by the
Building Commissioner to the person designated by Marshall County as receiving
the real estate tax bill regarding said premises. The contents of said notice
of said determination requiring registration shall include the following:
   1.   The street address of the building or a description sufficient for
identification;
   2.   A statement requiring the proper owner to register the building with
the city to apply for the necessary permits within ten (10) days of the mailing
of the notice, and to enclose the building in compliance with this chapter;
   3.   A statement requiring the property owner and/or permit holder to call
the Building Commissioner prior to completion of the enclosure in order to
schedule an inspection:
   4.   A statement whereby the owner or his or her designated agent shall be
responsible for maintaining the property free of any brush, dead or dying
trees, stumps, roots or solid waste material; and that the grass and weeds
shall not exceed six inches (6") in height;
   5.   A copy of this chapter pertaining to vacant buildings; and
   6.   If a violation of the City Code is alleged in connection with the
building or premises thereto, the violations shall be specified in the notice.
   C.   The owner or responsible party shall apply for vacant building
registration within 10 days of the mailing of the notice. (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-
2019)
4-6-4: APPLICATION FOR VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION, PROVISIONS RELATED THERETO
AND ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS REGARDING OPEN BUILDINGS:
The owner of a vacant building as defined herein in registering the vacant
building as provided herein shall supply the following information in writing,
with the applicable registration fee:
   A.    The name, address and telephone number of owner;
   B.   If the owner resides outside of Marshall County, Illinois, the owner
must provide the name, address and telephone number of an authorized agent. The
authorized agent shall be a natural person, eighteen (18) years of age or
older, who resides in Marshall County, Illinois, and who has the authority to
receive all notices of code violations and service of process of court or
administrative enforcement proceedings on behalf of the owner;
   C.   The name, address and telephone number of all persons with any legal
interest in the property, building and premises;
   D.   Legal description and tax parcel identification number of the premises
on which the building is situated;
   E.   The common address of the building;
   F.   Date on which the building became vacant; and
   G.   Vacant building plan. (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-2019)
4-6-5: VACANT BUILDING PLAN:
   A.   A vacant building plan shall contain the following information:
      1.   A plan of action to maintain the building and premises thereof in
conformance with this chapter;
      2.   For buildings and premises thereof which are identified as being or
containing a violation of this chapter, a plan of action to remedy such
violations;
      3.   A time schedule identifying a date of commencement of repair and
date of completion of repair for each violation of this chapter; and
      4.   If the owner proposes to demolish the vacant building, then the
owner shall submit a plan and time schedule for such demolition.
   B.   The owner shall arrange for a re-inspection of the structure by the
Building Commissioner upon each date of completion listed in the vacant
building plan. (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-2019)
4-6-6: APPROVAL OF PLAN:
The Building Commissioner or his or her designee shall have the discretion to
approve the proposed vacant building plan. If the Building Commissioner or his
or her designee approves the plan, notice shall be sent to the owner or agent
of the vacant building. (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-2019)
4-6-7: AUTHORITY TO MODIFY PLAN AND APPEAL RIGHTS:
The Building Commissioner shall upon notice to the vacant building owner or
agent, have the right to modify the vacant building plan by altering the dates
of performance or the proposed methods of action. If the owner or agent of the
vacant building objects to the modifications, such owner shall have the right
to appeal the decision of the Building Commissioner to the Fire Chief of the
Toluca-Rutland Fire Department (hereinafter "Fire Chief). The Fire Chief shall
conduct an appropriate hearing following appropriate notice and after
considering the testimony of the Building Commissioner, the building owner,
and/or any other interested party, shall have the authority to fashion his or
her own vacant building plan or approve the plan submitted by the owner or the
modified plan of the Building Commissioner. The decision of the Fire Chief
shall be in writing and shall be provided within fifteen (15) days subsequent
to said hearing. Any party shall have the right to appeal the decision of the
Fire Chief to the Building Code Committee of the city by filing written notice
of intention to do so within thirty (30) days of receipt of the determination
of the Fire Chief. The Building Code Committee shall conduct an appropriate
hearing and after considering all evidence deemed appropriate within the
discretion of the Building Code Committee presented at said hearing, the
Building Code Committee shall issue a written decision within fifteen (15) days
subsequent to the hearing. Any decision of the Building Code Committee may be
appealed within thirty five (35) days thereafter to the Circuit Court of
Marshall County pursuant to the pertinent provisions regarding administrative
review proceedings under the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-
2019)
4-6-8: STANDARD GOVERNING THE REVIEW OF A VACANT BUILDING PLAN:
In considering the appropriateness of a vacant building plan, the reviewing
authority shall consider the following:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter and intent of the City Council to minimize
the period of time a building is boarded up or otherwise vacant;
   B.   The effect of the proposed plan on adjoining property;
   C.   The general economic conditions of the community;
   D.   The financial condition of the owner;
   E.   The cost to implement the proposed plan;
   F.   The length of time the building has been vacant;
   G.   The presence of any public nuisances on the property; and
   H.   The relative hardship on or gain to the public as contrasted and
compared to the hardship or gain of the owner resulting from approval or
modification of the proposed plan. (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-2019)
4-6-9: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PLAN:
Failure to comply with the approved plan shall constitute a violation of this
code subjecting the owner of the building to the penalties as provided in this
chapter of the City Code. (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-2019)
4-6-10: ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS REGARDING OPEN BUILDINGS:
All open buildings, as defined in this chapter, shall be enclosed by the owner.
The enclosure shall comply with the provisions within the all codes and
ordinances of the city and with the following requirements:
   A.   All windows shall be secured and all doors covered with a wire mesh,
securely attached to the frame work of either the doors or windows so as to
restrict or prohibit access to the premises. This method shall be done in a way
to create an appearance of occupancy to premises and reduce neighborhood
blight. The wire mesh shall be as provided and defined in Section 4-6-1 of this
chapter.
   B.   All other exterior openings allowing entry of fowl or animals shall be
covered from the exterior with wire mesh. This method shall be done in a way to
create an appearance of occupancy to premises and reduce neighborhood blight.
The wire mesh shall be as provided and defined in Section
4-6-1  of this chapter.
   C.   Water and gas service to the building shall be disconnected. Electrical
service to the building shall be disconnected at the pole, transformer, or
distribution can.
   D.   All garbage, rubbish and solid waste shall be removed from the interior
and exterior of the property.
   E.   All mantraps existing within the building shall be covered or repaired.
   F.   The storage of materials is limited to standards set forth by the Fire
Chief and by the codes and ordinances of the city.
   G.   The property owner and/or permit holder shall call the Building
Commissioner prior to completion of enclosure in order to schedule a compliance
inspection.
4-6-11: FAILURE OF OWNER TO COMPLY WITH THE ENCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS SHALL
INCLUDE, BUT NOT NECESSARILY BE LIMITED TO, THE FOLLOWING PROVISIONS AND
REMEDIES:
   A.   If the owner of the building fails to comply with the notice to enclose
within ten (10) days after the date of mailing of the notice, the Building
Commissioner may file a complaint in the circuit court requesting the enclosure
of the building by the owner. If the owner fails to comply with an order from
the court, the city may cause the structure to be enclosed in compliance with
the City Code.
   B.   Any open structure which poses an immediate health hazard shall be
enclosed within twenty four (24) hours. In the event the structure is not
enclosed within twenty four (24) hours, the city may enclose or cause the
enclosure of the structure. Should the open structure be in a location or
condition so as to be an emergency, the city may enclose or cause the enclosure
of the structure without delay without first issuing any notice.
   C.   The cost of enclosure by the city shall constitute a lien on the
property where the building is located. The lien shall consist of a sworn
statement setting out a description, the amount of money representing the cost
and expense incurred, and the date or dates when the cost and expense was
incurred by the city. Upon payment of the costs and expense by the owner or
other persons interested in the property after the notice of lien has been
filed, the lien shall be released and the release may be filed by the owner or
other person interested in the property. The lien may be enforced by
proceedings to foreclose as in cases of mortgages or mechanic's liens.
   D.   If the city corrects the violation itself or causes the violation to be
corrected on its behalf, the owner of the property shall nevertheless be
subject to a fine for the code violation as provided for in this chapter in
addition to a lien being placed on the owner's property. In addition, the City
may also obtain a personal judgment against the owner of the property for the
costs of correcting the violation. (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-2019)
4-6-12: ENCLOSURE PERMIT:
No person shall enclose any building without first obtaining an enclosure
permit from the Building Commissioner, pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2019-9-
10, 9-9-2019)
4-6-13: ENCLOSURE PERMIT; FEES:
   A.   Expiration: A building permit for enclosure shall provide that the
permittee start the enclosure within three (3) days from the date of issuance
and complete enclosure within ten (10) days from the date of issuance.
   B.   Extension: Extensions shall be subject to a special inspection to
determine if reasonable progress is being made.
   C.   Approval: All applications for enclosure permits and renewals or
extensions of enclosure permits are subject to approval by the city.
   D.   Fee: The fee for a registration permit for the enclosure of a building
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-2019)
4-6-14: REGISTRATION FEE; EXPIRATION AND FEES:
   A.   The initial registration fee for each building shall be three hundred
dollars ($300.00) for a building consisting of less than twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet and six hundred dollars ($600.00) for a building
consisting of more than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet. The registration
fee thereafter shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a building
consisting of less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet and one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for a building consisting of more than twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet. The initial and any subsequent registration shall be
valid for a period of three (3) months. The registration fee is due at the time
of the application for the registration permit. If at the end of any
registration period, the building official determines that the building is no
longer a vacant building as defined herein, the owner will not be required to
register the building. If the owner notifies the building official that the
building is no longer a vacant building as defined herein, and the Building
Official concurs, the owner shall be reimbursed an amount equal to the number
of months remaining in the registration period.
   B.   Before any building is registered or reregistered, a joint inspection
shall be conducted by the Building Commissioner and any other City department
deemed necessary by the Building Commissioner to determine whether any
violations of this code exist. If an owner or occupant of the building refuses
to allow an inspection or re-inspection to be conducted, an administrative
search warrant may be requested from the circuit court.
   C.   After a building has been registered, or required to be registered by
the city, for a period of three (3) years, no further registration shall be
permitted and the owner shall be required to either obtain permits sufficient
to obtain a certificate of occupancy or demolish the building. At such time,
the Building Commissioner shall undertake a comprehensive inspection of the
building for determining whether the building should be deemed an unsafe or
dangerous building as defined in Chapter 5 of this Article 4. Any owner who
does not obtain such permit or permits within sixty (60) days of the end of the
said three (3) year period shall be subject to a fine of not less than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). A separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation of this section occurs or continues.
   D.   Each building that has been registered under this chapter may be listed
on the city's website, which listing shall include the address of the building
and the name of the record owner of the property on which the building is
located. (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-2019)
4-6-15: CHANGES IN REGISTRATION INFORMATION:
An owner shall notify the Building Commissioner within twenty one (21) days of
any change in the registration information by filing an amended registration
statement on an application provided by the Building Commissioner. A new
registration is required for any change in ownership whatsoever. The
registration statement shall be deemed prima facie proof of the statements
therein contained in any administrative enforcement proceeding or court
proceeding instituted by the city in reference to the building and/or the
premises on which the building is located. Failure to notify the Building
Commissioner of any change in the registration information as provided herein
within said twenty one (21) day period shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-2019)
4-6-16: ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OWNER:
   A.   An owner of any vacant building shall enclose and secure the building
and maintain the building in a secure and closed condition until the building
is no longer a vacant building as defined herein.
   B.   Additionally, the owner of any vacant building shall also:
      1.   Keep the premises on which a building is located clean, safe and
sanitary, maintained free of weeds, trash, junk, debris, junk cars, and litter;
      2.   Keep the property maintained free of graffiti, tagging, or similar
markings;
      3.   Keep pools and spas in working order so that the water is not
stagnant and remains clear and free of pollutants, debris and insects, or
drained and kept dry; and
      4.   Post on the front door of the building in a conspicuous manner an
emergency contact name and telephone number for use by the police, paramedics,
fire department or other emergency responders. (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-2019)
4-6-17: PROMULGATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Building Commissioner in consultation with the Mayor, Chief of Police and
Superintendent of Public Works may jointly issue lawful, usual and customary
rules and regulations for the administration of this chapter. These rules may
designate materials and methods to assist in the registration process and may
additionally designate materials and methods to be used to secure a building.
(Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-2019)
4-6-18: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   The city shall send a notice to the owner by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by personal or substitute service, for the failure to
complete a vacant building registration application, register the vacant
building, and/or pay the registration fee for a vacant building. Each shall
constitute a separate violation. Proof of mailing of said notice shall be prima
facie evidence of receipt of the notice. The owner shall have twenty-one days
in which to complete a vacant building registration application, register the
vacant building and/or pay the registration fee for a vacant building as set
forth in the notice; if the violation is not resolved within twenty one (21)
days, the fine amount shall be the amount of the registration fee due and owing
plus not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation; additionally, in the event
that the City is required to perform a search to ascertain the owner, the owner
is responsible to reimburse the city for said costs. Further, an owner who
fails to re-register the vacant building and/or pay the renewal registration
fee as provided herein shall be subject to the same penalties as set forth
above in connection with an owner who originally fails to complete a vacant
building registration application, register the vacant building and/or pay the
registration fee for a vacant building. Each day that a violation shall be
permitted to continue shall constitute a new and separate offense in violation
of this chapter.
   B.   If the owner of any building fails to comply with the notice to
register within ten (10) days after the date of mailing of the notice, the
Building Commissioner may in addition to the other remedies provided herein
file a complaint in the Circuit Court requesting the registration of the
building by the owner and further requesting compliance with this chapter,
amongst other relief.
   C.   Additionally, any person who violates any other provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and each day that
a violation occurs shall constitute a new and additional offense in violation
of this chapter. Further, again, the remedies as provided herein are in
addition to all other legal and/or equitable remedies available to the City.
Such other remedies include, but are not limited to, injunctive relief,
application to a court of competent jurisdiction for receiver, demolition, or
condemnation, contracting for the repair or purchase of the premises, or
foreclosure of any lien that the city may have thereon. Each day that a
violation of this chapter shall be permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense in violation. (Ord. 2019-9-10, 9-9-2019)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
Animal Control   1
Miscellaneous Offenses   2
Minors   3
Misdemeanors   4
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Prohibited Animals
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: Animal Control Officer; Enforcement
5-1-4: Animal Shelter
5-1-5: Cruelty To Animals
5-1-6: Prohibition Of Use Of Dogs In Conjunction With Criminal Acts
5-1-7: Forfeiture Of Abandoned Dog
5-1-8: Mistreating, Interfering With Police Dogs
5-1-9: Disturbing The Peace
5-1-10: Diseased Animals
5-1-11: Rabies Vaccination Required - Dogs
5-1-12: Rabies Vaccination Required - Cats
5-1-13: Collar Requirements
5-1-14: Procedure As To Animal Which Has Bitten Human Being Or Exhibits Signs
Of Rabies
5-1-15: Killing Threatening Animals
5-1-16: Holding For Reward Strayed Or Stolen Animals
5-1-17: Stray Animals
5-1-18: Dogs Running-At-Large
5-1-19: Determination Of Dangerous Dog
5-1-20: Impoundment
5-1-21: Notice Of Impoundment
5-1-22: Disposition Of Impounded Animals
5-1-23: Keeping Of Dangerous Animals
5-1-24: Animal Waste On Property Of Owner
5-1-25: Removal Of Dog Excrement From Property Other Than Owner's
5-1-1: PROHIBITED ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or have any horse, mule, ox, cow,
cattle, sheep, goat, swine, fowl or any other farm animal within the corporate
limits of the City. (Prior Code § 14-4)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
following meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   ANIMAL: Any vertebrate species, other than man.
   ANIMAL SHELTER: The agency or business that has contracted with the City to
provide impoundment and animal shelter services.
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of a leash of
the owner, possessor or keeper. For the purpose of this chapter, voice control
shall not be considered as control.
   DANGEROUS DOG: Any individual dog which, without justification, bites or
attacks a human being or a domestic animal either on public or private
property, including the private property of the owner.
No animal shall be deemed "dangerous" solely because it is a professional
trained dog for law enforcement or guard duties, or if it bites, attacks, or
menaces anyone who has tormented or abused it and the animal's response is
proportionate to the provocation.
No dog shall be classified as "dangerous" solely because of its breed.
   DAY: A calendar day consisting of a twenty four (24) hour period from one
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to the next succeeding twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight.
   DOG: All members of the family Canidae.
   LEASH: A cord, rope, strap or chain securely fastened to an animal by a
collar or harness, and of sufficient strength to keep such animal under
control.
   OWNER, POSSESSOR, OR KEEPER: Any person having a right of property in an
animal, who keeps or harbors an animal, or has it in his/her care, or acts as
its custodian, exerts control over it, or who knowingly permits an animal to
remain on or about premises owned or occupied by such person. (Ord. 2007-12-10,
12-10-2007)
5-1-3: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The Chief of Police shall be ex officio animal control officer for the
City of Toluca. Provision shall be made for the appointment of such animal
control officers as may be necessary. The animal control officers, employed by
contractual agreement or otherwise, shall be authorized to investigate matters
regarding the provisions of this chapter and issue citations for violations of
this chapter. The animal control officer is charged with enforcement of this
chapter.
   B.   Any violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance. In
addition to any other relief provided by this chapter, the City Attorney may
apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the
continuation of any violation of the provisions of this chapter. Such
application for relief may include seeking a temporary restraining order,
temporary injunction, and permanent injunction. A separate offense under this
chapter shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
   C.   Every owner of any animal residing within the City shall comply with
all ordinances of Marshall County with respect to such animal, including
without limitation ordinances requiring the registration of animals and
regulating the conditions with respect to the ownership of multiple animals.
Failure to comply with such ordinances shall be a violation of this subsection
C, punishable by a fine not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day that failure to so comply
continues shall be considered a separate violation. (Ord. 2017-9-11, 9-12-2017)
5-1-4: ANIMAL SHELTER:
The City of Toluca shall contract with the Marshall County Pound to provide
services to include the impounding of all animals delivered to the shelter by
authority of the animal control officer. The Marshall County Pound shall
maintain a pound enclosure or other suitable means for impounding such animals
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the application
provisions of the Marshall County revised ordinance 07-22 and the addendum to
the Marshall County revised ordinance 07-22 and the applicable provisions of
the State of Illinois. All such animals shall be kept, maintained, humanely
treated and fed by the Marshall County Pound until redeemed or otherwise
disposed of in accordance with this chapter and the application provisions of
the Marshall County revised ordinance 07-22 and the addendum to the Marshall
County revised ordinance 07-22. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
5-1-5: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall commit cruelty to animals. A person commits cruelty to
animals when that person knowingly:
      1.   Confines the animal in such a manner so that it is forced to stand,
lie, or sit in its own excrement;
      2.   Fails to provide living quarters of sufficient size to exercise and
move about;
      3.   Fails to provide quarters that are protected from excessive heat or
cold, precipitation, wind, or other effects of the elements;
      4.   Fails to keep an animal in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner;
      5.   Deprives the animal of proper veterinary care or adequate
sustenance;
      6.   Tethers an animal with a choke chain;
      7.   Tethers an animal on a leash of a weight or in such a manner that
prevents the animal from moving freely without entanglement;
      8.   Abandons, overworks, tortures, or torments any animal;
      9.   Unjustifiably kills or injures any animal, or attempts to kill or
injure any animal in a cruel or unjustifiable manner;
      10.   Kills or injures a domestic animal not belonging to him;
      11.   Allows an animal to remain unattended by a competent person in an
enclosed motor vehicle when the outside ambient air temperature exceeds eighty
degrees Fahrenheit (80°F) or confines an animal in an area without adequate air
circulation;
      12.   Crops an animal's ear(s), docks an animal's tail or performs other
surgeries except as a licensed veterinarian of the State of Illinois; or
      13.   Causes, instigates, permits, facilitates, aids, abets, encourages,
or attends any fight or other combat between animals or between animals and
humans.
   B.   Any person who causes, instigates, permits, facilitates, aids, abets,
or encourages any violation of this section shall be guilty of the violation.
   C.   Cruelly treated animals shall be impounded, may be given medical care
at the owner's expense, and may be euthanized at the owner's expense when
appropriate in the judgment of the animal control officer to prevent further
suffering. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
5-1-6: PROHIBITION OF USE OF DOGS IN CONJUNCTION WITH CRIMINAL ACTS:
No person who owns, possesses, or controls any dog shall use the dog to further
a criminal act, nor suffer or permit the dog to be so used. If the dog's
behavior impedes law enforcement efforts to investigate or stop criminal
behavior, to make any stop or arrest, or to serve any warrant or execute any
search or seizure, the dog shall be irrebuttably presumed to have been so used.
In addition to the forfeiture of the dog, any person violating this section
shall be fined no less than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2007-12-10,
12-10-2007)
5-1-7: FORFEITURE OF ABANDONED DOG:
If the owner of the dog cannot be readily ascertained, and no person comes
forward to the animal shelter within seven (7) days of the dog's impoundment to
notify the shelter of the person's ownership of the dog, the dog shall be
disposed of as an abandoned dog. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
5-1-8: MISTREATING, INTERFERING WITH POLICE DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to willingly or maliciously torture,
torment, beat, kick, mutilate, injure, disable, or kill any dog used by the
City Police Department in the performance of the functions or duties of such
department or to interfere with or meddle with any such dog while being used by
the department or any officer or member thereof in the performance of any of
the duties or functions of the department or of such officer or member. (Ord.
2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
5-1-9: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   If a warning in substantially the manner required in subsection B of
this section is first provided, then it shall be unlawful for any person to
own, possess, or keep any animal which makes noise with such frequency, volume,
character, or duration as to disturb the peace and quite of the neighborhood.
   B.   A warning shall mean to make known to the person(s) responsible that
one (1) or more person(s) is annoyed or disturbed by the sound being created.
An oral or written warning shall be given to any person(s) whom the person
issuing the warning reasonably believes to be the owner, possessor, or keeper
of the animal.
   C.   The offense specified by this section shall be an absolute liability
offense and owners of animals that are in violation of disturbing the peace
shall be fined at least seventy five dollars ($75.00) and if said fine is not
paid on or before thirty (30) days from the date of issuance of the citation, a
formal ordinance violation complaint will be filed against the owner in which
case, the City Attorney will request that the court assess a fine no less than
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) and not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) plus court costs against the animal owner. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-
2007)
5-1-10: DISEASED ANIMALS:
No animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall be allowed to
be exposed in any public place where the health of people or animals may be
affected. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
5-1-11: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED - DOGS:
   A.   Every owner of any dog kept in the City limits, or who harbors a dog on
the premises owned or occupied by that person in the City limits, shall have
the dog vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian in compliance with
the State Animal Control Act 1  and to keep the dog properly tagged showing
compliance with this section. If a vaccine capable of conferring immunity for
more than one (1) year is used, additional tags designating those years shall
be obtained and displayed.
   B.   Violation of this section shall be an absolute liability offense.
   C.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined no
less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) for each offense, and a separate offense will be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2007-12-10,
12-10-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
5-1-12: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED - CATS:
   A.   Every owner of any cat kept in the City limits, or who harbors a cat on
the premises owned or occupied by that person in the City limits, shall have
the cat vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian and to keep the
cat properly tagged showing compliance with this section. If a vaccine capable
of conferring immunity for more than one (1) year is used, additional tags
designating those years shall be obtained and displayed.
   B.   Violation of this section shall be an absolute liability offense.
   C.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined no
less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) for each offense, and a separate offense will be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2007-12-10,
12-10-2007)
5-1-13: COLLAR REQUIREMENTS:
Every owner of a dog within the City limits of Toluca shall keep a collar or
harness with the proper rabies tag on the dog. The identification tag shall
contain the owner's name and address. Every owner of a cat within the City
limits of Toluca shall keep current identification with the owner's name and
address on the cat, either by an identification tag or by microchip
identification implanted under the cat's skin. Any dog or cat found within the
City limits without a required collar or harness and tag, or without required
identification, shall be subject to impoundment. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
5-1-14: PROCEDURE AS TO ANIMAL WHICH HAS BITTEN HUMAN BEING OR EXHIBITS SIGNS
OF RABIES:
   A.   This section applies whenever any animal could constitute a rabies
threat. An animal constitutes a rabies threat if the animal has bitten a
person, has been reported to have bitten a person, or exhibits clinical signs
of rabies.
   B.   Whenever any animal constitutes a rabies threat, the owner of the
animal shall immediately notify the animal control officer who in turn shall
notify the person designated by the Marshall County Board as the Administrator
of the provisions of the Animal Control Act 1 , hereinafter referred to as the
Marshall County animal control officer.
   C.   The owner of an animal which constitutes a rabies threat shall
immediately surrender the animal to the custody of the animal control officer
or the Marshall County animal control officer for impoundment. No person
knowing or suspecting that an animal constitutes a rabies threat may allow the
animal to be taken off the person's premises or beyond the City limits without
the written permission of the animal control officer or the Marshall County
animal control officer. If the owner refuses to surrender the animal, the
animal control officer may lawfully enter upon the premises where the animal is
located and may seize and impound it for the purposes of this section.
   D.   Every physician shall, within twelve (12) hours after the physician's
first professional attendance upon any person bitten by a dog or other animal,
report to an animal control officer, the name, age, sex, race and precise
location of the person so bitten. When a physician is not in attendance of a
person bitten by an animal, then any person in charge of or in control of or
responsible for the person bitten shall report the incident to the animal
control officer and provide the name, age, sex, race, and precise location of
the person so bitten.
   E.   Whenever the animal control officer determines that an animal
constitutes a rabies threat, the animal shall be impounded or confined in a
place selected by the animal control officer or the Marshall County animal
control officer and placed under observation of a licensed veterinarian, at the
owner's expense, for a period of ten (10) days, to determine whether the animal
has rabies.
   F.   When evidence is presented that the animal was inoculated against
rabies within the time prescribed by law, it may be confined in the house of
its owner, or in a manner which will prevent it from biting any person or
animal for a period of ten (10) days, if the animal control officer or the
Marshall County animal control officer adjudges such confinement satisfactory,
but only if the animal control officer is afforded the opportunity at any
reasonable time to monitor the animal and examine it for symptoms of rabies. At
any time, the animal control officer may require change in the conditions of
confinement.
   G.   If required under the circumstances, the animal control officer may
summarily destroy an animal that constitutes a rabies threat.
   H.   If the animal is found to be suffering from rabies, it shall be
destroyed.
   I.   If the animal dies while under observation, its head shall be sent to
the State Department of Health for examination for rabies.
   J.   For the purposes of this section, if a trained dog used by law
enforcement officers in the course of their law enforcement activities has
bitten a person, that dog may be confined by having the dog continue in custody
of its police dog handler.
   K.   If an animal is known or suspected to have been bitten by an animal
that constitutes a rabies threat or is otherwise suspected of being affected by
rabies, whether or not the exposed animal has been inoculated against rabies,
the animal control officer may order such confinement or impoundment of the
exposed animal as appropriate.
   L.   An animal that is confined or impound may not be released from
confinement or impoundment, even after the passage of the period of confinement
or impoundment, except upon written findings by a licensed veterinarian,
satisfactory to the animal control officer or warden, that the animal does not
have rabies. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 501 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
5-1-15: KILLING THREATENING ANIMALS:
If any animal shall be found running at large and cannot be taken up or
tranquilized and impounded, such animal may be slain by any police officer or
agent authorized to perform any duty under this chapter, when it is necessary
for the protection of any person or property. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
5-1-16: HOLDING FOR REWARD STRAYED OR STOLEN ANIMALS:
No person shall harbor or hold for reward an animal which strayed upon the
person's premises or which has been picked up on a public street, highway or
other public place unaccompanied by its owner or other person, or which has
been stolen from its owner. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
5-1-17: STRAY ANIMALS:
Any person who picks up any stray animals shall promptly notify the City's
animal control officer or the Marshall County Pound. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-
2007)
5-1-18: DOGS RUNNING-AT-LARGE:
   A.   No owner of any dog shall permit such animal to run at large or to be
on any public right-of-way or property other than that of the owner or a dog-
park designated by the park district without being securely restrained by a
leash or other physical means.
   B.   Any dog running at large is hereby declared a nuisance and may be
impounded as provided in this section.
   C.   If a dog is on the owner's property, it is at large if it is not
contained on the property by means of a fence, chain, leash, competent
supervision, or other visible means of restraint sufficient to protect persons
or animals not on that property. Dogs which are outside of a building or other
enclosure located on the property of the dog's owner shall be restrained by a
leash and controlled by a person physically strong enough to handle the dog.
   D.   The offenses specified by this section are absolutely liability
offenses.
   E.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined
seventy five dollars ($75.00) for each offense if paid on or before thirty (30)
days from the date of issuance of the citation. In the event the seventy five
dollar ($75.00) fine is not paid at City Hall within said thirty (30) days, a
formal ordinance violation complaint will be filed against any person violating
any provision of this section and the City of Toluca will ask the court to
assess a fine no less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) and no more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus court costs. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007;
amd. Ord. 2017-9-11, 9-12-2017; Ord. 2021-9-13)
5-1-19: DETERMINATION OF DANGEROUS DOG:
   A.   After a thorough investigation including: sending, within ten (10)
business days of the animal control officer becoming aware of the alleged
infraction, notifications to the owner of the alleged infractions, the fact of
the initiation of an investigation, and affording the owner an opportunity to
meet with the animal control officer prior to the making of a determination;
gathering of any medical or veterinary evidence; interviewing witnesses; and
making a detailed written report, the law enforcement officer may ask the
animal control officer, his or her designee, to deem a dog "dangerous". No dog
shall be deemed "dangerous" unless shown to be a dangerous dog by a
preponderance of evidence. The owner shall be sent immediate notification of
the determination by registered or certified mail.
   B.   A dog shall not be declared "dangerous" if the animal control officer,
or his or her designee, determines the conduct of the dog was justified
because:
      1.   The threat was sustained by a person who at the time was committing
a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog or was committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon the premises or property occupied by the
owner of the dog;
      2.   The threatened person was abusing, assaulting, or physically
threatening the dog or its offspring;
      3.   The injured, threatened, or killed companion animal was attacking or
threatening to attack the dog or its offspring; or
      4.   The dog was responding to pain or injury or was protecting itself,
its owner, custodian, or a member of its household, kennel, or offspring.
   C.   The animal control officer may order a dangerous dog to be muzzled
whenever it is on public premises in a manner that will prevent it from biting
any person or animal, but that shall not injure the dog or interfere with its
vision or respiration.
   D.   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police owned dogs are exempt from
this section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is
performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under this section,
each such dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with
State law and performing duties as expected. It shall be the duty of the owner
of the exempted dog to notify the animal control officer of changes of address.
In the case of a sentry or guard animal, the owner shall keep the animal
control officer advised of the location where such dog will be stationed. The
animal control officer shall provide Police and Fire Departments with a
categorized list of the exempted dogs and shall promptly notify the departments
of any address changes reported to him or her.
   E.   An animal control agency has the right to impound a dangerous dog if
the owner fails to comply with the requirements of this section.
   F.   The offense specified by this section shall be an absolute liability in
that it will not be necessary to prove any negligence or intent on the part of
the dog owner to violate this section; and owners of dogs that are determined
dangerous shall be fined at least one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) and if
said fine is not paid on or before thirty (30) days from the date of issuance
of the citation, a formal ordinance violation complaint will be filed against
the owner in which case, the City Attorney will request that the court assess a
fine no less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and no more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) plus court costs against the dog owner. (Ord.
2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
   G.   In the event that a dog is determined under this section to be a
dangerous dog, in addition to any other actions that may be required and any
other penalties that may be imposed, the owner and dog may be required to take
a training class approved by the City. Failure to take such a class (if
required) within thirty (30) days after the date of the City's determination
that the dog is a dangerous dog shall be punishable by a fine not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
Each day beyond such thirty (30) day period that the owner fails to take such a
class shall be considered a separate violation. (Ord. 2017-9-11, 9-12-2017)
5-1-20: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   An animal is subject to impoundment if it:
      1.   Is found within the City of Toluca without proper rabies tag or
identification tag;
      2.   Is found to run at large, is lost, is apparently abandoned, or is
otherwise deemed a stray;
      3.   Has been treated cruelly, or is in distress or is in imminent danger
of harm to its safety or health;
      4.   Has bitten any person or animal, or is believed to have otherwise
behaved in a threatening, dangerous, terrorizing, or vicious manner;
      5.   Has been found to be dangerous, unless it has at all times been kept
restrained and muzzled as required by this chapter;
      6.   Is believed to be a source of threat of rabies or other infectious
disease, is otherwise diseased, or presents a hazard to public health;
      7.   Is a female dog or cat that is readily accessible to a male of the
same species during periods of estrus (heat) for said female dog or cat,
whether said female dog or cat is on or off the property of its owner, except
as part of a planned and supervised breeding;
      8.   Has been used in violation of section
5-1-6 of this chapter; or
      9.   Is otherwise subject to impoundment under any other section of this
chapter or of State law. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
5-1-21: NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Immediately after receiving any animal for impounding, it shall be the
duty of the Marshall County Pound to enter upon the records of the pound in a
book to be kept by the Marshall County Pound for such purpose, the date of
impounding, a description of the animal impounded, and a record as to whether
or not such animal has been inoculated and tagged with a proper rabies tag as
required by this chapter.
   B.   Public notice of impounding of such an animal shall be given by posting
one (1) copy of the description of such an animal and date of impoundment at
the pound. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
5-1-22: DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   A.   Dogs, cats and other animals may be redeemed from impoundment only upon
compliance with this chapter and only when otherwise permitted by the Marshall
County animal control officer. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
   B.   No animal may be redeemed from impoundment unless its owner first pays
the redemption fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) and any other cost required by the
City. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007; amd. Ord. 2017-9-11, 9-12-2017)
   C.   If any impounded dog or cat has not been vaccinated against rabies, the
impounder shall notify the County rabies control, giving the name and address
of the owner. No dog or cat that has been impounded may be released unless it
has first been vaccinated for rabies or unless the owner demonstrates that the
animal has a current vaccination against rabies. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
5-1-23: KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall keep or harbor any dangerous animal in violation of
this section within the City. Such animals are hereby declared nuisances and
are subject to impoundment.
   B.   All owners or keepers of animals found to be dangerous must post in
clear view at all times, and in the most conspicuous or prominent point of
entry to the premises, a sign indicating dangerous animal on the premises. Such
sign shall be at least eight and one-half inches (81/2") by eleven inches (11")
in size, and shall contain in words and pictures, a clear indication that a
dangerous dog or animal is on the premises.
   C.   All animals found to be dangerous must be controlled by a leash of no
more than three feet (3') in length and of appropriate strength whenever the
animal is not contained within an enclosed area or structure located on the
owner's or keeper's property from which the animal could not voluntarily leave.
   D.   No person shall transfer, sell or give away to any person within the
City any animal that has been found to be dangerous, unless the transferor,
prior to the transfer, informs the receiving party of the finding and notifies
the animal control officer of the pertinent details of the transfer.
   E.   It is not the intent of this chapter to prohibit law enforcement
officers from using any trained dog that may attack on command, provided that
each such dog must be in the presence of its handler or confined in accordance
with Police Department policy at all times. (Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
5-1-24: ANIMAL WASTE ON PROPERTY OF OWNER:
   A.   Nuisance: The accumulation of animal feces on any private property is
hereby declared a nuisance.
   B.   Accumulation: Every person who is the owner or occupant of private
property or the agent in charge of such property is charged with the duty of
keeping such property free of any accumulation of feces.
   C.   Definition: "Accumulation" for purposes of this section shall mean:
      1.   Any quantity that constitutes a hazard to the health, safety, or
convenience of persons other than the owner of the animal; or
      2.   Any quantity that interferes with the use or enjoyment of any
neighboring property as the result of odors, visual blight, or attraction of
insects or pests.
   D.   Notice To Remove:
      1.   Each owner, occupant, or agent having charge of such property who is
notified in accordance with the provisions set forth herein by the duly
authorized agent of the City to remove such feces shall be charged with the
duty of removing such feces and satisfactorily disposing of the same within
twenty four (24) hours of the effective date/hour of the notice to do so.
      2.   Notice of violation shall set forth in writing the date of
inspection, the address of the property found in violation and the fact that an
accumulation of feces was observed.
      3.   If the premises where an accumulation of feces is found contains
only a single-family dwelling, then notice shall be directed to the occupant of
such premises whether such occupant be the owner or lessee. If the premises
where the accumulation of feces is found contains more than one (1) dwelling
unit, then notice shall be directed to the record owner of such premises or the
agent in charge of the premises.
      4.   The effective date and hour of a notice issued under this section
shall be determined in accordance with how notice was served:
         a.   If copy of the notice is delivered to an owner of record
personally or to any adult occupant of the premises personally or to the agent
in charge of such premises personally, the effective date/hour is the date and
hour so personally served; or
         b.   If copy of the notice is delivered to the usual place of abode of
an owner and left with a person in the owner's family of thirteen (13) years or
older and of suitable discretion, who shall be informed of the contents
thereof, and concurrently, a copy of the notice is sent by first class mail
addressed to the usual place of abode of such owner; said notice becoming
effective upon the date of personal service upon such suitable family member;
or
         c.   If a copy of the notice is sent by certified or registered mail
addressed to an owner of record at his or her last known address and receipt
thereof is returned with the signature of the owner of record, then the
effective date/hour of said notice shall be twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of
the date following the date signed for as evidenced by the return of mail
received.
      5.   Failure of the owner, occupant or agent in charge of such property
to satisfactorily remove and dispose of such feces within twenty four (24)
hours of the effective date/hour of the notice to remove the same shall subject
such person to a fine of no less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not
more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
   E.   Second Or Subsequent Violations - Notice Not Required: After an owner,
occupant or agent having charge of property is once notified of a violation of
this section, and regardless of whether that person complies with that notice,
a second or subsequent instance of accumulation violating this section shall
not require any notice to that person, and shall constitute a violation
subjecting that person to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2007-12-10,
12-10-2007)
5-1-25: REMOVAL OF DOG EXCREMENT FROM PROPERTY OTHER THAN OWNER'S:
   A.   Each owner of a dog shall be responsible for the prompt removal of all
fecal matter deposited by the dog owned by such person, if such deposit of
fecal matter is made on any property which is not owned or possessed under
lease by such person. The fecal matter removed must be disposed of properly.
Any person, when in possession or control of a dog (even though not the owner
of the dog), is responsible for the same duties imposed herein as are imposed
on the owner of the dog.
   B.   A blind person in control of a guide dog shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for repeat offenders.
(Ord. 2007-12-10, 12-10-2007)
CHAPTER 2
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Disorderly Conduct
5-2-2: Discharge Of Weapons
5-2-3: Loitering
5-2-4: Noisy Conditions
5-2-5: Urinating Or Defecating In Public
5-2-6: Gambling And Related Offenses
5-2-7: Possession Of Cannabis
5-2-8: Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
5-2-9: Parking Of Recreational Vehicles On Residential Property
5-2-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of disorderly conduct or of
any conduct tending toward a breach of the peace. The causing or making of any
unnecessary loud noise or yelling shall be considered as disorderly conduct.
(Prior code § 16-1)
5-2-2: DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm or air gun, BB gun, or toy gun
projecting lead or any other missile, except in a regularly established
shooting gallery; provided, that this section shall not be construed to
prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance
of his duty; nor to any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully
defending person or property. (Prior code § 16-2)
5-2-3: LOITERING:
   A.   No person shall loiter in a public place in such manner as to create or
cause to be created a danger of a breach of the peace; create or cause to be
created any disturbance or annoyance of the comfort and repose of any person;
obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or obstruct, molest, or
interfere with any person lawfully in any public place.
   B.   "Loitering", as used in this section, shall mean remaining idle in
essentially one location and shall include the concepts of spending time idly,
loafing, or walking about aimlessly, and shall also include the colloquial
expression "hanging around". The term shall also include the making of
unsolicited remarks of an offensive, disgusting or insulting nature, or which
are calculated to annoy or disturb the person to whom, or in whose hearing,
they are made.
   C.   Whenever the presence of any person in any public place is causing or
is likely to cause any of the conditions enumerated herein, any police officer
may order that person to leave that place. Any person who shall refuse to leave
after being ordered to do so by a police officer shall be guilty of a violation
of this section. (Prior code § 16-4)
5-2-4: NOISY CONDITIONS:
It shall be unlawful to make or cause to be made any noise or sounds of such
volume or of such a nature as to cause annoyance to residents of the city.
(Prior code § 16-5)
5-2-5: URINATING OR DEFECATING IN PUBLIC:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to urinate or defecate in a public place.
"Public place" means any place where the conduct may reasonably be expected to
be viewed by others. (Prior code § 16-6)
5-2-6: GAMBLING AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Gambling Restricted: It shall be unlawful to gamble or attend any
gambling resort or to engage in any activity involving selling any chances or
tickets in any gambling game arrangement or device except as may be permitted
by the state of Illinois pursuant to the Illinois lottery law 1  or pursuant to
the state of Illinois video gaming act 2 . (Ord. 10-9-2012, 10-8-2012)
      1.   Video gaming shall not be permitted in any licensed establishment
unless such licensed establishment has maintained, at a minimum, sixty percent
(60%) of its total revenue annually from the sale of food or beverages.
      2.   Video gaming shall not be permitted in any licensed establishment
which is issued a liquor license by the city after October 1, 2016, unless such
licensed establishment has generated at least eighty percent (80%) of its total
revenue annually from the sale of food or beverages for at least two (2) years
prior to the commencement of video gaming at such licensed establishment. (Ord.
2016-9-12, 9-12-2016)
   B.   Gambling Devices: It shall be unlawful to possess any gambling device
or paraphernalia with the intent to use the same for an unlawful purpose. Any
person possessing gambling devices and/or paraphernalia properly utilized and
registered in accordance with the Illinois lottery law 3  or in accordance with
the state of Illinois video gaming act 4  are exempt from the application of
this section.
   C.   Advertising Gambling: It shall be unlawful to advertise any illegal
gambling activity within the city; except, that advertisements regarding legal
video gaming pursuant to the Illinois video gaming act or for the sale of
lottery tickets pursuant to the Illinois lottery law are exempt from the
application of this section. (Ord. 10-9-2012, 10-8-2012)
   D.   Penalty: Any person, firm, corporation or other entity violating any
provision of this section shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
A separate offense is deemed committed on each day during which a violation
occurs or is permitted to continue. (Ord. 10-9-2012, 10-8-2012; amd. 2015 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 1605/1 et seq.
2 2. 230 ILCS 40/5 et seq.
3 3. 20 ILCS 1605/1 et seq.
4 1. 230 ILCS 40/5 et seq.
5-2-7: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS:
   A.   Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
possess cannabis within the city limits.
   B.   Violations: Any person who violates this section with respect to
possessing:
      1.   Not more than 2.5 grams of any substance containing cannabis is
guilty of violating this section.
      2.   More than 2.5 grams but not more than ten grams (10 g) of any
substance containing cannabis is guilty of violating this section.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person violating subsection B1 of this section shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first such offense or
subsequent offenses.
      2.   Any person violating subsection B2 of this section shall be fined
not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first such offense or
subsequent offenses. (Ord. 2001-1, 3-12-2001)
5-2-8: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Intent: The provisions of this section are intended to be used solely
for the suppression of the commercial traffic in and possession of items that,
within the context of the sale or offering for sale or possession are clearly
and beyond a reasonable doubt marketed for the illegal and unlawful use of
cannabis or controlled substances. To this end, all reasonable and common sense
inferences shall be drawn in favor of the legitimacy of any transaction or
item.
   B.   Possession Prohibited; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly possess an item of drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it in
ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing cannabis or a controlled substance
into the human body, or in preparing cannabis or a controlled substance for
that use, and upon conviction, a minimum fine of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) shall be imposed in addition to any other penalty. In determining
intent, the trier of fact may take into consideration the proximity of the
cannabis or controlled substance to drug paraphernalia or the presence of
cannabis or a controlled substance on the drug paraphernalia.
   C.   Exemptions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to, among other items:
         a.   Items marketed for use in the preparation, compounding,
packaging, labeling or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an
incident to lawful research, teaching or chemical analysis and not for sale; or
         b.   Items marketed for or historically and customarily used in
connection with the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance
(items exempt under this subsection C1b include, but are not limited to, garden
hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes and cigarette rolling papers); or
         c.   Items listed in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/2d which are
marketed for decorative purposes, when such items have been rendered completely
inoperable or incapable of being used for any illicit purpose prohibited by
this section. (Prior code § 16-8)
         d.   A person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes
or needles under the hypodermic needles and syringes act 1 . (2015 Code)
      2.   In determining whether a particular item is exempt under this
subsection C, the trier of fact should consider, in addition to all other
logically relevant factors, the following:
         a.   The general, usual, customary and historical use to which the
item involved has been put.
         b.   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the
item and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the
device upon its functioning.
         c.   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put.
         d.   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the
time and place of the sale or commercial delivery.
         e.   Any national or local advertising concerning the design, purpose
or use of the item involved, and the entire context in which such advertising
occurs.
         f.   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was
displayed for sale, as well as any other item or items displayed for sale or
otherwise exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made.
         g.   Whether the owner or anyone else in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
         h.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
   D.   Forfeiture Of Paraphernalia:
      1.   All drug paraphernalia is subject to forfeiture.
      2.   Such property may be seized by any peace officer upon process issued
by any court having jurisdiction over the property. Judgment in favor of the
city in any proceeding based upon this subsection against a person's specific
property shall serve as process authorizing a peace officer to seize such
property without further process. Seizure by a peace officer may also be made
without process:
         a.   If there is probable cause to believe that the property is
directly dangerous to health or safety and existing circumstances do not allow
reasonable time for the officer to obtain lawful process; or
         b.   In accordance with the Illinois code of criminal procedure.
      3.   The presence of items which are deemed in violation of this section
or are otherwise subject to the forfeiture provisions of this subsection D in
inventory shall not subject the entire inventory to seizure or forfeiture.
      4.   Property taken or detained under this subsection shall not be
subject to replevin, but is deemed to be in the custody of the law enforcement
department or agency employing the seizing officer, subject only to the order
of the circuit court having jurisdiction over the forfeiture proceedings. When
property is seized under this subsection, the chief administrative officer of
the seizing department or agency may place the property under seal, or remove
the property to a place designated by such officer.
      5.   No disposition may be made of property under seal until the validity
of the seizure has been determined in the circuit court, unless such court,
upon application therefor, orders the sale of perishable substances and the
deposit of the proceeds of the sale is with the clerk of the court. The circuit
court shall rule on the validity of the seizure within thirty (30) days after
the seizure, unless a continuance is obtained by a person from whom the items
were seized or a person who otherwise has standing to complain, or by the city
for good cause shown. In no event shall a continuance be granted to the city
pursuant to this subsection beyond thirty (30) days. If judgment is entered in
favor of the person from whom the property is seized, all seized property shall
be returned immediately. Appeals from orders of the circuit court shall be
heard within sixty (60) days from the date judgment is entered. Judgments in
favor of the person entitled to possession of the subject property shall serve
as a mandate to the agency holding said property to return same forthwith.
(Prior code § 16-8)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 635/0.01 et seq.
5-2-9: PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES ON RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY:
   A.   It is unlawful to park a recreational vehicle (as such term is defined
in Section 1-169 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-169)) on any
property zoned R-1 Single Family Residential or R-2 Multi-Family Residential
except as allowed by this Section.
   B.   A Recreational Vehicle may be parked in the rear yard of property zoned
R-1 Single Family Residential or R-2 Multi-Family Residential for up to
fourteen (14) days in any calendar year by a guest of the owner of the property
on which the recreational vehicle is parked; provided, however, that such
recreational vehicle may be used for no purpose other than sleeping. (Ord.
2020-9-3, 9-14- 2020)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Curfew Regulations
5-3-2: Possession Of Tobacco Products
5-3-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: When used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   CURFEW HOURS: 1. Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Saturday;
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on Sunday; and
      3.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is:
      1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person;
or
      2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN: To:
      1.   Linger or stay; or
      2.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   A minor commits a curfew offense when he or she remains in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits a curfew offense when he or she knowingly permits
the minor to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment
during curfew hours.
   C.   Defenses: It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this
section that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
      8.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      9.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of minors act.
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for
being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in subsection C of this section is present.
   E.   Penalties: A violation of this section is a petty offense with a fine
of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00); except, that neither a person who has been made a ward of the court
under the juvenile court act of 1987, nor that person's legal guardian, shall
be subject to any fine. In addition to or instead of the fine imposed by this
section, the court may order a parent, legal guardian, or other person
convicted of a violation of subsection B of this section to perform community
service as determined by the court; except, that the legal guardian of a person
who has been made a ward of the court under the juvenile court act of 1987 may
not be ordered to perform community service. The dates and times established
for the performance of community service by the parent, legal guardian, or
other person convicted of a violation of subsection B of this section shall not
conflict with the dates and times that the person is employed in his or her
regular occupation. (2015 Code)
5-3-2: POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) to possess
any tobacco products, unless that person is under the direct supervision of his
or her parent or guardian in the home of the parent or guardian. "Tobacco
products" means any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco and
dipping tobacco. (Prior code § 16-7)
CHAPTER 4
MISDEMEANORS
SECTION:
5-4-1: State Law Misdemeanors Adopted By Reference
5-4-1:   STATE LAW MISDEMEANORS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
There are adopted by reference, as if set out at length in this code, those
provisions of 720 ILCS 5, the Criminal Code of 1961, which declare any act or
failure to act a misdemeanor. Violation of any such provision shall constitute
a violation of this code and shall subject the violator thereof to punishment
as provided in Chapter 4, General Penalty, of Title 1, Administration, of this
code. (Ord. 2019-9-11, 9-10-2019)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
General Traffic Provisions   1
Parking Regulations   2
Nonhighway Vehicles   3
Inoperable, Abandoned Vehicles   4
Impoundment Of Vehicles   5
Speed Limits   6
State Traffic Code   7
Oversize Vehicles   8
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Control Signs And Signals
6-1-2: Rules Of The Road; State Regulations Adopted
6-1-3: Traffic Schedules Adopted
6-1-4: Overweight Vehicles; Semitractors And Trailers
6-1-5: Vehicle Use On Coal Mine Waste Piles
6-1-6: Skateboards, Bicycles And Rollerblades
6-1-7: Enforcement Of Regulations
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the instructions
of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the city council
or in accordance with the laws of the state of Illinois, excepting on direction
of a police officer. (Prior code § 17-4)
6-1-2: RULES OF THE ROAD; STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city to
violate any provision of the statute commonly known as "rules of the road" 1 ,
as it now exists or may hereafter be amended, and the same is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this title. (Prior code § 17-1)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11.
6-1-3: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES ADOPTED:
Unless otherwise provided in this title, the ordinances of the city
establishing driving restrictions and prohibitions on specific streets in the
city are hereby adopted by reference as if set out at length herein. Copies of
said ordinances are on file in the office of the city clerk for public use and
inspection. (2015 Code)
6-1-4: OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES; SEMITRACTORS AND TRAILERS:
   A.   Overweight Vehicles:
      1.   Restricted: No vehicle in excess of ten thousand (10,000) pounds'
gross vehicle weight may be driven or parked on any street within the city,
except as set forth in subsection A2 of this section.
      2.   Truck Routes Designated:
         a.   Vehicles in excess of ten thousand (10,000) pounds' gross vehicle
weight may operate, if otherwise legal pursuant to the statutes of the state of
Illinois and the ordinances of the city, only on the following streets in the
city:
Atchison Street   East 1 block from its intersection with Route 117
Bennington Street From Walnut Street east to the city limits
Cedar Street      From its intersection with Route 117 south to Railroad Street
Olive Street      That portion extending from its intersection with Santa Fe
                  Street south to Railroad Street
Railroad Street   Any portion within the city limits
Route 117         Main Street south to Railroad Street
Santa Fe Street   Any portion within the city limits
State Highway 117 Any portion within the city limits
Topeka Street     East 1 block from its intersection with Route 117
Walnut Street     From its intersection with Santa Fe Street to its
                  intersection with Bennington Street
3rd Street        Extending from its intersection with State Highway 117 in a
                  westerly direction a distance of 3 blocks
 
         b.   The employees of the city are hereby authorized to erect signs
and markers designating the oversize vehicle truck routes set forth herein.
      3.   Permit To Make Deliveries Required: Deliveries may be made by a
vehicle in excess of ten thousand (10,000) pounds' gross vehicle weight;
provided, that the driver of any such vehicle must receive prior permission to
traverse streets not listed herein by contacting the chief of police of the
city, who shall consult with the appropriate personnel of the public works
department to determine that such travel may be permitted without undue damage
to the streets to be crossed.
      4.   Parking Overweight Vehicles: No semitractor, or any other vehicle
with a gross vehicle weight in excess of ten thousand (10,000) pounds, may be
parked on any street in the city which is in or adjacent to any residential
area. (Ord. 2000-1, 4-10-2000)
   B.   Parking Semitractors And Trailers:
      1.   No semitractor/trailer combination may be parked on any street
within the city, except when making deliveries.
      2.   Semitractors may be parked within the city, provided they are parked
on private property off of city streets and not blocking or resting on city
sidewalks. No parked semitractor may be left running, except when making
deliveries.
      3.   Trailers may be parked within the city limits, but only within areas
designated by the city. (Ord., 9-10-2001)
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first such offense or
violation. Any person who shall be adjudged guilty of violating any provision
of this section a second or subsequent time shall be fined not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each subsequent offense. (Ord., 9-10-2001; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-5: VEHICLE USE ON COAL MINE WASTE PILES:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this section, "vehicles" are defined as
motorized devices utilized for transportation or recreation and include, but
are not limited to, automobiles, trucks, SUVs, four (4) wheel drives, go-carts,
motorcycles and snowmobiles.
   B.   Vehicle Use Prohibited: No vehicle, as defined in subsection A of this
section, may be driven, parked or utilized upon the Toluca Coal Mine waste
piles ("jumbos"), except as set forth in subsection C of this section.
   C.   Exemptions: Emergency vehicles and any other vehicles specifically
authorized by the city, the city police department or the Toluca Sportsman's
Club and/or its lessees shall be allowed to enter and remain upon the Toluca
Coal Mine waste piles ("jumbos") within the times and areas specified by the
authority granted by the appropriate city/sportsman's club department or
individual.
   D.   Penalties: Any person violating this section shall be fined not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first offense or violation. Any
person who shall be adjudged guilty of violating this section a second or
subsequent time shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each subsequent offense. (Ord. 2001-0,
1-8-2001)
6-1-6: SKATEBOARDS, BICYCLES AND ROLLERBLADES:
   A.   Restrictions:
      1.   No person shall ride, operate or utilize skateboards, bicycles,
roller skates, rollerblades or similar devices anywhere in the central business
district of the city, except in designated areas established by the city. The
"central business district" is defined as the 100 block of South Main Street,
the 100, 200 and 300 blocks of North Main Street, the 100 block of East Santa
Fe Street and the 100 block of West Santa Fe Street. (Ord., 10-9-2000; amd.
2015 Code)
      2.   No person shall ride, operate or utilize skateboards, bicycles,
roller skates, rollerblades or similar devices in a reckless manner on any
public street or public sidewalk.
      3.   No person shall ride, operate or utilize skateboards, bicycles,
roller skates, rollerblades or similar devices on any public street or public
sidewalk without exercising due care for the safety of other persons.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each offense. (Ord., 10-9-2000)
6-1-7: ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Police Officers: Members of the police department, and special police
assigned to traffic duty, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this title, or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police
officer. (Prior code § 17-2)
   B.   Scene Of Fire: The fire protection district officer in command, or any
firefighter designated by him, may exercise the powers and authority of a
police officer in directing traffic at the scene of any fire or where the fire
protection district has responded to an emergency call, for so long as fire
equipment is on the scene, in the absence of or in assisting the police. (Prior
code § 17-3; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Unauthorized Directing Of Traffic: Except in case of emergencies, it
shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by law to direct or attempt to
direct traffic. (Prior code § 17-2)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Angle Parking
6-2-2: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
6-2-3: Parking During Snowfall
6-2-4: Towing Illegally Parked Vehicles
6-2-5: Penalty
6-2-1: ANGLE PARKING:
The chief of police shall determine upon what streets or portions of streets
angle parking shall be permitted and shall line or mark such streets. Upon
those streets which have been so lined or marked, it shall be unlawful to park
or stand a vehicle across any such lines or markings or to park or stand the
same so that such vehicle shall not be entirely within the area designated by
such lines or markings. (Prior code § 18-3)
6-2-2: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
The city council shall designate areas where parking is limited or prohibited,
and shall cause signs to be posted in such areas. In addition, it shall be
unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand at any time in any of the following
places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or a traffic control device:
   A.   In any intersection.
   B.   In a crosswalk.
   C.   Upon any bridge or viaduct, or any subway or tunnel or the approach
thereto.
   D.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet (30')
of a point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone.
   E.   Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on the
approaching side.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection or crosswalk.
   G.   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than eighteen feet (18').
   H.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   I.   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway.
   J.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing. (Prior code § 18-1)
   K.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance of any fire station
and, on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such station,
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance when properly posted. (Prior
code § 18-1; amd. 2015 Code)
   L.   On any sidewalk or parkway.
   M.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking. (Prior code § 18-1)
6-2-3: PARKING DURING SNOWFALL:
   A.   Parking Prohibitions:
      1.   Parking shall be automatically prohibited on any part of any street
within the city upon which there has been an accumulation of snow and/or ice of
one inch (1") or more. Such prohibition shall remain in effect from two o'clock
(2:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the day after the snowfall or other
weather condition which has caused such accumulation.
      2.   Parking shall also be prohibited on any part of any street within
the city at any time when, in the judgment of the city public works
superintendent, such prohibition is necessary for the removal of snow and/or
ice from said street. A prohibition under this subsection shall become
effective eight (8) hours after notices are posted, and notices are placed on
each car parked, on the portions of the street where the prohibition is to take
effect, and shall continue for such time as is stated in said notices.
   B.   Penalties: The following penalties shall apply with respect to
violations of this section:
      1.   The owner of any vehicle parked in violation of this section shall
be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) for the first offense, not
less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for the second offense, and not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for the third and all subsequent
offenses.
      2.   In addition to the penalties set forth in subsection B1 of this
section, the city may cause any vehicle parked in violation of this section to
be towed, and the owner of said vehicle shall be liable to the city for the
costs of towing and storage of the vehicle. (Ord. 2014-8-11-2, 8-11-2014)
6-2-4: TOWING ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
Any vehicle illegally parked may be removed and towed away. The police
department is hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and
towed away by a commercial towing service, any such car or other vehicle parked
in violation of this chapter. Vehicles so towed away shall be stored in a safe
place and shall be returned to the owner or operator upon payment of a fee as
determined by the mayor and city council. (Prior code § 18-2; amd. 2015 Code)
6-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person accused of unlawfully parking a vehicle may settle and compromise
the claim against him or her by paying to the city fifty dollars ($50.00) for
each such offense within fourteen (14) days of the offense. This section shall
not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or exit
of any place where police or fire apparatus or other emergency equipment is
kept or housed; nor shall this section apply to any person charged with parking
a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any street or alley, or parking
in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial street to one-way traffic
only; nor to any person who refuses to move a vehicle illegally parked at the
request of any member of the police department. (Prior code § 18-4; amd. 2015
Code)
CHAPTER 3
NONHIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Findings
6-3-2: Definition
6-3-3: Permit Requirements
6-3-4: Compliance With Provisions; Permitted Use Of City Streets
6-3-5: Driver's License And Insurance Required
6-3-6: Crossing Roadways
6-3-7: Equipment Requirements
6-3-8: Driving Under The Influence Prohibited
6-3-9: Penalties
6-3-1: FINDINGS:
   A.   The city has determined that the public safety will not be jeopardized
as a result of authorizing the operation of nonhighway vehicles on streets
within the city.
   B.   The city has determined that the volume, speed, and character of
traffic on the streets of the city will not be adversely affected by the
operation of nonhighway vehicles. Further, nonhighway vehicles may safely
operate on or cross the streets located within the city, and the city will post
appropriate signs to authorize and regulate the operation of nonhighway
vehicles on city streets. (Ord. 2010-4, 7-12-2010)
6-3-2: DEFINITION:
 
                    As contemplated by this chapter, means a motor vehicle not
NONHIGHWAY VEHICLE: specifically designed to be used on a public highway. (Ord.
                    2014-8-11-3, 8-11-2014; amd. Ord. 2024-2-13, 2-12-2024)
 
6-3-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall operate a nonhighway vehicle without
first obtaining a permit from the chief of police as provided herein.
   B.   Application For Permit: Every application for a permit shall be made on
a form supplied by the city and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant.
      2.   Name and liability insurance carrier and policy number.
      3.   Serial number, make, model and description of the nonhighway
vehicle.
      4.   Signed waiver of liability by the applicant releasing the city and
its employees, and agreeing to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any
and all future claims resulting from the operation of their nonhighway vehicle
on the city streets in the form attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified
herein.
      5.   Photocopy of the applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the nonhighway vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit.
      6.   Photocopy of a valid driver's license.
   C.   Permit Fee: The cost of the permit is thirty dollars ($30.00).
   D.   Conditions Of Permit: No permit shall be granted unless the following
conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be inspected by the chief of police or designated
person to ensure that the vehicle is safe to operate on city streets and is in
compliance with this chapter and with the state of Illinois vehicle code.
      2.   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes regarding minimum liability
insurance for a passenger motor vehicle to be operated on the roads of the
state of Illinois.
   E.   Term Of Permit: Permits shall be granted for a period of one year
beginning on January 1 of every year.
   F.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit: The city may suspend or revoke a
permit granted hereunder upon a finding that the holder thereof has violated
any provision of this chapter or there is evidence that the permittee cannot
safely operate the nonhighway vehicle on the city streets.
   G.   Permits issued under this Chapter must be placed on the front or rear
windshield of the Nonhighway Vehicle in a location so as to be easily seen.
(Ord. 2015-4-1, 4-13-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-2-13, 2-12-2024)
6-3-4: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; PERMITTED USE OF CITY STREETS:
Subject to compliance with all the provisions of this chapter, a nonhighway
vehicle may be operated only on city streets where the posted speed limit is
thirty five (35) miles per hour or less. However, a nonhighway vehicle may
cross a road or street at an intersection where the road or street has a posted
speed limit of more than thirty five (35) miles per hour subject to the
provisions of section
6-3-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-4, 7-12-2010)
6-3-5: DRIVER'S LICENSE AND INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Driver's License: A person may not operate a nonhighway vehicle upon
any street, highway, or roadway in the city unless he or she has a valid
driver's license issued in his or her name by the secretary of state.
   B.   Insurance: Any person who operates a nonhighway vehicle on a city
street, highway or roadway shall be subject to the mandatory insurance
requirements under chapter 7, article VI of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord.
2010-4, 7-12-2010)
6-3-6: CROSSING ROADWAYS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsections B and C of this section, no person
operating a nonhighway vehicle shall make a direct crossing upon or across any
highway under the jurisdiction of the state, toll road, interstate highway, or
controlled access highway in this state.
   B.   A person may make a direct crossing at an intersection controlled by a
traffic light or four-way stop sign upon or across a highway under the
jurisdiction of the state if the speed limit on the highway is thirty five (35)
miles per hour or less at the place of crossing.
   C.   The designated streets for crossing any state highway (other than those
controlled by a traffic light or 4-way stop sign) are as follows: north and
south crossings shall only be permitted on Grant Street and Chestnut Street;
east and west crossings shall only be permitted on 1st Street and 2nd Street.
(Ord. 2010-4, 7-12-2010)
6-3-7: EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
No nonhighway vehicles may be operated on a city roadway unless, at a minimum,
it has the following: brakes, a steering apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror,
red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear, a slow moving emblem 1
on the rear of the nonhighway vehicle, a headlight that emits a white light
visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front; a taillamp
that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred feet (100') from the
rear, brake lights, and turn signals. Further, when any nonhighway vehicle is
operated on a city roadway, a nonhighway vehicle shall have its headlight and
taillamps lighted as required by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-201. (Ord.
2010-4, 7-12-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. As required of other vehicles in 625 ILCS 5/12-709.
6-3-8: DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE PROHIBITED:
A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a nonhighway vehicle on
a city roadway while under the influence is subject to 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-500 through 5/11-502. (Ord. 2010-4, 7-12-2010)
6-3-9: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
petty offense and shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00). Any subsequent offense shall result in the revocation
of any permit granted under this chapter for a period of not less than one year
nor more than three (3) years, as determined by the city. To the extent that
any violation of this chapter also constitutes a violation of a criminal
statute of the state of Illinois, then the violator shall also be subject to
criminal prosecution. (Ord. 2015-4-1, 4-13-2015)
CHAPTER 4
INOPERABLE, ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Inoperable, Abandoned Vehicles On Public Property
6-4-3: Inoperable Vehicles On Private Property
6-4-4: Abandoned Vehicles On Private Property
6-4-5: Parking Vehicles With Expired Registration Stickers Prohibited
6-4-6: Penalties
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms have the following meanings:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE: As defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101.05,
an "abandoned vehicle" is any vehicle in a state of disrepair rendering the
vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition or any motor vehicle that
has not been moved or used for seven (7) consecutive days or more and is
apparently deserted.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: As defined in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
40-3, an "inoperable motor vehicle" is any motor vehicle from which, for a
period of at least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels, tires, or other parts
have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels, or other parts have been
altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of
being driven under its own motor power. In addition to the above, any motor
vehicle that is not insured and licensed in accordance with state law shall be
deemed an "inoperable motor vehicle". "Inoperable motor vehicle" shall not
include a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being
driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations nor to any motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in
use, nor to any operable vehicle over twenty five (25) years of age which has
been licensed as an antique vehicle by the Illinois secretary of state, nor to
a motor vehicle on a premises lawfully engaged in the wrecking and junking of
motor vehicles.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: As defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-146, a
"motor vehicle" means every vehicle which is self- propelled including, but not
necessarily limited to, all varieties of passenger vehicles designed to operate
on the highways, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational vehicles and all-
terrain vehicles, except for vehicles moved solely by human power, motorized
wheelchairs, low speed electric bicycles and low speed gas bicycles.
   PERSON: Any human being, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY: Any real property, public or private, within the corporate limits
within the city of Toluca that is not a street or highway.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel. (Ord. 2008-4, 4-14-2008; amd. 2015 Code; Ord.
2016-4-11, 4-11-2016)
6-4-2: INOPERABLE, ABANDONED VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Inoperable or abandoned motor vehicles which are on public property, a street
or a highway are hereby declared a nuisance. They shall be towed or otherwise
dealt with by the police department in accordance with procedures set forth in
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 4-201 et seq., which is herein incorporated by
reference, together with all future amendments thereto. (Ord. 2008-4, 4-14-
2008; amd. 2015 Code)
6-4-3: INOPERABLE VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Inoperable motor vehicles on private property are
hereby declared a nuisance.
   B.   Notice To Remove:
      1.   Whenever a police officer discovers an inoperable motor vehicle on
private property, the officer shall determine the owner of record of the
property, and if the vehicle has a license plate, the owner of the vehicle. The
officer shall attempt to determine the identity of persons occupying the
property if different from the owner of record. The officer shall cause a
notice in substantially the following form to be mailed, by certified U.S.
mail, return receipt requested, or by personal delivery to the owner of record
of the property, and to all persons known to the officer, after reasonable
investigation, to occupy such property, and also to the owner of the motor
vehicle, if the owner is known: (Ord. 2008-4, 4-14-2008)
NOTICE TO REMOVE OR REPAIR INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the Police Department of the City of Toluca, Illinois,
has determined that there exists an inoperable motor vehicle, generally
described as follows and hereinafter referred to as "The Vehicle":
Make:    
Model:    
Model Year, if known:       
Color:    
License No., if known:           State:    
Other identifying characteristics:          
            
            
            
The Vehicle is currently located on the following property:
Address:             
The Vehicle is in violation of Title 6, Chapter 4 of the Toluca City Code which
prohibits inoperable motor vehicles on private property within the corporate
limits of the City.
You are hereby ordered to remove or repair such inoperable vehicle within 7
calendar days from the date of service of this Notice, if it has been hand-
delivered, or within 11 calendar days from the date of mailing of this notice,
if it was mailed by certified mail.
Title 6, Chapter 4 of the Toluca City Code provides that any person violating
its provisions is subject to a fine of not less than $250.00 nor more than
$750.00 for each day a violation is allowed to continue. If the City must
prosecute you for having an inoperable motor vehicle, it may seek fines
beginning from the date of this Notice.
If you fail to remove or repair the inoperable motor vehicle by the date set
forth in this notice, the City may remove the inoperable vehicle, or may hire
someone to do so.
Any person ordered to repair or remove an inoperable vehicle may have a hearing
with the Chief of Police. A request for a hearing must be made in writing and
delivered to the Municipal Clerk no later than seven days after the date of
service of this notice, if served personally; or eleven days after the date of
mailing of this notice, if it was mailed. If no hearing is requested, or if the
Chief determines after the hearing that the vehicle is indeed inoperable, the
vehicle may be towed without further notice.
Definitions: As used in this notice, "inoperable motor vehicle" as defined in
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-40-3, an "inoperable motor vehicle" is any
motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven (7) days, the engine,
wheels, tires, or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine,
wheels, or other parts have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated that
the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power. In addition
to the above, any motor vehicle that is not insured and licensed in accordance
with state law shall be deemed an "inoperable motor vehicle". "Inoperable motor
vehicle" shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily
incapable of being driven under its own motor power in order to perform
ordinary service or repair operations nor to any motor vehicle that is kept
within a building when not in use, nor to any operable vehicle over twenty five
(25) years of age which has been licensed as an antique vehicle by the Illinois
Secretary of State, nor to a motor vehicle on a premises lawfully engaged in
the wrecking and junking of motor vehicles.
"Repair" means to take such action as is required to make an inoperable motor
vehicle capable of being driven under its own power.
  This Notice is dated this        day of           , 20      .
 
                  
            Signature
(Ord. 2008-4, 4-14-2008; amd. Ord. 2016-4-11, 4-11-2016)
      2.   Notice by certified mail pursuant to this section shall be
accomplished if the city receives a return receipt from the addressee or if the
certified or regular mailing is returned "unclaimed" or "refused". (Ord. 2008-
4, 4-14-2008)
   C.   Removal By City: In the event that a violation of section
6-4-2 of this chapter or this section is not corrected within the time
specified in the notice, or if there is a hearing conducted by the chief of
police in accordance with the notice, and the chief determines that the vehicle
is inoperable, then, within five (5) days after the hearing, the police
department may proceed to tow and dispose of the inoperable motor vehicle in
accordance with the procedures set forth in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-
201 et seq., which is herein incorporated by reference. (Ord. 2008-4, 4-14-
2008; amd. 2015 Code)
6-4-4: ABANDONED VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
Vehicles which are not inoperable, but which are abandoned in the sense of not
having been moved for seven (7) consecutive days or more and being apparently
deserted and on private property, may be removed by the police department and
otherwise dealt with in accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-201
et seq., but only if: (Ord. 2008-4, 4-14-2008; amd. 2015 Code)
   A.   The owner of the property on which the vehicle was abandoned is
different from the owner of the vehicle; and
   B.   The owner of the property on which the vehicle was abandoned requests
the police department to take action; and
   C.   If approved by the chief of police in his sole discretion. (Ord. 2008-
4, 4-14-2008)
6-4-5: PARKING VEHICLES WITH EXPIRED REGISTRATION STICKERS PROHIBITED:
No person may stop, park, or leave standing upon a public street, highway, or
roadway a vehicle upon which is displayed an Illinois registration plate or
plates or registration sticker after the termination of the registration period
for which the registration plate or sticker was issued or after the expiration
date set by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-414 or 5/3-414.1. (Ord. 2008-4,
4-14-2008)
6-4-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates or aids and abets in the violation of this
chapter shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and
not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), plus the cost to the city
to tow or to make a disposition on the abandoned, unclaimed, or inoperable
vehicle. Each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   In addition to the remedies set forth in this chapter and in 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 et seq., the city may bring a common law
nuisance action against a person who is responsible for a nuisance as defined
in this chapter and, in connection therewith, may seek all remedies available
in law or equity in connection with such an action, and shall be entitled as
part of the action to an award of its attorney fees and costs. (Ord. 2008-4, 4-
14-2008)
   C.   In addition to any other remedies, the corporate authorities may at any
time instruct the city attorney to file a lawsuit in the county circuit court
seeking any or all remedies available in the Illinois municipal code respecting
abatement of nuisances. (Ord. 2008-4, 4-14-2008; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 5
IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Vehicles Subject To Impoundment
6-5-2: Notice Of Impoundment
6-5-3: Administrative Hearing
6-5-4: Administrative Fee And Other Charges
6-5-1: VEHICLES SUBJECT TO IMPOUNDMENT:
A motor vehicle used in the commission of, or in the attempt to commit, any of
the following offenses is subject to impoundment:
   A.   An offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and forfeited
pursuant to section 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 1961 1 ; or
   B.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
section 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 2 ; or
   C.   A felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act 3 ; or
   D.   An offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act 4 ;
or
   E.   An offense in violation of section 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-3.1 of the
Criminal Code of 1961 5 ; or
   F.   Driving while a driver's license, permit or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to section 6-303 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code 6  provided, however, that a vehicle shall not be subjected to
seizure or impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid parking or moving
citation or due to the failure to comply with emission testing; or
   G.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act; or
   H.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's license,
in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 7  provided that the
period of expiration is greater than one year; or
   I.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit, in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code 8 , or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit due to a person's age; or
   J.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a Circuit Clerk in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated the following sections of the Illinois Vehicle Code:
      1.   Section 6-1 9 , requiring drivers to have licenses or permits; or
      2.   Section 6-303 10 , driving while a driver's license, permit or
privilege to operate a motor vehicle is suspended or revoked; or
      3.   Section 11-501 11 , driving while under the influence of alcohol,
other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination
thereof; or
   K.   An offense in violation of article 16 (theft and related offenses) of
the Criminal Code of 1961 12 .
Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor vehicle is subject
to impoundment, the officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a
facility designated by the City's Police Department.
   L.   A vehicle parked in violation of Chapter 8, Oversize Vehicles, of this
Title 6. (Ord. 2018-2-13, 2-12-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-9-2, 9-14-2020)
 
Notes
1  1. 720 ILCS 5/36-1.
2  2. 625 ILCS 5/11-501.
3  3. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
4  4. 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.
5  5. 720 ILCS 5/24-1, 24-1.5 or 24-3.1.
6  6. 625 ILCS 5/6-303.
7  1. 625 ILCS 5/6-101.
8  2. 625 ILCS 5/6-101.
9  3. 625 ILCS 5/6-101.
10 4. 625 ILCS 5/6-303.
11 5. 625 ILCS 5/11-501.
12 6. 720 ILCS 5/art. 16.
6-5-2: NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   At the time the vehicle is towed, the Police Department shall notify or
make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee, or person identifying
himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is
found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of
the fact of the seizure, and of the vehicle owner's or lessee's right to an
administrative hearing.
   B.   The Police Department shall also provide notice that the motor vehicle
will remain impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing,
unless the owner or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder posts with the City a
bond equal to the administrative fee as provided by this chapter and pays for
all towing and storage charges. (Ord. 2018-2-13, 2-12-2018)
6-5-3: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   An impounded vehicle may be released pending the completion of an
administrative hearing if the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle or a
lienholder of record posts with the City a bond equal to the administrative fee
as provided by this chapter and pays for all towing and storage charges or
waives the right to a hearing and pays the administrative fees as provided by
this section and pays for all towing and storage charges.
   B.   The City shall provide the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle
and any lienholder of record notice of the administrative hearing. The notice
shall:
      1.   Be served upon the registered owner, lessee, and any lienholder of
record either by personal service or by first class mail to the interested
party's address as registered with the Secretary of State;
      2.   Be served upon interested parties within ten (10) days after a
vehicle is impounded by the City; and
      3.   Set forth the date, time, and location of the administrative
hearing. An initial hearing, unless waived, shall be scheduled and convened no
later than forty five (45) days after the date of the mailing of the notice of
hearing.
   C.   The hearing shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer who is an attorney
licensed to practice law in Illinois for a minimum of three (3) years.
   D.   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the Hearing Officer
shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the vehicle
impoundment.
   E.   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the
Administrative Hearing Officer:
      1.   Any administrative fee posted to secure the release of the vehicle
shall be forfeited to the City; and
      2.   No vehicle shall be released to the registered owner, lessee, or
lienholder of record until the administrative fee and all towing and storage
charges are paid.
   F.   All final decisions of the Administrative Hearing Officer shall be
subject to review under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law 1  and
shall be commenced by filing an action in the Circuit Court of the Tenth
Judicial Circuit, Marshall County, Illinois, in accordance with section 3-104
of the Code of Civil Procedure 2 .
   G.   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any administrative
fee imposed under this chapter or towing and storage which remains unpaid in
whole or in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial
review under the Administrative Review Law may be enforced in the same manner
as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2018-2-13, 2-
12-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
2 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-104.
6-5-4: ADMINISTRATIVE FEE AND OTHER CHARGES:
   A.   An administrative fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00) is imposed
upon the registered owner of an impounded motor vehicle or the agents of any
such owner.
   B.   The fee imposed in this section shall be collected by and paid to the
City. The fee imposed by this section is in addition to:
      1.   Any other penalties that may be assessed by a court of law for the
underlying violations; and
      2.   Any towing or storage fees, or both, charged by the person, firm, or
entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
The administrative fee shall be waived by the City upon verifiable proof that
the vehicle was stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded.
   C.   Towing and storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid to the
person, firm, or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle. (Ord. 2018-
2-13, 2-12-2018)
CHAPTER 6
SPEED LIMITS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Speed - Generally
6-6-2: Speed - Limits In Business Districts
6-6-3: Speed - Limits In Residential Districts
6-6-4: Speed - Special Limits In Certain Areas
6-6-5: Speed - Limit While Passing Schools
6-6-6: Speed - Penalty
6-6-1: SPEED - GENERALLY:
No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of this city at a speed which is
greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic conditions and the
use of the highway, or endangers the safety of any person or property. The fact
that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit
does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when approaching
and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going around a curve, when
approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, or
when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by
reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or entering the
highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to
use due care. In the event of a charge of violation of this section, the
complaint and the summons or notice to appear shall specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven, also the prima facie speed applicable
within the district or at the location. (Ord. 2019-9-14, 9-9-2019)
6-6-2: SPEED - LIMITS IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS:
A reasonable and safe absolute maximum speed limit for all vehicles on all
streets in the business districts of the city, except those streets under the
jurisdiction of the department of public works and buildings of the state, on
the basis of a traffic investigation has been determined and is declared to be
twenty (20) miles per hour, as shown by appropriate signs which have been
erected along the streets, and no vehicle shall be driven at a speed in excess
of twenty (20) miles per hour on any street in any business district, other
than a street which is under the jurisdiction of such department. (Ord. 2019-9-
14, 9-9-2019)
6-6-3: SPEED - LIMITS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
A reasonable and safe absolute maximum speed limit for all vehicles on all
streets in the residential districts of the city, except those streets under
the jurisdiction of the department of public works and buildings of the state;
on the basis of a traffic investigation has been determined and is declared to
be twenty five (25) miles per hour, as shown by appropriate signs which have
been erected along the streets, and no vehicle shall be driven at a speed in
excess of twenty five (25) miles per hour on any street in any residential
district, other than a street which is under the jurisdiction of the
department. (Ord. 2019-9-14, 9-9-2019)
6-6-4: SPEED - SPECIAL LIMITS IN CERTAIN AREAS:
It is unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street not under the
jurisdiction of the state or the county or in an urban district within the city
at a speed in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour, or in an alley at a speed
in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour. It is unlawful to drive any vehicle
on any highway outside the urban district at a speed of more than that
permitted by state law. If the city council sets other limits by ordinance as
provided by statute after an engineering or traffic survey, such limits shall
govern the rate of speed on the streets indicated in such ordinance.
Appropriate signs shall be posted showing such speed limits. It is unlawful to
drive any vehicle on any street or highway within the city at a speed exceeding
that lawfully set for such street. (Ord. 2019-9-14, 9-9-2019)
6-6-5: SPEED - LIMIT WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS:
No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty (20) miles
per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any public
thoroughfare on or across which children pass going to and from school during
school days when schoolchildren are present. This section is not applicable
unless appropriate signs are posted to indicate the restriction. Such signs
shall give proper due warning that a school zone is being approached and shall
indicate the school zone and the maximum speed limit in effect during school
days when schoolchildren are present. (Ord. 2019-9-14, 9-9-2019)
6-6-6: SPEED - PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating this chapter shall be fined per
Chapter 4, General Penalty, of Title 1, Administration, of this code. (Ord.
2019-9-14, 9-9-2019)
CHAPTER 7
STATE TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
6-7-1:      State Traffic Code Adopted
6-7-1: STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   The following chapters of the Illinois Vehicle Code are adopted by
reference as if fully set out herein: 625 ILCS Ch. 5/11 (Illinois Rules of the
Road), 625 ILCS Ch. 5/12 (Illinois Vehicle Equipment Law) and 625 ILCS Ch. 5/15
(Illinois Size and Weight Law).
   B.   The penalty for violation of any provision of the Illinois Vehicle Code
adopted by reference in this section shall be the penalty specified for the
violation by the Illinois Vehicle Code. Where the Illinois Vehicle Code does
not provide a specific penalty for the violation, the penalty shall be per
Chapter 4, General Penalty, of Title 1, Administration, of this code. (Ord.
2019-9-13, 9-9-2019)
CHAPTER 8
OVERSIZE VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definition
6-8-2: Prohibition
6-8-3: Nuisance
6-8-4: Exceptions
6-8-1: DEFINITION:
Oversize Vehicle shall mean any Vehicle: Second Division (as defined in Section
1-217 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-217)), truck tractor, bus,
trailer, house trailer, recreational vehicle, special mobile equipment, boat or
airplane. (Ord. 2020-9-2, 9-14-2020)
6-8-2: PROHIBITION:
Except as provided in Section
6-8-4 below, it is unlawful for any person to park any oversize vehicle within
any alley, highway, street, right-of-way or other public property within the
vity. (Ord. 2020-9-2, 9-14-2020)
6-8-3: NUISANCE:
Every oversize vehicle parked in violation of Section
6-8-2 above is declared a nuisance, which may be abated by the city by removing
and impounding such oversize vehicle in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5 of this Title 6. (Ord. 2020-9-2, 9-14-2020)
6-8-4: EXCEPTIONS:
Section
6-8-2 above shall not apply:
   A.   To an emergency situation or vehicle breakdown; provided, however, that
the oversize vehicle shall be moved within forty-eight (48) hours.
   B.   When the operator of the oversize vehicle is actively engaged in
deliveries, lawn maintenance, construction or other trade activity upon
property abutting the location at which the oversize vehicle is parked;
provided, however, that the oversize vehicle shall not obstruct traffic flow on
any right of way, any traffic control device or sight lines at any
intersection;
   C.   In an area zoned B Commercial, I-1 Light Industrial or I-2 Heavy
Industrial for a period of not more than sixty (60) minutes when the operator
is on a meal or rest break; and
   D.   To all noncommercial and commercial pickup trucks with a manufacturer's
rated load capacity not exceeding one (1) ton in weight. (Ord. 2020-9-2, 9-14-
2020)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Streets, Sidewalks And Public Ways   1
Street Names And Property Numbers   2
Activities On Unimproved Platted Alleys   3
Trees And Shrubs   4
Small Wireless Facilities   5
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Supervision And Enforcement Official
7-1-2: Construction Requirements
7-1-3: Repairs
7-1-4: Excavations
7-1-5: Use Of Public Ways
7-1-6: Barricades And Warning Lights
7-1-7: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-1-8: Deposits On Streets
7-1-9: Driveways
7-1-1: SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the
supervision of the superintendent of public works. He shall have supervision
over all work thereon, and the cleaning thereof, and shall be charged with the
enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to such public places (except
traffic ordinances) and is hereby authorized to enforce such ordinances. (Prior
code § 12-1-1)
7-1-2: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement
on any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the
same, without having first secured a permit therefor.
   B.   Application For Permit; Issuance: Application for such permit shall be
made to the city clerk and shall state the location of the intended pavement or
repair, the extent thereof, and the person or firm who is to do the actual
construction work. No such permit shall be issued except on order of the mayor
and the city council. (Prior code § 12-1-2)
   C.   Bond Required: Each applicant shall file a bond, in an amount and with
sureties to be approved by the mayor and the city council, conditioned to
indemnify the city from any loss or damage resulting from the work undertaken
or the manner of doing the same. (Prior code § 12-1-3)
   D.   Specifications: All street and sidewalk pavements shall be constructed
in conformity with the specifications laid down from time to time by the mayor
and the city council. (Prior code § 12-1-4)
7-1-3: REPAIRS:
All public street, alley and sidewalk pavements shall be in good repair. Such
repair work, whether done by the city or the abutting owner, shall be under the
supervision of the superintendent of public works. (Prior code § 12-1-6)
7-1-4: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in or
tunnel under any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the
city without having first secured a permit therefor.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for such permit shall be made to
the city clerk and shall specify the intended locations and purpose of the
excavation.
   C.   Bond Required: No person shall make any such excavation or tunnel
without first having secured and furnished the city with a copy of or
certificate of a bond or policy in an amount to be approved by the city council
conditioned to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any loss, damage or
liability resulting from the work done or any acts or omissions in connection
therewith.
   D.   Restoration Of Excavated Area: Any person making any such excavation
shall refill the same properly and shall restore the surface to its condition
before the excavation was made, as soon as possible.
   E.   Supervision: All excavations, refills, and resurfacing shall be made
subject to the supervision and under the direction of the superintendent of
public works. (Prior code § 12-1-15)
7-1-5: USE OF PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Private Use: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation
to use any street, sidewalk or other public place as space for the display of
goods or merchandise for sale, or to write or mark any signs or advertisements
on the pavements thereof. (Prior code § 12-1-10)
   B.   Poles And Wires: It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or
maintain any poles and wires over any public place, street, alley or other
public way without having first secured permission from the mayor and city
council. (Prior code § 12-1-13)
   C.   Gasoline Pumps: It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline
pump or tank in any public street, alley or sidewalk without having first
secured a permit therefor from the mayor and city council. No such permit shall
be issued until the applicant furnishes a bond to indemnify the city against
loss or liability for any loss or liability occasioned by such tank or pump, or
fixtures thereto, in an amount to be approved by the city council.
   D.   Camping: It is unlawful to camp, or erect or use for residential
purposes, any tent, shelter, motor home, trailer or other similar equipment or
device upon any public property within the city (owned or leased by the city)
including, but not limited to, streets, alleys and parks, without first having
secured a permit therefor from the City Council on such terms and conditions
deemed appropriate by the City Council. (Ord. 2020-9-4, 9-14-2020)
7-1-6: BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS:
   A.   Required:
      1.   Any person, firm, or corporation laying or repairing any pavement on
a street, sidewalk, or other public place or making an excavation in or
adjacent to the same, shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury of
any person or vehicle by reason of the work. Such barricades shall be protected
by suitable lights at nighttime.
      2.   Any defect in such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent injury.
      3.   Any person, firm, or corporation properly maintaining any opening or
excavation in any public place, while the same remains open, shall guard such
opening or excavation by proper barricades and lights. (Prior code § 12-1-8)
   B.   Disturbing Barricades Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to disturb or
interfere with any barricades or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any
new pavement or excavation or opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk.
(Prior code § 12-1-9)
7-1-7: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Injury To Pavements: It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any
vehicle or animal upon, or injure any newly laid street or alley pavement while
the same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade; or to knowingly injure any
street, sidewalk, or alley pavement. (Prior code § 12-1-5)
   B.   Obstructions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to cause,
create or maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public way, except as may be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the
superintendent of public works. (Prior code § 12-1-7)
      2.   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or
alley. (Prior code § 12-1-12)
   C.   Encroachments: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building
or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property. (Prior code §
12-1-11)
7-1-8: DEPOSITS ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material which may be harmful
to the pavement thereof, or which may cause injury to any person, animal or
property. Materials may be deposited in streets preparatory to delivery for use
for a reasonable time, upon permission by the superintendent of public works.
(Prior code § 12-1-16)
7-1-9: DRIVEWAYS:
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any driveway in or across any
public walk in the city without having first obtained a permit therefor from
the city council. Any part of any such driveway which is also used as a
sidewalk shall be constructed of at least five inches (5") of reinforced
concrete. (Prior code § 12-1-17)
CHAPTER 2
STREET NAMES AND PROPERTY NUMBERS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Scope
7-2-2: Baselines; Determination Of Numbers
7-2-3: Odd And Even Numbers
7-2-4: Posting Numbers; Specifications
7-2-5: Chart Of Property Numbers
7-2-6: Compliance With Provisions
7-2-1: SCOPE:
All lots, buildings and structures in the city shall be numbered in accordance
with the plan set out in this chapter. (Ord., 12-14-1992)
7-2-2: BASELINES; DETERMINATION OF NUMBERS:
   A.   The baseline for streets running north and south shall be Santa Fe
Street, and numbers lying north or south thereof shall be designated north or
south, as the case may be. The baseline for streets running east or west shall
be Main Street, and numbers lying east or west of this line shall be designated
east or west, as the case may be.
   B.   Numbering shall begin with the baselines with the number 101 (or 102),
and one unit shall be allowed for each approximate twenty five feet (25') of
frontage, except north of 3rd Street (refer to pages 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the
"Street Address Atlas" for street numbers) and south of the Atchison, Topeka
And Santa Fe Railroad tracks (refer to pages 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the "Street
Address Atlas" for street numbers). The numbers at each block shall begin with
101 or a multiple thereof. (Ord., 12-14-1992)
7-2-3: ODD AND EVEN NUMBERS:
Odd numbers shall be on the north and west sides of the streets, and even
numbers shall be on the south and east sides of the streets, except for the
special areas mentioned in subsection
 7-2-2B of this chapter. (Ord., 12-14-1992)
7-2-4: POSTING NUMBERS; SPECIFICATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of every building in the city to
post and maintain thereon, in a place visible from the street, figures at least
six inches (6") high showing the number of the building. (Ord., 12-14-1992)
7-2-5: CHART OF PROPERTY NUMBERS:
The city clerk shall keep a chart, which was designed by city officials and
displayed on J.E. & Associates maps by the north central Illinois council of
governments showing the proper street number of every occupied lot in the
corporate limits of the city, which chart shall be open to inspection by anyone
interested. As new areas are annexed to the city, or if new occupancies occur
within the corporate limits, the city council shall assign the appropriate
street numbers to the occupied lots or buildings. (Ord., 12-14-1992)
7-2-6: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
All residents shall forthwith change their house or building numbers in
accordance with this chapter. There shall be no duplication of numbers, and no
person shall place a number unless as designated herein. (Ord., 12-14-1992)
CHAPTER 3
ACTIVITIES ON UNIMPROVED PLATTED ALLEYS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Traffic Restricted
7-3-2: Encroachments
7-3-3: Penalty
7-3-1: TRAFFIC RESTRICTED:
The corporate authorities of the city do hereby prohibit any and all vehicular
traffic upon all unimproved platted alleys within the city except only the
following:
   A.   Police, fire protection and other vehicles owned by governmental
entities responding to emergency situations; and
   B.   Vehicles owned by governmental entities or by independent contractors
hired by governmental entities to repair and maintain gas, electric, water and
any other utility easement within said alleys. (Ord. 03-12-2012, 3-12-2012)
7-3-2: ENCROACHMENTS:
It is hereby prohibited and it shall be an unlawful violation of this section
for any person, firm or entity to plant, construct, install, operate and/or
maintain an encroachment in, on, over or under any unimproved platted alley
except police, fire protection and other governmental entities responding to
emergency situations and the city maintenance vehicles and utility company
vehicles to repair and maintain gas, electric, water and other utility
easements within said unimproved alleys. (Ord. 03-12-2012, 3-12-2012)
7-3-3: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense is deemed
committed on each day on which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue.
(Ord. 03-12-2012, 3-12-2012; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Planting And Removal
7-4-2: Prohibited And Restricted Acts
7-4-3: Trimming Overhanging Trees And Shrubs
7-4-4: Duties Of Franchisee
7-4-1: PLANTING AND REMOVAL:
It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or shrub in any public street or parkway
or other public place, or to remove the same, without having first secured a
permit. Applications for such permits shall be made to the city clerk and shall
be referred by him to the mayor and city council. All trees and shrubs shall be
placed subject to the direction and approval of the superintendent of public
works. (Prior code § 12-2-1)
7-4-2: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED ACTS:
   A.   Injury To Trees And Shrubs: It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or
shrub planted in any public place. (Prior code § 12-2-2)
   B.   Attaching Advertisements Or Notices: It shall be unlawful to attach any
sign, advertisement or notice to any tree or shrub in any public place. (Prior
code § 12-2-3)
   C.   Attaching Wires Or Rope: It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or
rope to any tree on city property without permission of the mayor and city
council. (Prior code § 12-2-5)
7-4-3: TRIMMING OVERHANGING TREES AND SHRUBS:
Any tree or shrub which overhangs or obstructs any public way or place in such
a way as to impede, interfere with or endanger traffic, or which has become
likely to fall on or across any public way or place, or which is less than
eight feet (8') above the public way, shall be trimmed or removed by the owner
of the abutting premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that the
obstruction shall cease or there is compliance with the eight foot (8')
restriction. (Prior code § 12-2-4; amd. 2015 Code)
7-4-4: DUTIES OF FRANCHISEE:
Any person or firm given the right to maintain poles and wires in the streets,
alleys or other public places in the city shall, in the absence of provision in
the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles away from any
trees or shrubs in such places so far as may be possible, and shall keep all
such trees and shrubs properly trimmed, subject to the supervision of the
superintendent of public works, so that no injury shall be done to the poles
and wires or trees and shrubs by contact. (Prior code § 12-2-5)
CHAPTER 5
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose And Scope
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
7-5-4: Dispute Resolution
7-5-5: Indemnification
7-5-6: Insurance
7-5-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the City's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the City exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act.
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 2018-8-13, 8-13-2018)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
   ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the City for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522
(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153
(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51),
as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE: A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section
VI.D.1.a.i through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement
codified at 47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked
building, property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the
City pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the
Certified Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation
Office or where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois
State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the City in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT: A written authorization required by the City to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE: A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. Right-of-way does not include City- owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the City.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
2018-8-13, 8-13-2018)
7-5-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
subsection C9 of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but not
subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-of-
way in any zoning district, or 2) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the
City to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be received
and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following conditions
and requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the City, together with the City's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the City, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Application Process: The City shall process applications as follows:
         a.   Multiple Applications For Same Pole Or Structure: The first
completed application shall have priority over applications received by
different applicants for collocation on the same utility pole or wireless
support structure.
         b.   Existing Pole Or Structure: An application to collocate a small
wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or
replacement of an existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the City
fails to approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after the
submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five (75)
days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed approved notice
shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this chapter.
         c.   New Utility Pole: An application to collocate a small wireless
facility that includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the City fails to
approve or deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after the
submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five
(105) days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed approved notice
shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this chapter.
         d.   Denial: The City shall deny an application which does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
If the City determines that applicable codes, ordinances or regulations that
concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and conditions contained
herein require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced
before the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the provider.
The City shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the City denies an
application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the City and resubmit the
revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of denial is sent
to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The City shall
approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require the applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the City's review period.
The applicant must notify the City in writing of its intention to proceed with
the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted with
the revised application.
Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the denial. However, this revised application does not apply if the cure
requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
         e.   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after an
approved permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility
pole, the City and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment
Agreement, provided by the City for the initial collocation on a Municipal
utility pole by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate
on a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, the City and the
applicant shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment
Agreement.
      3.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving
an application, the City shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the City must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the City fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the City's permit application form are submitted by the applicant
to the City.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the City sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      4.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         a.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the City;
or
         b.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the City may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The City may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the City makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or
the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable City codes
or any provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of permits
shall be subject to the applicable City Code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the City by personal
delivery at the City's designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked
on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   C.   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The City may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the City's electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the City reasonably determines
that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      3.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
The City may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   Electric Distribution Or Transmission Systems: The wireless provider
shall not collocate small wireless facilities on City utility poles that are
part of an electric distribution or transmission system within the
communication worker safety zone of the pole or the electric supply zone of the
pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the City utility pole and on the top
of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider complies
with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      5.   Public Safety: The wireless provider shall comply with all
applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety.
      6.   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in a City ordinance, written policy adopted by the City, a comprehensive plan
or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-
way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      7.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this collocation
requirements and conditions subsection, a wireless provider shall not be
required to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole,
or category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna
systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for
the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility
pole, the City may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one hundred
feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the City, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the
criteria in this paragraph.
      8.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the City, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the City, provided the City may designate which
intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height limitation
for such facility; or
         b.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      9.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall request a variance from the City Council. The procedures, terms and
conditions applicable to such a request shall be the same as the procedures,
terms and conditions set forth in section 9-2A-7 of this Code for hearings
before the Zoning Board of Appeals (but a variance requested under this section
shall not be considered a zoning variance).
      10.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the City and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground- mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      11.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      12.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
      13.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the City and the wireless provider agree to extend this
period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility pole or
by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided
the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days after
the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the
additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred sixty
(360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be void
unless the City grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   D.   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   The City shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the City at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with subsection B1d of this section; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the City to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   E.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the City or another unit of local government that is not located within rights-
of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure without
the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: 1) to obtain a
franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or 2) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter.
   F.   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the City and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
City utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the City's utility poles pursuant
to applications submitted to the City before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the City on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the City
makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the City
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the City's utility
poles pursuant to applications submitted to the City before the wireless
provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this paragraph.
   G.   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to the City an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a City utility
pole located in a right-of-way that equals: 1) two hundred dollars ($200.00)
per year or 2) the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on the City utility pole.
If the City has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs, the
fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after the
first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   H.   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from the City notifying the wireless
provider of the abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the City to the owner at the last known address of the wireless
provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety (90) days
of such notice, the City may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for Municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the City if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City. Such
notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. 2018-8-13, 8-13-2018)
7-5-4: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of Marshall County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
City shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per Municipal
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 2018-8-13, 8-13-2018)
7-5-5: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the City harmless against any and
all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting from or
arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the City
improvements or right-of- way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the City or its employees or
agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the City with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability. (Ord. 2018-8-13, 8-13-2018)
7-5-6: INSURANCE:
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
   A.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   B.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
   C.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the City improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection limits
consistent with its requirements of other users of City improvements or rights-
of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
The wireless provider shall include the City as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the City in a commercial general liability policy prior to the
collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the City. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the City evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self- insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the City. (Ord. 2018-8-13, 8-13-2018)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
Water Use And Service   1
Connections To Water System   1A
Use Of The Water System   1B
Sewer Use And Service   2
Septic Tanks   2A
Rental Property Water And Sewer Service   3
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms
contained in this chapter shall be as follows:
   CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
Administrator: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
Federal Act: The "federal 1996 safe drinking water acts amendments".
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
Approving Authority: The superintendent of the department of public works.
City: The city of Toluca.
   PERSON: All persons, natural or artificial, including any individual, firm,
company, municipal or private corporation, association, society, institution,
enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   STATE GOVERNMENT:
Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
State Act: The Illinois anti-pollution bond act of 1970.
State Loan: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of waterworks as provided by the Illinois anti-pollution bond act
and for making such loans as filed with the secretary of state of the state of
Illinois.
   TYPES OF CHARGES:
Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public water
system.
Capital Improvement Charge: A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the waterworks.
Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of outstanding loans, bonds, etc.
Local Capital Cost Charge: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the works to
maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were designed and
constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes replacement.
Useful Life: The estimated period during which the waterworks will be operated.
User Charge: A charge levied on users of the waterworks for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
Water Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received in
the operation of the water system.
Water Service Charge: The charge per month levied on all users of the water
facilities. This service charge shall be computed as outlined in section
8-1B-6 of this chapter and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge
and the local capital cost if applicable.
   WATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
Curb Cock: A shutoff valve attached to a water service pipe from a water main
to a building installed near the curb, which may be operated by a valve key to
start or stop flow in the water supply line of a building. Also called curb
stop.
Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of concentration of water constituent. It is 0.001
gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters (1,000 ml) of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water analyses.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
pH: The logarithm (base-10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA division of
laboratories "Manual Of Laboratory Methods".
Service Box: A valve box used with corporation or curb cock. (Ord., 4-17-2000;
amd. 2015 Code)
ARTICLE A. CONNECTIONS TO WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Connection And Permit Required
8-1A-2: Turning On Water
8-1A-3: Installation Of Water Service
8-1A-4: Excavations For Connections
8-1A-5: Compliance With Plumbing Regulations
8-1A-6: Water Meters
8-1A-7: Service To More Than One Premises
8-1A-8: Responsibility For Repairs To System
8-1A-9: Cross Connection Control
8-1A-10: Resale Or Unauthorized Use Of Water
8-1A-11: Nonliability Of City
8-1A-12: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-1A-13: Violations; Penalties
8-1A-1: CONNECTION AND PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   The owner, occupant, party or parties in possession of any house,
structure, factory, industrial or commercial establishment or any other
building or structure of any other character which uses water and is located on
property within the corporate limits of the city, shall cause such house,
structure, factory, industrial or commercial establishment or any other
building or structure of any other character to be connected with the
waterworks system within ninety (90) days from the date that water facilities
become available to such property.
   B.   No connection with the waterworks system shall be made without a permit
issued by the department of public works (the department) of the city. All such
connections shall be made by the city under the supervision of the department,
and no connections shall be covered until the work has been inspected to the
satisfaction of the department. Whenever any premises shall hereafter be
connected with the waterworks system, a charge shall be made. (Ord., 4-17-2000)
8-1A-2: TURNING ON WATER:
   A.   Water from the waterworks system shall be turned on for service into
any premises only by the department. Application to have water turned on shall
be made in writing to the department and shall contain an agreement by the
applicant to abide by and accept all of the provisions of this article as
conditions governing the use and service of the waterworks system by the
applicant. (Ord., 4-17-2000)
   B.   A fee shall be paid prior to turning on the water. The only exception
to this requirement will be when the customer temporarily relocates to another
home out of state, in which case, a fee shall be added to the bill at the time
of turn on. (Ord., 4-17-2000; amd. 2015 Code)
8-1A-3: INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE:
   A.   All service pipes and laterals from the waterworks system (water mains)
to the stop box shall be installed by and at the expense of the city for a
distance not to exceed two hundred feet (200'). If such water service must
cross a city or state road or alley that requires boring and casing, the cost
of such boring and/or casing shall be borne by the applicant for the service or
the owner of the property being served. All expenses for more than two hundred
feet (200') shall be at the cost of and installed by the owner of the property
to be served or the applicant for the service. All such water services shall
have a curb cock on the terrace with a stop box flush with the ground. (Ord.,
4-17-2000)
   B.   All water services used or laid on city property shall be of one inch
(1") copper tube size polypipe or larger at a rating of one hundred sixty (160)
psi minimum or greater. At no time will plastic or galvanized pipe be used
regardless of who is laying the pipe. (Ord., 4-17-2000; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Shutoff boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every service pipe
and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line where this is
practicable. Such boxes shall be so located that they are easily accessible and
shall be protected from frost. (Ord., 4-17-2000)
8-1A-4: EXCAVATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS:
Excavations for installing service pipes and laterals or repairing the same
shall be made in compliance with the ordinance provisions relating to making
excavations in streets; provided, that it shall be unlawful to place any
service pipe in the same excavation with, or directly over, any drainpipe or
sewer lateral. (Ord., 4-17-2000)
8-1A-5: COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING REGULATIONS:
No water shall be turned on for service in any premises in which the plumbing
does not comply with the ordinances of the city; provided, that water may be
turned on for construction work in unfinished buildings, subject to the
provisions of this article. (Ord., 4-17-2000)
8-1A-6: WATER METERS:
   A.   Meters Required: All premises using the city water supply must be
equipped with an adequate cubic foot water meter. All meters placed in service
on any premises using the city water supply will be provided and owned by the
city, which retains the right to inspect, repair and replace them upon
reasonable notice to the owner of the premises. For new construction, the owner
is required to purchase the first meter, and the city will maintain it. (Ord.,
4-17-2000; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Separate Meters Required: Any house or building constructed within the
city or constructed outside of the city using city water must have a meter
installed that will service each individual user located upon any newly
constructed property.
   C.   Location: Meters shall be installed in a location that will provide
easy access thereto.
   D.   Reading Meters: The department shall read or cause to be read every
water meter used in the city at such times as are necessary so that the bills
may be sent out at the proper time.
   E.   Testing Meters: Upon request or complaint of the consumer, any water
meter shall be tested for accuracy. If, upon testing, the meter is found to be
over three percent (3%) off in accuracy, the meter shall be replaced at no cost
to the consumer. If the meter is found to be three percent (3%) or less off in
accuracy, then the consumer shall pay a testing fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00). (Ord., 4-17-2000)
8-1A-7: SERVICE TO MORE THAN ONE PREMISES:
No owner or plumber shall be permitted to connect water pipes into any two (2)
distinct premises or tenements unless separate and distinct stop cocks shall be
placed on the outside of each such premises along the sidewalk opposite the
same, nor shall any pipe be allowed to cross lots or buildings to adjoining
premises. Duplex flats, double houses and apartment houses shall be considered
as one "premises". A "premises" shall be construed to cover all buildings and
divisions under one common roof owned by one party who will be charged for all
services to such premises. (Ord., 4-17-2000)
8-1A-8: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIRS TO SYSTEM:
All repairs to service pipes and laterals from the waterworks system (water
mains) to the stop box shall be made by and at the expense of the city. From
the stop box to the property being served, all repairs and excavations shall be
by and at the expense of the property owner. (Ord., 4-17-2000)
8-1A-9: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
   A.   Cross Connections Restricted: No person shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the city enters the supply or distribution system of the city,
unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the department
and the Illinois environmental protection agency (the agency).
   B.   Surveys And Investigations: It shall be the duty of the department to
cause surveys and investigations to be made of industrial and other properties
served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations
shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every
two (2) years, or as often as the department shall deem necessary. Records of
such surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at
least five (5) years.
   C.   Backflow Prevention Devices: If, in accordance with the Illinois
plumbing code or in the judgment of the department, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water supply
system, the department will give notice to the water customer to install such
an approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense,
install such an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance
with the Illinois plumbing code and all applicable local regulations and shall
have inspections and tests made of such approved devices as required by the
Illinois plumbing code and local regulations.
   D.   Inspections; Entry Powers: The cross connection control device
inspector shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property
served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution system for
the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross connections and the
purpose of verifying the presence or absence of a cross connection, and the
department or its authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system for the purpose of verifying information submitted by
the customer regarding the required cross connection control inspection. On
demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish
to the department any information which it may request regarding the piping
system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, in the discretion of the department, be
deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided in this
section.
   E.   Disconnection Of Service: The department is hereby authorized and
directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the
water service to any property in which any connection in violation of the
provisions of this section is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as it may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to
such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated
or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this section, and until a
reconnection fee is paid to the city. Immediate disconnection with verbal
notice can be effected when the department is assured that imminent danger of
harmful contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action
shall be followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
   F.   Responsibility For Cleanup Costs: The consumer responsible for back
siphoned material or contamination through backflow, if contamination of the
potable water supply system occurs through an illegal cross connection or an
improperly installed, maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been
bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system.
(Ord., 4-17-2000)
8-1A-10: RESALE OR UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER:
No water supplied by the city shall be resold by any user. No water user may
supply water to other families or allow them to take such water, except for use
on the premises and for the purpose specified in such user's approved
application, nor, after water is introduced into any building or upon any
premises, shall any person make or employ any other person to make any tap or
connection with works upon the premises for alterations, repairs, extensions or
attachments without a written permit therefor. Resale or unauthorized use of
water shall be grounds for discontinuance of water service to the user or the
premises, or both. (Ord., 4-17-2000)
8-1A-11: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
   A.   Service Failure: All service supplied by the waterworks system shall be
upon the express condition that the city shall not be liable nor shall any
claim be made against it for damages or injury caused by reason of the breaking
of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or appurtenances connected with
said system or any part or portion thereof, or for any interruption of the
supply by reason of the breakage of machinery, or by reason of stoppage,
alterations, extension or renewals.
   B.   Service Interruption: The city reserves the right to shut off water at
any time in the mains for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, making
connections with or extensions to the same, or the concentrating of water in
any part of the city in case of fire, and for restricting the use of water in
case of deficiency in supply, including the suspension of the use of water for
sprinkling lawns or gardens. No claim shall be made against the city by reason
of the breaking of any service pipe or service cock, or damage arising from
shutting off the water for repairing, laying or re-laying mains, hydrants or
other connections, or repairing any part of the water system, or from failure
of the water supply, or by increasing the water pressure at any time, or from
concentrated or restricted use of water as stated herein. (Ord., 4-17-2000)
8-1A-12: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The city and its employees and the agency shall have ready access at
all reasonable times to the premises, places or buildings where water service
is supplied for the purpose of inspecting, examining and testing the
consumption, use and flow of water, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere with, prevent or obstruct the city or its duly authorized agent or
the agency in its duties hereunder. Every use of the system shall take the same
upon the conditions as set forth in this subsection. (Ord., 4-17-2000)
   B.   The department and other duly authorized employees of the city and the
agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article. While
performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in this
subsection, the department or duly authorized employees of the city and the
agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
its owner, and the owner shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees, and the city shall indemnify the owner against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the owner and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the owner to maintain conditions as required by
this article. (Ord., 4-17-2000; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   The department and other duly authorized employees of the city, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
repair, and maintenance of any portion of the water system lying within said
easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the agreement pertaining to the
private property involved. (Ord., 4-17-2000)
8-1A-13: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this article shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. (Ord., 4-17-2000; amd. 2015
Code)
   B.   Misdemeanor Violations; Penalty: Any person who shall continue any
violation beyond such time limit shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Liability For Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this article shall become liable to the city by reason of such violation.
(Ord., 4-17-2000)
ARTICLE B. USE OF THE WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-1B-1: Application And Agreement For Service; Deposit Required
8-1B-2: Termination, Refusal Of Service
8-1B-3: City Powers, Responsibilities And Nonliability
8-1B-4: User Responsibilities; Damage To System
8-1B-5: Extension Of Mains
8-1B-6: Rates And Charges
8-1B-7: Access To Records
8-1B-8: Violation; Penalty
8-1B-1: APPLICATION AND AGREEMENT FOR SERVICE; DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Water service, whether for a new connection, additional service, or a
change of occupancy, will be furnished only upon filing an application and
water user's agreement with the city collector upon a form to be supplied by
the city and upon the payment of such deposit, if any, as may be required by
ordinance.
   B.   If more than one family unit is located upon the premises, then the
user shall make application for each family unit. (Ord., 5-8-2000)
8-1B-2: TERMINATION, REFUSAL OF SERVICE:
   A.   Termination By User: Any user requesting a termination of service must
give notice to the city collector ten (10) days prior to the time such
termination is desired. The meter will be read by the city, and the user will
be billed.
   B.   Refusal Of Service By City: The city may at any time refuse additional
service to any applicant if, in the judgment of the city council, the capacity
of the system will not permit such use. (Ord., 5-8-2000)
8-1B-3: CITY POWERS, RESPONSIBILITIES AND NONLIABILITY:
   A.   Ownership, Installation And Maintenance: The city shall install, own
and maintain the complete water system, water mains, and service lines to the
property line or a mutually agreed upon point subject to the city council
determination that a particular service is economically feasible to install.
The city shall furnish, install and maintain a meter and appurtenances
including a shutoff valve. The shutoff valve shall be installed on the user's
property line or such other point determined by a duly authorized
representative of the city. The meter may be located near the shutoff valve or
within the user's premises as determined by the city representative. The meter
and shutoff valve must be located at a point where it is readily accessible.
   B.   Nonliability: All water service supplied by the city shall be upon the
express condition that the city shall not be liable nor shall any claim be made
against it for damages or injury caused by reason of shutting off water for
repair, relocation, or expansion of any part of the system, or failure of any
part of the system or for concentration of water for such purposes as
firefighting or restricted use of water.
   C.   City Use Of User's Water: The city reserves the right to use the water
from the user's facilities at any time deemed necessary. No charge shall be
made by the user for the use of his facilities, and no charge shall be made by
the city for the water used by the city. (Ord., 5-8-2000)
8-1B-4: USER RESPONSIBILITIES; DAMAGE TO SYSTEM:
   A.   Installing And Maintaining Service Lines: The user shall be responsible
for installation and maintenance of service lines between the curb stop and the
residence or business. Such service lines must be at least three-fourths inch
(3/4") in diameter, and must be installed at a minimum depth of four feet (4').
Service lines must have a minimum working pressure rating of one hundred sixty
(160) psi at 73.4 degrees Fahrenheit and must be constructed of one of the
following types of materials: copper (type K), polyvinyl chloride (PVC),
polyethylene or polybutylene. Service lines must not be covered until they are
inspected and approved by a duly authorized city representative. The user will
not connect any service line or any plumbing connected with the service line to
any other water source. The service line must meet any requirements of the
state of Illinois environmental protection agency.
   B.   Authorize Location Of Meter: The user shall permit the meter to be
located upon his property.
   C.   Easements: The user shall give such easements and rights of way as
necessary to the city and allow access for the purposes of construction,
repair, maintenance, meter reading, relocation or expansion of the water
system. The necessity shall be determined by the city council.
   D.   Damage To City Property: No user shall tamper, adjust, damage, or in
any manner interfere with the components or operation of the water system owned
by the city. The shutoff valve shall be opened only by a duly authorized
representative of the city. In addition to other penalties provided herein, the
user responsible shall reimburse the city for the actual cost of repairing any
damage arising from the user's act; if not paid within thirty (30) days after
the amount is determined, the city shall shut off the water service.
   E.   Specified Uses Of Water: Water purchased from the city may be used for
ordinary domestic, industrial or farm use upon the premises of the user,
provided no user shall resell or permit the resale of water purchased from the
city. (Ord., 5-8-2000)
8-1B-5: EXTENSION OF MAINS:
   A.   Determination Of Necessity Of Extension: The city council shall first
determine if any extension of a water main is economically feasible based upon
the estimated cost of the extension and the number of existing potential users
that will use water along the extension. If the extension is economically
feasible, then the city may install and pay the cost of the extension at the
discretion of the city council. If the city elects not to pay the cost of
extending the water main, then the person or persons desiring water service
shall install the extension at their own personal expense upon written consent
of the city council. The city shall not pay for any extensions to an
undeveloped area such as a subdivision being developed unless there are
sufficient existing residents or businesses to make the extension economically
feasible.
   B.   Extension Installed By Other Than City:
      1.   The city must approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions.
      2.   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications
must be reviewed and approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency
(IEPA).
      3.   Ownership, rights of way, and title must be conveyed to the city for
all extensions installed by anyone other than the city. The city will maintain
the mains thereafter.
      4.   No extension will be permitted if, in the opinion of the city
council, the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension. (Ord., 5-8-2000)
8-1B-6: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   City Collector: There is hereby established the office of city
collector who shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and
consent of the city council. The collector shall serve at the pleasure of the
mayor and city council, at such salary as they may from time to time determine.
   B.   Rates And Charges Established: The following are the established
monthly rates and charges for the use of and for the service supplied by the
waterworks system based upon the amount of water consumed as shown by water
meters:
      1.   Users Inside City Limits:
         a.   Base Rate: Each water customer shall pay the following base rate
per month: Four dollars fifty four cents ($4.54) per month.
         b.   Usage: In addition to the base rate provided in subsection B1a of
this section, each water customer shall pay the following rates for water
usage:
 
Usage                  Rate Per Cubic Foot Effective June 1, 2025
0 - 5,000 cu. ft.      $0.0353
5,001 - 50,000 cu. ft. $0.0311
50,000 and up          $0.0262
 
      2.   Customers Outside Corporate Limits: The usage fee for customers
located outside the city limits of the city shall be two (2) times the rates
set forth in subsection B1 of this section.
      3.   Water Surcharge: In addition to the charges set forth in subsection
B1 of this section, each water customer shall pay, with each monthly bill, a
surcharge equal to one-third (1/3) of the amount of the monthly water usage
charge plus the base water rate for such month.
      4.   Tap Fee And Deposit: The charge for each new or replacement water
tap shall be for time and materials. An appropriate deposit, as determined by
the city, shall be paid before the tap is made.
   C.   Liability For Service: The owner of the premises and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service on such
premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only upon
condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the service are
jointly and severally liable therefor to the city.
   D.   Bills For Service; Delinquencies:
      1.   Bills will be due fifteen (15) days from the date of billing. Bills
will be assessed a late fee after day 15 in the amount of ten percent (10%) of
the amount due. Bills that are fifteen (15) days past the original due date
will be considered delinquent and service will be disconnected without any
further notice. A reconnection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) will be charged to
have the service turned back on when the bill is paid.
      2.   When a water user is delinquent, he will be so advised by the city
clerk by letter. If appropriate, a copy of the letter will be sent to the
landowner.
      3.   The chair of the water, sewer and lights committee shall have the
sole authority to direct the disconnection of water and sewer service for
nonpayment, or the reconnection for less than full payment of the delinquent
charge. Such reconnection, however, is subject to review at the next regular
meeting of the city council. There will be a charge of thirty dollars ($30.00)
for any such reconnection.
      4.   Delinquent charges may be paid only at the office of the city clerk
during regular water collection hours.
   E.   Deposit Of Revenues: All revenues and monies derived from the operation
of the waterworks system shall be held by the collector, and all of said sums,
without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the city treasurer at
such intervals as may from time to time be directed by the city council.
   F.   Accounting; Annual Audit:
      1.   The city treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the water system and, at
regular annual intervals, shall cause to be made an audit by an independent
auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the
water system.
      2.   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the water
facilities, including a replacement cost. The financial information to be shown
in the audit report shall include the following:
         a.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the water plant for
the current fiscal year.
         b.   Billing data to show the total number of gallons used per fiscal
year.
         c.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
         d.   Number of users connected to the system.
         e.   Number of nonmetered users.
   G.   Adjustment Of Bills: The city collector is not authorized to adjust or
change any water bill. The superintendent of public works may adjust any bill
which is incorrect because of an error in the reading of the meter or other
mechanical error in billing. If the superintendent of public works determines,
after inspection, that a water leak on any user's premises has caused unusually
high usage and that such leak has been corrected, the city council is
authorized to adjust the water bill of the user as follows: One-half (1/2) of
the difference between the average consumption shown on last four (4) water
bills and the consumption shown on the disputed bill may be deducted. If the
water meter is out of order at the time of reading, the bill shall be for the
amount of consumption shown on the water bill for the same period during the
previous year. No penalty shall be charged on any adjusted bill.
   H.   Review Of And Revisions To Charges: The adequacy of the water service
charge shall be reviewed not less than annually by the certified public
accountants for the city in their annual audit report. The water service charge
shall be revised periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or
operation, maintenance and repair (OM&R) costs.
   I.   Appeals: The method for computation of rates and service charges
established for user charges in this section shall be made available to a user
within fifteen (15) days after receipt of a written request therefor. Any
disagreement over the method used or in the computation thereof shall be
remedied by the city within thirty (30) days after notification of a formal
written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(Ord., 5-8-2000; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 2016-8-15, 8-15-2016; Ord. 2016-11-14,
11-14-2016; Ord. 2020-2-13, 1-13-2020; Ord. 2020-8-10, 8-10-2020; Ord. 2023-1-
9, 1-9-2023; Ord. 2024-5-13, 5-13-2024; Ord. 2025-5-12, 5-12-2025)
8-1B-7: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The IEPA or its authorized representative shall have access to any books,
documents, papers and records of the city which are applicable to the city
system of user charges for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts
and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of any loan
agreement and rules. (Ord., 5-8-2000; amd. 2015 Code)
8-1B-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this article shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord., 5-8-2000; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Superintendent Of Water Pollution Control
8-2-3: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-2-4: Building Sewers And Connections
8-2-5: Use Of The Sanitary Sewer System
8-2-5-1: Discharges Into System
8-2-5-2: Interceptors
8-2-5-3: Preliminary Treatment Or Flow Equalization
8-2-5-4: Control Manhole
8-2-5-5: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
8-2-5-6: Special Agreements
8-2-6: Sewer Rates And Charges
8-2-7: Damage To, Tampering With System
8-2-8: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-2-9: Hearing Board
8-2-10: Violations; Penalty
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
   ACT: The federal water pollution control act, as amended, 33 USC section
1251 et seq.
   ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection
agency.
   BOD (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY: The city of Toluca, and any reference to "within the city" shall mean
all territory within the perimeter of the city of Toluca boundaries.
   COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: A charge levied on users of the treatment works for the
cost of any bond debt to be paid by revenue generated from the operation of the
treatment works.
   DEPRECIATION: The decrease in the monetary value of an asset with time. Each
component of the sewage works shall be assumed to depreciate at a constant rate
over its anticipated service life.
   DIRECTOR: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
   DOMESTIC WASTES: The liquid from sanitary conveniences, such as sinks, baths
and toilets, that are connected to the building drain.
   EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided by title II, "grants for
construction of treatment works", of the act.
   FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat, or grease in such a physical state that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   HEARING BOARD: That board appointed according to the provisions of section
8-2-9 of this chapter.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Any pollutant which is not a "compatible pollutant"
as defined herein.
   INDUSTRIAL USER: A. Any user of publicly owned treatment works identified in
the "Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office Of Management And
Budget", as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
Division A: Agriculture, forestry and fishing.
Division B: Mining.
Division D: Manufacturing.
Division E: Transportation, communications, electric, gas and sanitary
services.
Division I: Services.
   B.   A user in the divisions listed in subsection A of this definition may
be excluded if it is determined by the superintendent that it will introduce
primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from domestic waste generated by
sanitary conveniences.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY: An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
   A.   Has a flow of forty thousand (40,000) gallons or more per average
workday;
   B.   Has a flow greater than five percent (5%) of the flow carried by the
city sewerage system;
   C.   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the act; or
   D.   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of an NPDES permit to the city treatment works, to have significant
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on
the treatment works or upon the quality of effluent from the treatment works.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters
(1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per
million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of
water and wastewater analysis.
   NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the administrator or, where appropriate, by the director, after enactment of
the federal water pollution control amendments of 1972, to regulate the
discharge of pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the act.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE: Those actions, materials and services necessary
for the proper functioning of the treatment facilities over their useful life.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pound of BOD and 0.20
pound of suspended solids. The impact on a treatment works is evaluated as the
equivalent of the highest of the three (3) parameters. Impact on a stream is
the higher of the BOD and suspended solids parameters.
   PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL USER, NONINDUSTRIAL USER: Any user of the treatment
works not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an "industrial user"
as defined herein.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater, surface
water, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collection, pumping, treating, and disposing
of sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SEWER RATE: A charge for the use of and services supplied by the sewage works
of the city. This charge shall consist of a "user charge" and a "debt service
charge", as defined herein.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A sewer which carries stormwater
and surface water and groundwater drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial
wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of water pollution control of the city of
Toluca, or his authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated and shall be years from the date of start up
of any wastewater facilities constructed with a state grant.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance including replacement.
USER CLASS: The type of user, either residential or commercial or industrial,
as defined herein.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge; sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"pollution control plant".
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975; amd. Ord. 76-1, 2-2-1976; 2015 Code)
8-2-2: SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER POLLUTION CONTROL:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment; Compensation: There is hereby created the
office of city superintendent of water pollution control. At the first regular
meeting of the city council after the election of the mayor, or as soon
thereafter as is possible, the mayor shall appoint, subject to the approval of
the city council, a superintendent of water pollution control, who shall hold
office until his successor is appointed and shall have qualified. The salary of
the superintendent shall be fixed by the city council at the time of his
appointment. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Duties: The superintendent of water pollution control shall:
      1.   Have general supervision of the public sewers and sewage treatment
plant of the city and shall ascertain the conditions and needs thereof and
shall, from time to time, report the same to the city council.
      2.   Keep proper records of the location of all sewers, Y branches, and
building sewer connections, and the condition of private sewage disposal
systems and building sewers.
      3.   Have the duties specifically set forth in this chapter and have
authority to supervise the construction of private sewage disposal systems and
the construction and installation of building sewers and to issue permits
therefor.
      4.   Be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
and he is hereby authorized to make such inspections, observations,
measurements, samplings, and tests as may be necessary in that regard and is
authorized to enter upon any property for that purpose. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975)
8-2-3: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the city, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable wastes.
   B.   Discharge To Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Private Systems: Except as provided in article A of this chapter, it
shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (Ord.
75-2, 4-7-1975)
   D.   Connection To Sewer System Required: The owners of all dwellings,
buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley or
right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby required, at their
expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within one hundred feet
(100') of the property line, and provided capacity is available in downstream
sewers, lift stations, pumping stations, force mains and the sewage treatment
plant including pollutant removal capacity for BOD and suspended solids. (Ord.
75-2, 4-7-1975; amd. 2015 Code)
8-2-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
superintendent.
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: a) for residential and commercial service; and b) for
service to an industrial user. In either case, the owner or his agent shall
make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. (Ord.
75-2, 4-7-1975)
      3.   Permit And Inspection Fees: A permit and inspection fee of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) for a residential single-family unit and an additional
fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for each additional living unit, including motels,
shall be charged. A commercial building sewer permit and inspection fee shall
be fifty dollars ($50.00) and an industrial building sewer permit and
inspection fee shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00). All fees shall be paid
to the city clerk at the time of application. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975; amd. 2015
Code)
      4.   Conditions Of Permit: No new connection shall be made to a public
sewer which would cause the average daily organic loading to exceed six hundred
eighty (680) pounds of BOD or cause the average dry weather flow to exceed four
hundred thousand (400,000) gallons per day influent to the wastewater treatment
facilities.
   B.   Separate Building Sewers: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except, that where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   C.   Use Of Existing Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the superintendent, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Construction, Installation And Connection Requirements:
      1.   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
six inches (6"). The slope of such six inch (6") pipe shall be not less than
one foot (1') per one hundred feet (100'). For larger sizes of pipe, the
minimum slopes shall be according to all state and local regulations. Four inch
(4") diameter building sewer may be used; provided, that: a) a six by four (6 x
4) reducer is installed at the service connection; b) it is installed at a
slope of not less than one foot (1') per one hundred feet (100'); and c) serves
a single-family dwelling. Multiple housing units and commercial and industrial
building sewers shall be not less than six inches (6") in diameter. (Ord. 75-2,
4-7-1975)
      2.   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to any bearing wall if
within three feet (3') of any said wall, which might thereby be weakened. The
depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building sewer
shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible.
Changes in direction or grade shall be allowed only when a proper manhole is
constructed at the location of the change. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975; amd. 2015
Code)
      3.   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975)
      4.   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe ASTM specification
(A74) or equal; or vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM specification (C130) or
equal. Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe, conforming to ASTM specifications D2672,
D2729, D3033 or D3034 with joints conforming to ASTM D2564 or D1869 and
acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS) pipe conforming to ASTM D2680 with type
SC or OR joints will be acceptable materials. Joints shall be tight and
waterproof. Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet
(10') of a water service pipe shall be laid in a separate trench and at such an
elevation that the top of the sewer is at least eighteen inches (18") below the
bottom of the water service pipe. If it is impossible to obtain a horizontal
separation of at least ten feet (10'), and a vertical separation of at least
eighteen inches (18"), as stipulated above, the sewer shall be constructed of
mechanical or slip on joint cast iron pipe, and be pressure tested to assure
water tightness. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975; amd. 2015 Code)
      5.   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
All cast iron pipe joints shall be firmly placed with oakum or hemp and filled
with molten lead, federal specification (QQ-L156) (or most current federal
specification) not less than one inch (1") deep. Lead shall be run in one
pouring and caulked tight. No paint, varnish, or other coatings shall be
permitted on the jointing material until after the joint has been tested and
approved. All joints in vitrified clay pipe or between such pipe and metals
shall be made with approved hot poured jointing material, approved rubber
gaskets, oakum and Sewertite, Am-Vit, or an approved equal method and material.
Material for hot poured joints shall not soften sufficiently to destroy the
effectiveness of the joint when subjected to a temperature of one hundred sixty
degrees Fahrenheit (160°F), nor be soluble in any of the wastes carried by the
drainage system. The joint shall be first caulked tight with jute, hemp, or
similar approved material. Other jointing materials and methods may be used
only by approval of the superintendent. PVC and ABS pipe joints shall be as
specified in subsection D4 of this section. Connection of PVC or ABS pipe to
clay pipe sewers shall be made with a suitable adapter approved by the
superintendent.
      6.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the Y branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If
the public sewer is twelve inches (12") in diameter or less, and no properly
located Y branch is available, the owner shall, at his expense, install a Y
branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the superintendent.
Where the public sewer is greater than twelve inches (12") in diameter, and no
properly located Y branch is available, a neat machined hole may be cut into
the public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream
direction at an angle of about forty five degrees (45°). A forty five degree
(45°) ell may be used to make such connection with the spigot end cut so as not
to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the
building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or a higher
elevation than the invert of the public sewer, but no higher than a point one-
half (1/2) the vertical distance between the invert and the crown of the sewer.
A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and the connection made secure and
watertight by encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the
connection only when approved by the superintendent. Manholes shall be
constructed at any junction of an eight inch (8") diameter line or larger into
a public sewer.
      7.   No building sewer connection shall be made in a manhole unless such
manhole is designed and constructed to receive such building sewer.
      8.   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the superintendent. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specification
(C12-58-T) (or most current ASTM designation); except, that no backfill shall
be placed until the work has been inspected.
      9.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city and any
other governmental agency affected.
   E.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   F.   Inspections: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the superintendent or his representative between seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M., Monday through Friday, except
holidays.
   G.   Liability For Costs And Expenses; Indemnification: All costs and
expenses incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer
shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city for any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975)
8-2-5: USE OF THE SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM:
8-2-5-1: DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM:
   A.   Stormwater And Surface Waters:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, unpolluted industrial process waters or any other new inflow
source to any sanitary sewer.
      2.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet. All new
construction tributaries to the combined sewer system shall be designated to
minimize and/or delay inflow contribution to the combined sewer system.
      3.   All inflow sources on the combined sewer system which may legally be
discharged into storm sewers shall be connected to storm sewers within a
reasonable amount of time after a storm sewer becomes reasonably available to
such inflow source.
      4.   All new building domestic waste connections shall be distinct from
building inflow connections to facilitate disconnection if a storm sewer
becomes available.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, waste engine oil, or other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
      5.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 milligram
per liter as Hg at any time except as may be permitted based on the conditions
of the "Water Pollution Regulations Of Illinois", rule 702. A special permit
must be obtained from the superintendent prior to the discharge of any mercury
in excess of 0.0005 milligram per liter as Hg.
      6.   Any waste containing detectable levels of cyanide at any time,
except as permitted with the approval of the Illinois environmental protection
agency as specified in the "Water Pollution Regulations Of Illinois", rule 703.
   C.   Restricted Discharges:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the superintendent, that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or otherwise endanger life, limb, or public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
         b.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (0 and
65°C).
         c.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the superintendent.
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
         e.   Any waters or wastes containing in excess of the following
concentrations and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes
exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the treatment works exceeds the
limits established by the superintendent for such materials:
Waste Or Chemical Concentration mg/l
Waste Or Chemical                           Concentration mg/l
Arsenic                                     0.25
Barium                                      2.0
Boron                                       1.0
Cadmium                                     0.15
Chlorine demand                             30.0
Chromium (hexavalent)                       0.3
Chromium (trivalent)                        1.0
Copper                                      3.0
Fluoride                                    2.5
Iron (total)                                2.0
Lead                                        0.1
Manganese                                   1.0
Nickel                                      1.0
Oil and grease, etc. (carbon tetrachloride) 100.0
Phenols                                     0.3
Selenium                                    1.0
Silver                                      0.1
Zinc                                        1.0
 
         f.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      2.   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having:
a) a five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand greater than three hundred
milligrams per liter (300 mg/l); or b) containing more than three hundred fifty
milligrams per liter (350 mg/l) of suspended solids; or c) containing any
quantity of substances having the characteristics described in subsection C1 of
this section; or d) having an average daily flow greater than two percent (2%)
of the average daily sewage flow of the wastewater treatment plant shall be
subject to the review and approval of the superintendent. Where necessary, in
the opinion of the superintendent, the owner of any property discharging
industrial waste shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as
may be necessary to: a) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to three hundred
milligrams per liter (300 mg/l) weight; or b) reduce objectionable
characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits provided in
subsection C1 of this section; or c) control the quantities and rates of
discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans, specifications and any other
pertinent information relating to proposed pretreatment facilities shall be
submitted for the approval of the superintendent and of the environmental
protection agency of the state of Illinois, and no construction of such
facilities shall be commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
      3.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C1 of this section, and which, in
the judgment of the superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the superintendent
may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of section
8-2-5-5 of this chapter. If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the superintendent,
and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   D.   Further Assurances.
      1.   The city and combined sewer system users shall assure that combined
sewer overflow impacts from non-domestic sources are minimized by determining
which non-domestic discharges, if any, are tributary to combined sewer
overflows and reviewing and, if necessary, modifying this chapter to control
pollutants in such discharges.
      2.   All owners of combined sewers tributary to the city's collection
system shall have procedures in place to ensure that the objectives, mechanisms
and specific procedures for operation and maintenance under the city's NPDES
permit are met. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 2020-9-1, 9-14-
2020)
8-2-5-2: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily available for cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil
interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers
which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight. Where installed,
all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner, at his
expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-
1975)
8-2-5-3: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZATION:
   A.   Except as required by subsections
8-2-5-1B3 and C2 of this chapter, pretreatment for removal of compatible
pollutants is not required. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   In addition to the prohibitions set forth in subsections
8-2-5-1B and C1 of this chapter, the pretreatment standard for incompatible
pollutants introduced into a treatment works by a major contributing industry
shall be that established by a promulgated effluent limitations guideline
defining best practicable control technology currently available pursuant to
sections 301(b) and 304(b) of the act. Compliance with pretreatment standards
shall be as provided by the act and subsequent rules and regulations as
promulgated by the administrator.
   C.   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his expense. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975)
8-2-5-4: CONTROL MANHOLE:
When required by the superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances, in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the superintendent. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained
by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. The owner shall install
such control manhole within ninety (90) days of the date of written
notification to do so. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975)
8-2-5-5: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
the most current edition of "Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures For
Analysis Of Pollutants", as published in 40 CFR part 136. All measurements,
tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which
reference is made in this chapter shall be determined at the control manhole
provided, or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole exists as provided by section
8-2-5-4 of this chapter, the control manhole shall be considered to be at the
nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer at the point at which the
building sewer is connected, provided the superintendent shall be permitted to
take samples within the premises of the user, including lagoons, ponds, and
other places. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24 hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.) (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975; amd. 2015 Code)
8-2-5-6: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this section
8-2-5 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment,
subject to additional charges. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975; amd. 2015 Code)
8-2-6: SEWER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Rates Established: The following are the established monthly rates for
the use of and for the service supplied by the city sewer system:
      1.   Users Inside City Limits:
         a.   Base Rate: Each sewer customer shall pay the following base rate
per month: six dollars and sixty two cents ($6.62) per month.
         b.   Usage: In addition to the base rate provided in subsection A1a of
this section, each sewer customer shall pay the following rates for sewer
usage:
 
Rate Per Cubic Foot Effective June 1, 2025
$0.0468
 
      2.   Customers Outside Corporate Limits: The usage fee for customers
located outside the city limits of the city shall be two (2) times the rates
set forth in subsection A1 of this section.
   B.   Bills For Service; Delinquencies:
      1.   Bills will be due fifteen (15) days from the date of billing. Bills
will be assessed a late fee after day 15 in the amount of ten percent (10%) of
the amount due. Bills that are fifteen (15) days past the original due date
will considered delinquent.
      2.   When a sewer user is delinquent, he will be so advised by the city
clerk by letter. If appropriate, a copy of the letter will be sent to the
landowner.
   C.   Audit Of And Revision To Rates And Charges: The city shall
independently audit operation, maintenance and debt service costs for the
wastewater facilities, review sewer rates and charges annually, and revise
sewer rates and charges periodically to reflect actual treatment works
operation and maintenance costs and the cost of debt services.
(Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975; 2015 code; amd. Ord. 2016-8-15, 8-15-2016; Ord. 2016-11-
14, 11-14-2016; Ord. 2020-2-13; 1-13-2020; Ord. 8-10-2020, 8-10-2020; Ord.
2023-1-9, 1-9-2023; Ord. 2024-5-13, 5-13-2024; Ord. 2025-5-12, 5-12-2025)
8-2-7: DAMAGE TO, TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
section shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of disorderly
conduct. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975)
8-2-8: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
superintendent or his representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper
or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment. While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in this subsection, the superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city employees, and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
section
8-2-5-4 of this chapter.
   B.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975)
8-2-9: HEARING BOARD:
   A.   Appointment; Purpose: A hearing board shall be appointed as needed for
arbitration of differences between the superintendent and sewer users on
matters concerning interpretation and execution of the provisions of this
chapter by the superintendent. The cost of the arbitration will be divided
equally between the city and the sewer user.
   B.   Composition: One member of the board shall be a registered professional
engineer; one member shall be a practicing sanitary engineer; one member shall
be a representative of industry or manufacturing enterprise; one member shall
be a lawyer; and one member shall be selected at large for his interest in
accomplishing the objectives of this chapter. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975)
8-2-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except section
 8-2-7 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975)
   B.   Misdemeanor Violation; Penalty: Any person who shall continue any
violation beyond the time limit provided in subsection A of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975; amd.
2015 Code)
   C.   Liability For Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 75-2, 4-7-1975)
ARTICLE A. SEPTIC TANKS
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Sewage Disposal Facilities Required
8-2A-2: Location And Construction Requirements
8-2A-3: Inspections
8-2A-4: Penalty
8-2A-1: SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES REQUIRED:
Every building or structure in the city used for residence, business, trade,
industry or meeting purposes shall be equipped with properly constructed and
installed adequate sewage disposal facilities. The plumbing in all such places
shall conform to the ordinances of the city and the laws of the state relative
thereto. Any such premises not connected with a sanitary sewer system shall be
equipped with an adequate septic tank. (Ord. 69-2, 5-6-1969; amd. 2015 Code)
8-2A-2: LOCATION AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each septic tank shall be located at least twenty feet (20') from any
building and fifty feet (50') from any well or cistern, and shall be
constructed of 12-gauge steel, monolithic concrete, or brick or concrete blocks
adequately coated inside so as to be impervious to water. A baffle shall be
located from six inches (6") to nine inches (9") away from the inlet and outlet
and must extend twelve inches (12") beneath the sewer level in the tank. Each
tank must be equipped with a manhole or similar suitably covered opening to
permit inspection or cleaning.
   B.   The feeder sewer from the tank to the laterals of the disposal field
shall be equipped with a distribution box and shall be constructed of vitrified
bell and spigot tile with cemented joints and shall be laid with a grade of one
foot (1') per one hundred feet (100'). The disposal field tile shall be located
at least seventy five feet (75') distant from any well, ten feet (10') from the
tank, and thirty feet (30') from any building used for human habitation. No
lateral shall be closer than ten feet (10') to any lot line. There shall be at
least two hundred feet (200') of disposal field tile consisting of four inch
(4") drain tile laid with open joints. Disposal tiles shall be laid to a depth
of not more than two feet (2') on a slope not to exceed six inches (6") per one
hundred feet (100').
   C.   Backfill in the trench under the tile shall be at least six inches (6")
of coarse gravel or crushed stone. Earth backfill shall have two feet (2') of
gravel or crushed stone over the tile and shall be well tamped. (Ord. 69-2, 5-
6-1969)
8-2A-3: INSPECTIONS:
No septic tank or any pipes leading to or from the same shall be covered unless
and until such tank and pipes have been inspected and found to be in compliance
with the ordinances of the city and with the state laws pertaining thereto.
(Ord. 69-2, 5-6-1969)
8-2A-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this article shall
be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 69-2, 5-6-
1969)
CHAPTER 3
RENTAL PROPERTY WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Effective Date
8-3-2: Tenant Registration And Deposit Required
8-3-3: Final Meter Reading
8-3-4: Delinquent Accounts
8-3-5: Tenant Vacation Of Property; Landlord Responsibility
8-3-1: EFFECTIVE DATE:
Effective January 1, 2006, all water and sewer connections and billings for
rental properties within the city shall be subject to the regulations of this
chapter. (Ord., 12-12-2005)
8-3-2: TENANT REGISTRATION AND DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
All new tenants shall register at city hall providing their billing address,
proper identification, and a deposit of fifty dollars ($50.00) to be eligible
for water and sewer service. After a tenant vacates the rental property and all
water and sewer bills have been paid in full, each such tenant shall receive a
refund of the fifty dollar ($50.00) deposit. (Ord., 12-12-2005)
8-3-3: FINAL METER READING:
Whenever a tenant or landlord requests a final water reading on a rental
property, the water will be disconnected at that time unless the landlord
specifies otherwise. In the event the city is requested to not disconnect the
water service following the final reading, the landlord will be responsible for
any water usage until such time as the new tenant registers at city hall as
provided in section
 8-3-2 of this chapter. The city will not charge a water shutoff or turn on fee
due to final reading disconnections. (Ord., 12-12-2005)
8-3-4: DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS:
If a past due water/sewer service account occurs with respect to rental
property, a copy of the statement indicating the delinquent account shall be
mailed to the landlord of record. If that delinquent account has not been
satisfied in full by the shutoff date, the water/sewer service will be
disconnected until a thirty dollar ($30.00) turn on fee, plus payment in full
of all past due charges, is received by the city. A reconnection of water
services will only be available during normal water and sewer business hours
which are seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to three o'clock (3:00) P.M., Monday
through Friday of each week excluding holidays when the city employees are not
required to work. (Ord., 12-12-2005)
8-3-5: TENANT VACATION OF PROPERTY; LANDLORD RESPONSIBILITY:
If a tenant vacates a rental property with an unpaid billing in excess of the
deposit, the landlord shall be responsible for paying the remainder of the
bill, and the fifty dollar ($50.00) deposit shall be forfeited. (Ord., 12-12-
2005)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
Title; Definitions; Interpretation   1
Administration And Enforcement   2
Zoning Board Of Appeals   2A
Special Uses   2B
Zoning Districts And Map   3
General Zoning Regulations   4
C Conservation District   5
Residential Districts   6
R-1 Single-Family District   6A
R-2 Multi-Family District   6B
B Commercial District   7
Industrial Districts   8
I-1 Light Industrial District   8A
I-2 Heavy Industrial District   8B
Planned Residential Developments   9
Off Street Parking And Loading   10
Signs   11
Nonconformities   12
Home Renovation Program (Rep. by Ord. 2021-11-8, 11-8-2021)   13
Wind Energy Conversion Systems   14
Solar Energy Equipment   15
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Definitions
9-1-3: Interpretation And Application
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the CITY OF TOLUCA ZONING
ORDINANCE. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
   ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building which is located on the lot of the main
building, or a portion of the main building, the use of which is clearly
incidental to the main use of the main building.
   APARTMENT: One or more rooms in a multi-family structure arranged, intended,
designed or occupied as the residence of a single family, individual, or group
of individuals.
   AUTO WRECKING YARD OR JUNKYARD: Any place where two (2) or more motor
vehicles not in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and
are not restored to operation within thirty (30) days of their arrival; or any
portion of any land, building or structure used for wrecking or storing of such
motor vehicles or parts thereof, stored in the open and not being restored to
operating condition; and including the commercial salvaging and scavenging of
any other goods, articles or merchandise.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR: General repair, engine rebuilding or reconditioning of
motor vehicles; collision service, such as body, frame or fender straightening
and repair; overall painting of motor vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A place where gasoline (stored only in
underground tanks), kerosene, motor oil, and lubricants for the operation of
automobiles are retailed directly to the public on the premises, including, as
incidental thereto, minor accessories and services for automobiles, but not
including body and motor rebuilding and repair. When the dispensing, sale or
offering for sale of motor fuels or oil is incidental to the conduct of a
public garage, the premises shall be classified as a public garage.
   BASEMENT: A story, three (3) sides of which are partly below the level of
the street grade or ground nearest the building. A basement shall not be
considered a story for the purpose of height regulation unless it is
subdivided, rented, sold or leased for dwelling purposes.
   BASEMENT, HABITABLE: No basement or portion thereof shall be used for living
quarters unless the house above the basement is finished on the outside.
   BILLBOARD: Any structure or portion thereof upon which are signs or
advertisements used on an outdoor display. This definition does not include any
bulletin boards used to display official court or public office notices, or
church or fraternal organization bulletin boards, or signs advertising the sale
or lease of the premises on which the sign is located.
   BLOCK: That property abutting on one side of a street between the two (2)
nearest intersecting streets, railroad rights of way, or other natural
barriers.
   BOARDING HOUSE: A building where meals or lodging and meals are offered or
provided for compensation for three (3) or more, but not exceeding twenty (20),
persons.
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and
designed or intended for the shelter, support, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals or chattels.
   BUILDING LINE: For the purposes of this title, the building line is the same
as a front yard setback line.
   COURT: An open unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building and bounded on two (2) or more sides by such building.
   CURB GRADE: The established elevation of the curb in front of the building
measured at the center of such front. Where no curb grade has been established,
the city shall establish such curb level or its equivalent for the purpose of
this title.
   DECK: A level and rather narrow plain or platform which, for purposes of
this title, is located adjacent to one or more faces of the main structure, and
which is constructed over four feet (4') in height above the average level of
the adjoining ground.
   DEPTH OF LOT: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   DISTRICT: A section of the city of Toluca for which regulations governing
the height, area and use of buildings and premises are uniform.
   DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, but not an automobile house
trailer, designed for residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family
and multiple-family dwellings but not including hotels, boarding houses and
lodging houses.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed for
occupancy by two (2) or more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A detached building designed exclusively for occupancy
by one family.
   DWELLING, ROW: A group of two (2) or more attached one-family dwellings, not
more than two and one-half (21/2) stories in height nor more than two (2) rooms
deep.
   DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling or apartment designed
primarily for occupancy by one family for living or sleeping purposes.
   EARTH HOME: A masonry home, covered with soil on three (3) sides, and an
average of thirty inches (30") of soil on top.
   EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling unit consisting of one room, exclusive of
bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets or dining alcove directly off the principal
room, provided such dining alcove does not exceed one hundred twenty five (125)
square feet in area.
   FAMILY: Any number of individuals related by blood, marriage or adoption,
living, cooking and dining together in the same premises as a single
housekeeping unit, including domestic servants for whom, subject to the
provisions of this title, separate living quarters may be provided.
   FARMSTEAD: Can be new construction on a new site or can be the restoration,
rebuilding, renovating, construction, reconstruction, or remodeling, including
garages or utility buildings, on an existing parcel of real estate, whereupon
presently or formerly there existed a farmstead dwelling settlement.
   FOUNDATION, PERMANENT: A permanent foundation consists of continuous masonry
with footings, a minimum of thirty six inches (36") below grade level; or a
floating slab, a minimum of four inches (4") thick with reinforcing.
   FRONT: The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a public
street; and for a corner lot, the front shall be the shorter lot boundary along
a street.
   FRONT YARD: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building for the storage of not more than
three (3) motor driven vehicles, of which not more than one shall be a
commercial vehicle of not more than two (2) tons' capacity.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building, other than a private garage, used for the care,
repair of equipment or automobiles, or where such vehicles are parked or stored
for remuneration, hire or sale within the structure.
   GUESTHOUSE: A structure for human habitation, containing one or more rooms
with bath and toilet facilities, but not including a kitchen or facilities
which would provide a complete housekeeping unit.
   HALF STORY: That portion of a building under a gable, hip or gambrel roof,
which is unused or used only in conjunction with and by the occupants of the
floor immediately below.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING: The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level
or its equivalent established grade opposite the middle of the front of the
building to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the deck line for
mansard roofs; and to the mean height level (between eaves and ridge) for
gambrel and hip roofs. Where a building is located upon a terrace or slope, the
height may be measured from the average ground level at the building wall.
   HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful occupation carried on only by a member of the
family which resides on the premises, subject to the following limitations: no
commodities may be sold on the premises; no display may indicate from the
exterior of the building that it is being used in whole or in part for any
purpose other than that of a dwelling; and no person may be employed other than
a member of the immediate family who resides on the premises. A professional
person may use his residence for emergency consultation or treatment but not
for the general practice of his profession. No accessory building shall be used
for a home occupation.
   HOSPITAL OR SANATORIUM: An institution open to the public in which sick
patients or injured persons are given medical or surgical care, or for the care
of contagious diseases or incurable patients.
   HOTEL: A building in which lodging is offered or provided by compensation
with or without meals in which there are more than ten (10) guestrooms.
   KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more dogs, at least four
(4) months of age, are kept.
   LOADING SPACE: An off street space or berth on the same lot with a building,
or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and
which abuts upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
   LODGING HOUSE: A building where lodging is offered or provided for
compensation for three (3) or more, but not to exceed ten (10), guestrooms.
   LOT: A parcel of land used or suitable for occupancy by one main building or
one main use with permitted incidental buildings and providing open spaces as
required by this title and having its principal frontage upon a public street.
A lot may be land so recorded on the records of the recorder of deeds of
Marshall County, Illinois, or may include parts of or a combination of such
lots when adjacent to one another, provided such land is used for one
improvement.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot in one ownership located at the intersection of two (2)
streets or a lot bounded on two (2) sides by a curving street, any two (2)
chords of which form an angle of one hundred twenty degrees (120°) or less,
measured on the lot side.
   LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES: The lines bounding a "lot" as defined herein.
   LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot on a street where a majority of the lots
are facing one direction, where the street side side-lot line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its
rear.
   LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
right angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot
lines.
   MODULAR HOME: Is brought to the site in at least two (2) sections, is placed
upon a permanent foundation, and the wheels, if any, are removed.
   NONCONFORMING USE: Any building, structure or land lawfully occupied by a
use or lawfully situated at the effective date hereof or amendments hereto,
which does not conform after the effective date hereof or amendments hereto
with the regulations established herein.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open area, other than a street, used for the
temporary parking of more than four (4) automobiles and available for public
use, whether free or for compensation or as an accommodation for clients or
customers.
   PARKING SPACE: An area enclosed in the main building, in an accessory
building, or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one standard automobile,
which has adequate access to a public street or alley and permitting
satisfactory ingress and egress of an automobile.
   REAR YARD: An open space (unoccupied except for accessory buildings) on the
same lot with a building, between the rear line of the building and the rear
line of the lot, for the full width of the lot.
   SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the street wall of the
buildings and the front street line.
   SIDE YARD: An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between
the building and the side line of the lot and extending from the front lot line
to the rear yard.
   SIGNS, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING: Any card, cloth, paper, metal, painted glass,
wooden, plaster, stone or other sign of any purposes on the ground or on any
tree, wall, bush, rock, post, fence, building, structure, or thing whatsoever.
The term "placed", as used in the definitions of "outdoor advertising sign" and
"outdoor advertising structure" shall include erecting, constructing, posting,
painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving, or other
fastening, affixing or making visible in any manner whatsoever.
   STORY: That portion of a building included between any floor and the floor
next above it, or if there is no floor above, then the space between such floor
and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET LINE: The division line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and a
contiguous public street, including in such street, all property dedicated for
street purposes or subject to public easements therefor, or proposed for future
street right of way as designated in the major street plan.
   STREET WALL: That wall or part of a wall of a building or that part of the
wall or supports of a porch or other structure, nearest to and most nearly
parallel with the street, extending more than four feet six inches (4'6") above
the finished grade.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change which would prolong the life of the
supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns,
beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having location on the ground.
   TERRACE, OPEN: A level and rather narrow plain or platform which, for
purposes of this title, is located adjacent to one or more faces of the main
structure, and which is constructed not more than four feet (4') in height
above the average level of the adjoining ground.
   TOURIST COURT: A group of attached buildings containing individual sleeping
or living units, designed for or used temporarily by automobile tourists or
transients, with garage attached or parking space conveniently located to each
unit, including auto courts, motels, or motor lodges.
   TOURIST HOME: A dwelling in which overnight accommodations are provided or
offered for transient guests.
   TRAILER: A vehicle without motive power, designed to be drawn by a motor
vehicle and to be used for human habitation or for carrying persons or
property, including a trailer coach, house trailer, mobile home, trailer home,
or automobile house trailer and subject to the trailer or mobile home park
provisions of this title.
   TRAILER, AUTOMOBILE: A vehicle without motive power, designed to be drawn by
a motor vehicle and to be used for human habitation or for carrying persons or
property, including a trailer coach or house trailer.
   TRAILER OR MOBILE HOME PARK: An area where one or more trailers can be or
are intended to be parked, designed or intended to be used as living facilities
for one or more families.
   USE, PRINCIPAL: A "principal use" is the main use of land or buildings as
distinguished in a particular district, provided it conforms with all
requirements and regulations of such district.
   WADING POOLS: Less than one foot (1') deep. There are no zoning requirements
for wading pools.
   YARD: An open space on the same lot with a main building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this
title. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. Ord., 5-4-1981; Ord., 11-8-1982; 2015 Code)
9-1-3: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION:
   A.   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, all
decisions shall be based upon the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public safety, health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general
welfare.
   B.   It is not intended by this title to interfere with or abrogate or annul
any ordinance, rule, regulation or permit previously adopted or issued and not
in conflict with any of the provisions of this title, or which shall be adopted
or issued pursuant to any law relating to the use of buildings or premises. Nor
is it intended by this title to interfere with or annul any easement, covenant
or other agreement between parties. Provided, however, that where this title
imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises, or upon
the height of buildings or required larger open spaces than are imposed or
required by such ordinance, rule, regulation or permit, or by easement,
covenant or agreement, the provisions of this title shall control.
   C.   Should any section or provision of this title be declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of this title as a whole or any part thereof, other than the part so
declared to be invalid. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-2-1: Administration And Enforcement Officials
9-2-2: Building Permit And Zoning Certificates
9-2-3: Occupancy Certificate
9-2-4: Rules Of Procedure And Conduct
9-2-5: Fees
9-2-6: Penalty
9-2-1: ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   The administration of this title and the promulgation of its purpose
are hereby vested in the following city offices:
The office of the city building commissioner.
The zoning board of appeals.
The city council. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   The building commissioner or his duly designated and acting deputy
shall enforce this title and, in addition thereto and in furtherance of said
authority, he shall:
      1.   Issue all building permits and make and maintain records thereof;
      2.   Issue all occupancy certificates and make and maintain records
thereof;
      3.   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this title;
      4.   Maintain permanent and current records of this title, including, but
not limited to, all maps, amendments and special uses, variations, appeals and
applications therefor and records of hearings thereon;
      5.   Prepare and cause to be published on or before March 31 of each year
a map showing the existing zoning uses, divisions, restrictions, regulations
and classifications in effect on the preceding December 31;
      6.   Receive, file and forward to the zoning board of appeals for action
all applications for variations, special uses, amendments, and the records in
all appeals; and
      7.   Provide such clerical and technical assistance as may be required by
the zoning board of appeals in the exercise of its duties. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-2-2: BUILDING PERMIT AND ZONING CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Except as hereinafter provided, no building permit pertaining to the
use of land or buildings shall be issued by any employee of the city unless the
application for such permit has been examined by the building commissioner and
has affixed thereto or stamped thereon a certificate of the office of the
building commissioner that the proposed building or structure complies with all
the provisions of this title. Any permit or occupancy certificate issued in
conflict with the provisions of this title shall be null and void.
   B.   Every application for a building permit for a building in the I-1 light
industrial district or I-2 heavy industrial district shall have affixed thereto
the certificate of an architect or registered professional engineer licensed by
the state of Illinois stating that, in his opinion, the building or structure
and the proposed use thereof comply with all the provisions of this title.
Within twenty (20) days after the receipt of such application, with the
aforesaid certificate attached thereto, the building commissioner shall affix a
zoning certificate to the building permit, provided there is compliance with
all relevant provisions of this title, or the building commissioner shall
refuse to issue a zoning certificate and shall advise the applicant in writing
as to the reasons for said refusal.
   C.   Every application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a plat,
in duplicate, of the piece or parcel of land, lot, lots, block or blocks, or
parts or portions thereof, drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of the
piece or parcel, lot, lots, block or blocks or parts or portions thereof,
according to the registered or recorded plat of such land; and said plat shall
further show the ground area, height, and bulk of the building or structure,
the building lines in relation to lot lines, the use to be made of the building
or structure or land, and such other information as may be required by the
building commissioner for the proper enforcement of this title. (Ord., 5-13-
1968)
9-2-3: OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Certificate Required:
      1.   No building, or addition thereto, constructed after the effective
date hereof and no addition to a previously existing building shall be
occupied, and no land vacant on the effective date hereof shall be used for any
purpose until an occupancy certificate has been issued by the office of the
building commissioner.
      2.   No change in a use in the B or I districts shall be made until an
occupancy certificate has been issued by the office of the building
commissioner. Every occupancy certificate shall state that the use or occupancy
complies with all the provisions of this title.
   B.   Application For Certificate: Every application for a building permit
shall be deemed to be an application for an occupancy certificate. Every
application for an occupancy certificate for a new or changed use of land where
no building permit is required shall be made directly to the office of the
building commissioner.
   C.   Issuance Or Denial Of Certificate:
      1.   No occupancy certificate for a building or addition thereto
constructed after the effective date hereof shall be issued until construction
has been completed and the premises inspected and certified by the office of
the building commissioner to be in conformity with the plans and specifications
upon which the zoning certificate was based.
      2.   No addition to a previously existing building shall be occupied in
any district and no new use of a building in any B or I district shall be
established until the premises has been inspected and certified by the office
of the building commissioner to be in compliance with all the applicable
standards of the zoning district in which it is located.
      3.   Pending the issuance of a regular certificate, a temporary
certificate may be issued to be valid for a period not to exceed six (6) months
from its date during the completion of any addition or during partial occupancy
of the premises.
      4.   An occupancy certificate shall be issued or written notice shall be
given to the applicant stating the reasons why a certificate cannot be issued
not later than fourteen (14) days after the office of the building commissioner
is notified in writing that the building or premises is ready for occupancy.
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-2-4: RULES OF PROCEDURE AND CONDUCT:
   A.   All petitions shall be brought in the name of the record title owner,
or the owner or owners of the beneficial interest, individually or through
their attorneys or authorized agent. If a contract purchaser or tenant shall be
involved, either with or without a contingent right, the contract purchaser or
tenant shall be revealed and become a second party to the petition, but such
contract purchaser or tenant may not file without the owner.
   B.   Every appeal which shall be made to the zoning board of appeals shall
be initiated in the following manner only:
      1.   There shall be delivered to the building commissioner a proper
petition requesting such hearing and setting forth the facts and details as
prescribed by ordinance.
      2.   There shall be paid to the building commissioner the required filing
fee.
      3.   In the event the location or description in the petition of the
property concerned is such as to not be adequately ascertainable, in the
opinion of the building commissioner, then a plat of survey, made by a
registered Illinois land surveyor, shall be attached to the petition when
filed, or shall be presented at the time of the hearing.
      4.   The petitioner, his attorney or his agent, shall also furnish the
building commissioner with the full names and addresses of the persons who have
last paid taxes on all property contiguous to or abutting the parcel or parcels
concerned in the petition, including such taxpayers of record as may own
property across the road, street, or alley which may abut the premises
concerned on one or more sides. It shall then be the duty of the building
commissioner to send such persons a copy of the publication notice concerning
the hearing by certified mail. The petitioner shall furnish the building
commissioner with as many copies of the publication notice as shall be required
for this purpose.
   C.   All publication notices shall contain a simple description of the
property as to area and location, of such a nature as to enable the ordinary
reader to accurately locate such parcel. This description shall be in addition
to the required metes and bounds or lot and block description.
   D.   In the event objectors to any petition shall employ counsel to
represent them at the hearing, it shall be the obligation of such counsel to
notify the petitioner, his attorney or agent, that he has been so retained and
will be present to object. Such notice shall be delivered to the petitioner,
his attorney, or agent, not later than four (4) days prior to the scheduled
hearing date. Failure of the objector's counsel to give such notice shall give
the petitioner, his attorney or agent, the option to postpone the hearing until
another day certain.
   E.   Continuances may be granted on good cause shown and at the discretion
of the zoning board of appeals by majority vote.
   F.   Attorneys may submit a listing of proponents or opponents of the
petition, and the same will be accepted as an exhibit. However, such a list
shall contain nothing more than the signatures of those for or against the
petition, along with a brief statement concerning their position.
   G.   When the prayer of the petition requests a change in classification
only, with no prayer for a variation in the alternative, no evidence concerning
type of structure or intended use shall be admitted without the approval of the
zoning board of appeals.
   H.   Evidence concerning the particular use and character of use, including
plans, specifications, cost of improvements and duration of use, shall be
properly admitted when the petition shall request a variation, or an amendment
with an alternate prayer for variation covering such particular use.
   I.   The public hearing procedure shall be as follows:
      1.   Call to order.
      2.   Parties of interest in petition present.
      3.   Reading of the petition, verification of notice by publication and
to abutting owners.
      4.   Identification and recording of objectors, if any.
      5.   Presentation of evidence by petitioner.
      6.   Questions by zoning board of appeals members and by others.
      7.   Presentation of evidence by objectors.
      8.   Questions by zoning board of appeals members and by others.
      9.   Petitioner's closing statement, if desired.
      10.   Adjournment.
   J.   Any matter coming before the zoning board of appeals by scheduled
hearing may be heard by any three (3) or more members of the said board. Should
any less than three (3) members be present, any petitioner or objector, or
representative thereof, may request a continuance of the matter in order that
it may be heard before three (3) or more members of the zoning board of
appeals.
   K.   The zoning board of appeals shall meet at least once a month for the
purpose of voting upon all petitions heard by said board prior to the day of
such voting meeting. The concurring vote of five (5) members of the zoning
board of appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision
or determination of any administrative official, or to decide in favor of the
appellant any matter upon which it is required to pass under this title, or to
effect any variation in this title. Copies of the report of the zoning board of
appeals as made to the city council shall be mailed to petitioners, their
attorneys or agents, and to the attorney or agent of the objectors, if any.
Such copies of the report shall be mailed not less than five (5) days prior to
the meeting of the city council at which the recommendation is to be acted
upon.
   L.   Should the zoning board of appeals recommend to the city council that
the prayer of the petition be granted, it shall be the obligation of the
attorney for the petitioner to prepare a suitable ordinance incorporating the
exact findings and recommendations of the zoning board of appeals for
submission to the city council in order to effect the amending or variance of
the ordinance properly, should the city council accept the recommendation of
the zoning board of appeals.
   M.   The report of the zoning board of appeals shall contain a short summary
of the petition, location of the property, and the reasons advanced by the
zoning board of appeals for rejecting or approving the prayer of the petition.
The report shall also contain the recommendation of the zoning board of
appeals, and shall indicate the making of the motion, the seconding thereof,
and all votes for or against the motion. Members not voting or absent shall
also be recorded.
   N.   A petition for variation, amendment or special use, which shall have
been denied by the zoning board of appeals and the city council, shall not be
brought before the zoning board of appeals again until one year shall have
passed from the date of the first public hearing, unless the prayer of the
petition shall request a different amendment or variation, or some change in
circumstances has affected the status of the property in a substantial manner.
The petitioner, his attorney or agent, may present to the zoning board of
appeals such reason or reasons as he feels should be sufficient to justify a
hearing on the plat or parcel within the one year period, and it shall be at
the discretion of the said board to allow or disallow such subsequent hearing.
   O.   The zoning board of appeals may postpone a vote on recommendation on
any petition for only one of its voting meetings, but a vote and recommendation
upon such petition must be made at the next voting meeting thereafter, unless
further delay is with the approval of the petitioner, his attorney or agent.
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-2-5: FEES:
Any applications for a variation, amendment or special use which is filed by or
on behalf of the owner or owners of the property affected shall be accompanied
by a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this title shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than ten dollars
($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. Each day
that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
ARTICLE A. ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Board Created
9-2A-2: Composition, Appointment And Terms
9-2A-3: Removals And Vacancies
9-2A-4: Compensation
9-2A-5: Organization And Rules
9-2A-6: Jurisdiction
9-2A-7: Hearings
9-2A-8: Board Recommendations; Council Decisions; Protests
9-2A-9: Standards For Variations
9-2A-10: Appeals
9-2A-11: Amendments
9-2A-1: BOARD CREATED:
A zoning board of appeals is hereby authorized to be established. The word
"board", when used in this article, shall be construed to mean the zoning board
of appeals. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-2A-2: COMPOSITION, APPOINTMENT AND TERMS:
The board shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by the mayor of the
city, by and with the consent of the city council. The members of the board
shall serve respectively for the following terms, or until their respective
successors are appointed and qualified: one for one year, one for two (2)
years, one for three (3) years, one for four (4) years, one for five (5) years,
one for six (6) years and one for seven (7) years, the successor to each member
so appointed to serve for a term of five (5) years. (Ord., 5-4-1981; amd. 2015
Code)
9-2A-3: REMOVALS AND VACANCIES:
The mayor shall have the power to remove any member of the board for cause and
after a public hearing. Vacancies upon the board shall be filled for the
unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant, in the same manner
herein provided for the appointment of such member. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-2A-4: COMPENSATION:
The members of the zoning board of appeals shall serve without salary. (Ord.,
5-13-1968)
9-2A-5: ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
   A.   Chair: One of the members of the board shall be designated by the mayor
as chair of the board and shall hold his office as chair until his successor is
appointed. The chair shall conduct all meetings of the board, but in case of
his absence, the attending members shall delegate one of the members present to
serve as acting chair. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
   B.   Meetings:
      1.   All meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chair and
at such other times as the board shall determine. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. 2015
Code)
      2.   All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
      3.   The chair, or in his absence the acting chair, shall administer
oaths to those testifying and may compel the attendance of witnesses through
the use of subpoena.
      4.   Any person may appear and testify at a hearing, and it is not
necessary such persons be represented by an attorney. All testimony given shall
be under oath.
   C.   Minutes And Records:
      1.   The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall also keep records of its hearings and other official
actions.
      2.   Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and
every order, requirement, decision or determination of the board shall be filed
in the office of the building commissioner and shall be a public record.
   D.   Rules Of Procedure: The board shall adopt its own rules of procedure,
not in conflict with this title, or in conflict with the applicable Illinois
statutes.
   E.   Staff: The city council shall provide such secretarial, legal or
administrative assistance as shall be necessary in the opinion of the council
to permit the board to fulfill its functions. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-2A-6: JURISDICTION:
   A.   The board shall hear and decide appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the building commissioner. It
shall also hear and decide all matters referred thereto or upon which it is
required to act under this title. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the building
commissioner, or to decide in favor of the applicant in any matter upon which
it is required to pass under this title, or to effect any variation in this
title or to recommend any variation or modification to this title to the city
council. (Ord., 5-4-1981; amd. 2015 Code)
9-2A-7: HEARINGS:
   A.   Petition For Hearing: All petitions for hearings held in accordance
with the provisions of this title shall be filed with the office of the
building commissioner. The petitions shall conform to the information
requirements as established by this title and as the board may, from time to
time, by rule provide.
   B.   Hearing Date: The board shall set a hearing date which shall be not
more than sixty (60) days after the filing of the petition.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: A notice of the hearing shall be published at least
once, not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the said
hearing date, in one or more newspapers with a general circulation within the
city. The petitioner shall provide the notice, which shall contain information
as provided by rule of the board. The board may supplement such published
notice by additional form, or forms, of notice as it may by rule provide.
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-2A-8: BOARD RECOMMENDATIONS; COUNCIL DECISIONS; PROTESTS:
   A.   The board shall have the power of recommendation only, such
recommendations to include findings in accordance with the provisions of this
title and to be submitted to the city council for final action in such form and
at such times as are provided by rule in this title.
   B.   No amendments of the regulations of this title, or variation of the
requirements of this title, or permit for special uses, shall be made or given
except after a hearing before the zoning board of appeals.
   C.   In the event the report of the zoning board of appeals does not
recommend passage of the proposed amendment, granting of the variation, or
issuance of the special use permit, a favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all
members of the city council shall be required to reverse such recommendation.
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
   D.   In the event a written protest against the proposed amendment,
variation or special use permit is filed with the zoning board of appeals by
the city council, and provided that the written protest is signed and
acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately
adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent
(20%) of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, a
two-thirds (2/3) vote of all the members of the city council shall be required
to effect passage of the amendment, granting of the variation, or issuance of
the special use permit. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. 2015 Code)
   E.   The powers granted the board in this title may, from time to time, be
altered, enlarged, or restricted, as the city council may from time to time
determine and effect by ordinance. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-2A-9: STANDARDS FOR VARIATIONS:
Where an application for a variation of any of the regulations of this title is
made to the board in which it is alleged that practical difficulties or
particular hardship, not intended or not common to the owners of property in
the vicinity, will be imposed in carrying out the strict letter of any such
regulation, the board may vary the application of such regulations in harmony
with the general purposes and intent of this title and in accordance with the
following rules:
   A.   The particular physical surroundings, shapes, or topographical
condition of the specific property involved would result in a particular
hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the
strict letter of the regulations were carried out;
   B.   The conditions upon which the petition for variation is based are
unique and would not be applicable, generally, to the other property within the
same zoning classification;
   C.   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a desire to
make more money out of the property;
   D.   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any person
presently having an interest in the property;
   E.   The granting of the variation will not be materially detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; and
   F.   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of light and
air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion in the
public streets, or increase the danger of fire, or endanger the public safety,
or substantially diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood.
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-2A-10: APPEALS:
   A.   Authority To Appeal: An appeal may be taken to the board by any person,
firm or corporation, or by an officer, department, board or bureau affected by
a decision of the office of the building commissioner relative to the
interpretation of this title. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
   B.   Filing Appeal: Such appeal shall be taken within forty five (45) days
of the action complained of, by filing with the office of the building
commissioner and with the board of appeals a notice of appeal, specifying the
grounds thereof. The building commissioner shall forthwith transmit to the
board all of the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the building commissioner
certifies to the board after the notice of appeal has been filed with him that,
by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case, the proceedings shall
not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by
the board or by a court of record on application, on notice to the building
commissioner and on due cause shown.
   D.   Hearing: The board shall select a reasonable time and place for the
hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the interested parties and
shall render a written decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. The
board may affirm or may, upon the concurring vote of five (5) members, reverse,
wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement, decision or determination,
as in its opinion ought to be done, and to that end, shall have all the powers
of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
   E.   Records Kept: The building commissioner shall maintain complete records
of all actions of the board relative to appeals, and shall keep the city
council informed on a current basis of the disposition of each case. (Ord., 5-
13-1968)
9-2A-11: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: It is recognized that changes in conditions within the city
may require that there be amendments from time to time to this title. Said
amendments shall be made, if at all, only when it is found by the city council,
following a report of the zoning board of appeals, that such amendments are
required in the public interest. No amendments shall be made to this title
solely for the private interest of an applicant. While variations, as herein
provided, are designed to relieve individual hardship and the basis for
variations is the injury which may be caused to the individual by the general
application of the provisions of this title, the considerations upon which
amendments shall be judged are directed exclusively to the welfare of the
entire community.
   B.   Authority: The regulations imposed and the districts created under the
authority of this title may be amended from time to time by ordinance, but no
such amendments shall be made without a public hearing before the zoning board
of appeals. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
   C.   Initiation Of Amendment: Amendments may be proposed by the city council
or by any resident of or owner of property in the city. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd.
2015 Code)
ARTICLE B. SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
9-2B-1: Purpose; Special Uses Enumerated
9-2B-2: Permit Procedures
9-2B-3: Hearing And Standards
9-2B-4: Conditions Of And Restrictions On Uses
9-2B-1: PURPOSE; SPECIAL USES ENUMERATED:
The development and execution of a comprehensive zoning ordinance is based upon
the division of the city into districts within which districts the use of land
and buildings and the bulk and location of buildings and structures in relation
to the land are substantially uniform. It is recognized, however, that there
are special uses which, because of their unique characteristics, cannot be
properly classified in any particular district or districts without
consideration, in each case, of the impact of those uses upon neighboring land
and of the public need for the particular use at the particular location. Such
special uses are uses either municipally operated, or operated by publicly
regulated utilities or uses traditionally affected with a public interest, and
they are herewith designated as follows:
Airport, landing field, or landing strip.
Areas for the dumping or disposal of trash or garbage.
Bus terminal, railroad passenger stations, or any other transportation terminal
facilities.
Cemeteries, crematories or mausoleums.
Extraction of gravel, sand or other raw materials.
Hospitals or sanatoriums.
Marinas, yacht clubs, boathouses and bait shops.
Nursery schools, day nurseries, and childcare centers, provided there is a
minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of outdoor play area for each child to
be cared for, and that the play area is fenced and screened with plantings from
any adjoining lot in any R district.
Nursing or rest home, orphanages, homes for aged.
Private park or playground.
Privately owned recreation building or community center.
Public utility facilities, i.e., filtration plant or pumping station, heat or
power plant, transformer station and other similar facilities.
Radio and television (commercial) transmitting or antenna towers and other
electronic equipment requiring outdoor towers and including antenna towers for
the dispatching of private messages.
Railroad right of way.
Storage and sale of fertilizer, LP gas and seed.
Trailer parks.
Wind Energy Conversion Systems (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. Ord. 2025-6-9. 6-9-2025)
9-2B-2: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
Applications for special use permits shall be in the same form as those filed
for variations and amendments to this title, and all procedures shall be as
herein set forth in regard to such hearings and findings. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-2B-3: HEARING AND STANDARDS:
Special uses shall be authorized by the city council; provided, that a public
hearing concerning such request for special use permit shall first be held by
the zoning board of appeals in proper form and, upon the recommendation of the
zoning board of appeals, the city council, in order to approve the special use
permit requested, shall find that:
   A.   The special use will not cause substantial injury to the value of other
property in the neighborhood in which it is to be located.
   B.   The location and size of the special use, the nature and intensity of
the operation involved in or conducted in connection therewith, the size of the
site in relation thereto, and the location of the site with respect to streets
giving access thereto, shall be such that it will be in harmony with the
appropriate and orderly development of the district in which it is to be
located.
   C.   The location, nature and height of buildings, walls and fences, and the
nature and extent of the landscaping on the site shall be such that the use
will not hinder or discourage the appropriate development and the use of
adjacent land and buildings, or will not impair the value thereof.
   D.   Parking areas shall be of adequate size for the particular use,
properly located, and suitably screened from adjoining residential uses, and
the entrance and exit drives shall be laid out so as to prevent traffic hazards
and nuisances. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-2B-4: CONDITIONS OF AND RESTRICTIONS ON USES:
The zoning board of appeals may recommend and the city council may provide such
conditions or restrictions upon the construction, location and operation of a
special use including, but not limited to, provisions for off street parking
and loading, as shall be deemed necessary to secure the general objectives of
this title and to reduce injury to the value of property in the neighborhood.
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
9-3-1: Districts Established
9-3-2: Zoning Map; Compliance With District Regulations
9-3-3: Determination Of District Boundaries
9-3-4: Zoning Of Annexed Land
9-3-5: Zoning Of Land Outside Corporate Limits
9-3-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to classify, regulate and restrict the locations of trades and
industries, and the location of buildings designed for specified uses; to
regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected or
altered; to regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas; and to
regulate and determine the area of yards, courts, and other open spaces within
and surrounding such buildings, the city, and the land lying outside of and
contiguous for a distance of up to one and one-half (11/2) miles from the
corporate limits of the city, as hereinafter set forth, is hereby divided into
the following districts. The use, height, and area regulations are uniform in
each of the regulation districts, and said districts shall be known as: (Ord.,
5-13-1968; amd. Ord., 5-4-1981)
 
C   Conservation district
R-1 Single-family district
R-2 Multi-family district
B   Commercial district
I-1 Light industrial district
I-2 Heavy industrial district
 
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-3-2: ZONING MAP; COMPLIANCE WITH DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   The boundaries of the districts established in section
9-3-1 of this chapter are indicated upon the zoning map of the city, which map
is on file in the city. The city zoning map, with all the notations,
references, and other matters shown thereon, shall be as much a part of this
title as if the notations, references and other matters set forth by said map
were all fully described herein. Except after obtaining written permission from
the building commissioner and except as hereinafter provided:
      1.   No building shall be erected or altered, nor shall any building or
premises be used for any purpose, other than is permitted in the district in
which such building or premises is located.
      2.   No buildings shall be erected or altered to exceed in height the
limit herein established for the district in which such building is located.
      3.   No building shall be erected, nor shall any existing building be
altered, enlarged, or rebuilt, nor shall any open spaces surrounding any
building be encroached upon or reduced in any manner, except in conformity with
the area regulations hereby established for the district in which such building
is located.
   B.   Unless otherwise prohibited or restricted, a permitted use also allows
such use, building or structure as is clearly incidental thereto and compatible
with the principal use, if located on the same lot. Incidental uses, buildings
or structures shall not be established or erected prior to the establishment or
construction of the principal use. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-3-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys, unless otherwise
shown, and where the designations on the zoning map indicate that the various
districts are approximately bounded by street or alley lines, such streets or
alleys shall be construed to be the boundaries of such district.
   B.   Where the district boundaries are not shown to be streets or alleys and
where the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots,
the district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the
designations on the zoning map indicate that the various districts are
approximately bounded by lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be the
boundaries of such districts.
   C.   Where the district boundaries are not shown by streets or alleys or lot
or block lines, the district boundaries shall be determined by use of the scale
shown on the map. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-3-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
Any area annexed to the city shall, upon such annexation, be automatically
classified in the C conservation district. Within sixty (60) days after date of
annexation, the city council shall hold a public hearing in the manner provided
for amendments to this title. The city council shall classify the area in the
same district or such other district as it shall determine within one hundred
twenty (120) days of the date of annexation. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. 2015 Code)
9-3-5: ZONING OF LAND OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS:
   A.   In addition to land lying within its corporate limits, the city, after
proper notice and hearing, hereby exercises its right to zone the following
land, all of which lies within one and one-half (11/2) miles outside of and
contiguous to its corporate limits:
      1.   In Township 30 North, Range 1 East of the 3rd Principal Meridian,
Marshall County, Illinois (Evans Township):
All that part of the West Half of the East Half of Section 28, and all that
part of the West Half of Section 28, which lie South of the Illinois Central
Gulf Railroad right-of-way;
All of Sections 29, 31 and 33;
All that part of the East Half of Section 30 lying South of the Illinois
Central Gulf Railroad right-of-way;
All that part of Section 32 lying outside the corporate limits of the City of
Toluca;
West Half of the South 240 acres of the West Half of Section 34.
      2.   In Township 30 North, Range 1 West of the 3rd Principal Meridian,
Marshall County, Illinois (Bennington Township):
All of Sections 6, 7 and 9;
All those parts of Sections 4, 5 and 8 lying outside of the corporate limits of
the City of Toluca;
West Quarter of Sections 3 and 10;
North Quarter of Sections 16 and 18;
North Half of Section 17.
      3.   In Township 29 North, Range 1 West of the 3rd Principal Meridian,
Marshall County, Illinois (Bell Plain Township):
East Half of Section 1;
East Quarter of Section 12.
   B.   All of said land lying outside the corporate limits of the city is
hereby zoned C conservation district, except for that tract of land in section
4 of Bennington Township known as Bayless Subdivision, which is hereby zoned R-
2 multi-family district.
   C.   It is specifically provided by this title that there shall be no fee
charged for any permit required to be issued because of this section for any
property not within the corporate limits of the city and zoned C conservation
district. (Ord., 5-4-1981)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Height Of Building And Appurtenances
9-4-2: Buildings On Lots; Access
9-4-3: Setbacks
9-4-4: Yards And Open Spaces
9-4-5: Accessory Buildings
9-4-6: Fences
9-4-7: Vision At Intersections
9-4-8: Satellite Dishes
9-4-9: Wind Generators
9-4-10: Surface Water Drainage
9-4-11: Occupancy Of Basements
9-4-12: Buildings Under Construction
9-4-13: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
9-4-14: Exemptions For Agricultural Uses
9-4-15: Swimming Pools
9-4-1: HEIGHT OF BUILDING AND APPURTENANCES:
   A.   Public or semipublic buildings, churches, hospitals, sanatoriums, or
schools may be erected to a height not exceeding forty feet (40'), or three (3)
stories; provided, that where they are located in any residence district, they
must be set back from each property line at least one foot (1') for each foot
of additional building height above the limit for the district, in addition to
the other front and side yard requirements of the district.
   B.   Penthouses or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways,
tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain
the building, and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples,
flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, radio and television aerials or antennas,
wireless masts, water tanks, or similar structures may be erected above the
height limits herein prescribed. No such structure may be erected to exceed by
more than twenty five feet (25') the height limits of the district in which it
is located; except, that aerials or antennas designed to aid home television
reception may be erected to a height not to exceed sixty feet (60') from the
ground level, provided said aerial or antenna is attached to the building or
erected in the rear yard area. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-4-2: BUILDINGS ON LOTS; ACCESS:
   A.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered to provide
dwelling units shall be located on a "lot" as defined in section
9-1-2 of this title, and in no case shall there be more than one such building
on one lot unless otherwise provided.
   B.   No building shall be constructed or erected upon a lot or parcel of
land which does not abut upon a public street or permanent easement of access
to a public street, which easement shall have a minimum width of twenty five
feet (25'), unless an easement of lesser width was of record or of established
use for seventeen (17) years prior to the effective date hereof.
   C.   No residential structure shall be erected upon the rear of a lot or
upon a lot with another dwelling; except, that if a two-story garage has living
quarters upon the second floor, such quarters may be occupied by a servant (and
his family) of the family occupying the main structure. There may also be
constructed a guesthouse (without kitchen) or rooms for guests within an
accessory building, provided such facilities are used for the occasional
housing of guests of the occupants of the main structure and not for permanent
occupancy by others as a housekeeping unit.
   D.   No private property located in an R residential district shall be used
as a vehicular accessway to any parcel located in any B or I district. (Ord.,
5-13-1968)
9-4-3: SETBACKS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions in regard to setbacks in residential areas
as are set forth in this title, if sixty percent (60%) of any defined
residential block is improved with buildings at the effective date hereof and
the entire improved frontage shall have been established to a setback line
which is appropriate to the residential district in which the property is
located, then the setback existing at the effective date hereof shall be
accepted as a proper minimum, and no hearing for variation shall be required to
permit the construction of a building or structure conforming to the existing
setback. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-4-4: YARDS AND OPEN SPACES:
   A.   No space which, for the purpose of a building or dwelling group, has
been counted or calculated as part of a side yard, rear yard, front yard, court
or other open space required by this title, may, by reason of change in
ownership or otherwise, be counted or calculated to satisfy or comply with a
yard, court, or other open space requirement of or for any other dwelling.
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
   B.   An open terrace, but not including a roofed over porch or terrace, may
occupy a front yard, provided the unoccupied portion of the front yard has a
depth of not less than fifteen feet (15'). A one-story bay window may project
into a front yard not more than three feet (3'). Overhanging eaves, including
gutters, may project into the minimum required side yard not more than eighteen
inches (18"). (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. Ord., 11-8-1982)
   C.   The minimum yard or other open space, including lot areas per family
required by this title, for each and every building existing at the effective
date hereof or for any building hereafter erected, shall not be encroached upon
or considered as yard or open space requirements for any other building.
   D.   Every part of a required yard or court shall be open from its lowest
point to the sky unobstructed, except for the ordinary projections of skylights
above the bottom of such yard or court, and except for the projections of
sills, belt courses, cornices and ornamental features not to exceed twenty four
inches (24"). (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-4-5: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted in this title, shall be
subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Where an accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be subject to and must conform to all regulations of this
title applicable to the main building.
   B.   An accessory building may not be located nearer than three feet (3') to
any interior lot line and not nearer than five feet (5') to the rear lot line.
   C.   No detached accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet
(10') of any main building.
   D.   An accessory building shall not be erected prior to the establishment
or construction of the principal use of the building.
   E.   No accessory building shall be located within the required front yard.
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-4-6: FENCES:
   A.   Permit Requirements: No fence shall be constructed without first
obtaining a building permit. A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be due
upon issuance of the permit. Before a permit can be issued, it is the
responsibility of the property owner that is constructing the fence to provide
to the Zoning Board proof of the location of the property lines that the fence
will be bordering.
   B.   Positioning Of Fence Supports, Posts And Beams: All fences shall be
erected so that the supports, posts, and beams are inside the fence on the
owner's side. The cosmetic side shall face the neighboring property.
   C.   JULIE To Be Notified: It is the responsibility of the property owner
erecting the fence to notify JULIE before excavation for the fence posts and
supports is done.
   D.   Residential And Ornamental Fences: Fences are permitted in residential
districts, but shall not in any case be permitted in front yards (except as set
forth below) nor exceed a height of six feet (6'). Fences are permitted in
front yards, provided they do not exceed three feet (3') in height, and are of
open or rail construction that does not restrict motor vehicle driver or
pedestrian visibility. No fence shall be constructed closer than two feet (2')
to any property line. The owner of the fence shall be responsible for
maintenance of the area between the fence and the property line.
   E.   Type of Fence: Fences in residential districts shall be made of the
following materials produced for use in fence construction: aluminum, wrought
iron, wood, stone, stucco, masonry, chain link or vinyl shall be permitted in
residential districts. No pallet type material may be used. All materials to be
used in the construction of a fence are subject to the approval of the building
commissioner at the time of issuance of the building permit. (Ord., 8-11-2003;
amd. Ord. 2017-6-12, 6-12-2017; Ord. 2024-11-12, 11-11-2024)
9-4-7: VISION AT INTERSECTIONS:
On any corner lot where a front or side yard is required or provided, no
building, fence or hedge or other obstruction shall be placed so as to
interfere with clear vision in a motor vehicle from one street to the other
across the corner. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. 2015 Code)
9-4-8: SATELLITE DISHES:
No satellite dish shall be located within the required rear yard and shall not
be located in a rear or side yard closer than six feet (6') to the interior lot
line or six feet (6') to the rear lot line, and shall not exceed fifteen feet
(15') in diameter or two hundred (200) square feet in area. (Ord., 10-11-1983)
9-4-9: WIND GENERATORS:
   A.   Wind generators must be installed on a building or in the back yard.
   B.   The sound emitted from a wind generator must be no more than fifty (50)
decibels at the lot line. (Ord., 11-8-1982)
9-4-10: SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE:
   A.   A landowner has the right to do certain things to improve the drainage
on his land. He can: 1) widen, deepen, and clean natural depressions that carry
his surface water; 2) straighten out channels on his own property and
accelerate the movement of surface water, so long as he does not change the
natural point of entry on lower land; 3) drain ponds or standing water in the
direction that they overflow; 4) tile his property to expedite the flow of
water so long as he does not change the point of entry on lower land, bring in
water from another watershed, or connect his tile to the tile of other owners
without consent; 5) fill ponds or low places where water may stand and force
water out into natural drainage channels; 6) expedite the flow of surface
waters through natural lines of drainage by either open or closed drains, into
a watercourse or stream; 7) construct grass waterways, check dams, terraces, or
other soil conservation structures.
   B.   There are some things a landowner must not do to the lands that
surround him. He must not: 1) dam or obstruct a natural channel so that the
escape of surface water from higher land is retarded or so that the channel is
shifted; 2) divert water to lands that do not naturally receive his drainage;
3) change the point of entry of surface water on lower land; 4) bring in water
from another watershed that would not have flowed across lower land in a state
of nature; 5) pollute any waters that pass from his land through the property
of others, whether surface or underground waters, streams, or diffused waters;
6) connect tile with other owners' tile lines or with highway tile lines
without consent; 7) dam up or impound large bodies of water which escape and
cause serious damage to owners on lower lands, even though such waters may
escape through natural channels; 8) accelerate the flow of water needlessly or
with malicious intent to the material damage of the owner of lower land, even
though the flow is accelerated through natural channels. (Ord., 11-8-1982)
9-4-11: OCCUPANCY OF BASEMENTS:
No basement shall be occupied as living quarters until a story above grade has
been completed and is ready for occupancy. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-4-12: BUILDINGS UNDER CONSTRUCTION:
Nothing in this title shall be deemed to require any change in the plans,
construction or designated use of any building upon which actual construction
was lawfully begun prior to the effective date hereof and upon which building
actual construction has been diligently carried on; and provided further, that
such building shall be completed within two (2) years from the effective date
hereof. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-4-13: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
Any separate tract, the title of which was of public record at the effective
date hereof, that does not meet the requirements of this title for yards,
courts or area of lots may be utilized for single-family residence purposes.
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-4-14: EXEMPTIONS FOR AGRICULTURAL USES:
Nothing contained herein shall impose restrictions or require a permit with
respect to land used or to be used for agricultural purposes, or with respect
to the erection, maintenance, repair, alteration or remodeling of buildings or
structures to be used for agricultural purposes upon such land; except, that
such buildings or structures for agricultural purposes must conform to building
or setback lines. (Ord., 5-4-1981)
9-4-15: SWIMMING POOLS:
The installation of above ground swimming pools shall require a building permit
(but no fee shall be charged for the building permit). All swimming pools, but
specifically excluding wading pools, are to have a fence around them at least
four (4) feet high with a lockable entrance. Material of the fence is to be
nonclimbable and shall conform to section
9-4-6. E of this city code, fence materials. The setbacks are to be the same as
for accessory buildings. The owner of an aboveground pool need not install a
fence if access to the pool is by a removable ladder, retractable ladder or
self locking ladder. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of such
aboveground pool to remove and secure, retract or lock the ladder when the pool
is not in use. (Ord. 2024-11-11, 11-11-2024)
CHAPTER 5
C CONSERVATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5-1: Permitted Uses
9-5-2: Prohibited Uses
9-5-3: Building Height
9-5-4: Yards And Lots
9-5-1: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the C conservation district are:
Earth homes.
Farms of not less than five (5) acres in size.
Farmsteads of at least one acre but less than five (5) acres in size.
Fishing and hunting clubs.
Large scale residential developments in accordance with chapter 9 of this
title.
Privately operated outdoor recreational facilities, including riding stables,
lakes, swimming pools, tennis courts and golf courses, provided they are
located on sites containing not less than five (5) acres.
Public and private schools.
Public parks and forest preserves.
Single-family dwellings on lots of five (5) acres or more.
Truck gardening.
Wildlife preserves and sanctuaries. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. Ord., 5-4-1981;
Ord., 11-8-1982)
9-5-2: PROHIBITED USES:
In the C conservation district, hazardous waste landfills and/or nuclear waste
landfills are prohibited. (Ord., 5-4-1981)
9-5-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected, altered or enlarged to
exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories, nor to exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height, except farm buildings. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-5-4: YARDS AND LOTS:
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected and no building or
structure shall hereafter be enlarged which would, when erected, conflict with,
or when enlarged or altered, would further conflict with, the following
requirements for yards and lot areas and coverage of lots: (Ord., 5-13-1968)
   A.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than thirty feet
(30'). (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. Ord., 5-4-1981)
      2.   Side Yards: On corner and interior lots, there shall be a side yard
on each side of a main building of not less than twenty feet (20') and a
combined total of side yards of not less than forty five feet (45').
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having an average depth of not
less than fifty feet (50').
   B.   Lot Coverage: Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the area of a lot
may be covered by main buildings, structures, or accessory buildings. (Ord., 5-
13-1968)
   C.   Lot Area: Every lot, farm or other parcel of land shall have a minimum
width at the front building line of one hundred feet (100') and a minimum of
one acre for all uses permitted in this district. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. Ord.,
5-4-1981)
CHAPTER 6
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-6A-1: Permitted Uses
9-6A-2: Building Height
9-6A-3: Yards And Lots
9-6A-1: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the R-1 single-family district are:
Accessory buildings, including a private garage, accessory living quarters,
guesthouse, recreation room, greenhouse, and bathhouse; provided, that no
kitchen facilities shall be provided except in the principal residential
building.
Any use permitted in the C conservation district including special uses as
provided in chapter 2, article B of this title.
Automobile parking space to be provided as required in chapter 10 of this
title.
Churches.
Golf courses, not including miniature courses or commercial driving ranges.
Police and fire stations and buildings for storage of municipal equipment.
Public administration buildings.
Public parks.
Public primary and secondary schools and private primary and secondary schools
with curricula substantially equivalent to a public school.
Signs, subject to chapter 11 of this title.
Single-family dwellings.
Special uses, subject to the provisions of chapter 2, article B of this title.
Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed one year.
Truck gardening and other horticultural uses, where no building is involved,
and not operated for profit.
Yard sales or garage sales, or similar sales by other names, provided items may
not be displayed longer than three (3) days, and the sale may not be repeated
within six (6) months on the same property.
Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses, including permitted home
occupations, as provided in this title. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. Ord., 11-11-
1983)
9-6A-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected, altered or enlarged to
exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories nor to exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-6A-3: YARDS AND LOTS:
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected and no building or
structure shall hereafter be enlarged which would, when erected, conflict with,
or when enlarged or altered, would further conflict with, the following
requirements for yards and lot areas and coverage of lots:
   A.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than thirty feet
(30').
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   On interior lots, there shall be a side yard on each side of the
main building. Each such side yard shall be ten percent (10%) of the width of
the lot, but in no instance shall it be necessary to have a side yard of more
than ten feet (10') on each side.
         b.   On corner lots, the side yard requirements shall be the same as
for interior lots; except, that there shall be maintained a side yard of not
less than twenty feet (20') from the side adjacent to the street which
intersects the street upon which the building or structure maintains frontage,
and except in the case of a reversed corner lot, there shall be maintained a
setback from the side street of not less than fifty percent (50%) of the front
yard required on the lots in the rear of such corner lots, but such setback
need not exceed fifteen feet (15'). No accessory building on a reversed corner
lot shall project beyond the front yard required on the adjacent lot to the
rear, nor be located nearer than five feet (5') to the side lot line of said
adjacent lot.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having an average depth of not
less than twenty five feet (25').
      4.   Accessory Building Encroachments: Accessory buildings shall not
encroach upon the front yard. They may encroach upon the side yards, provided
no buildings are closer to the lot lines than six feet (6'), and provided
further, that on a corner lot, accessory buildings shall not encroach upon the
front or side yards adjacent to the abutting streets.
   B.   Lot Coverage: No building with its accessory buildings shall occupy in
excess of thirty percent (30%) of the area of the lot.
   C.   Lot Area: Every dwelling hereafter erected or structurally altered
shall be on a lot having an area of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet and width at the front building line of not less than seventy five feet
(75'). (Ord., 5-13-1968)
ARTICLE B. R-2 MULTI-FAMILY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-6B-1: Permitted Uses
9-6B-2: Building Height
9-6B-3: Yards And Lots
9-6B-4: Courts
9-6B-1: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the R-2 multi-family district are:
Any use permitted in the R-1 single-family district, including special uses,
subject to the provisions of chapter 2, article B of this title.
Boarding or lodging houses.
Multiple dwellings and apartments.
Required off street parking.
Row dwellings containing three (3) or more family units.
Signs, subject to chapter 11 of this title.
Two-family dwelling structures.
Zero lot line duplexes. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. Ord., 6-27-1994)
9-6B-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected, altered or enlarged to
exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories nor to exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-6B-3: YARDS AND LOTS:
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected and no building or
structure shall hereafter be enlarged which would, when erected, conflict with,
or when enlarged or altered, would further conflict with the following
requirements for yards and lot areas and coverage of lots:
   A.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than twenty feet
(20').
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   On interior lots, there shall be a side yard on each side of the
main building. Each such side yard shall be ten percent (10%) of the width of
the lot, but in no instance shall it be necessary to have a side yard of more
than ten feet (10') on each side.
         b.   On corner lots, the side yard on the intersecting street side
shall not be less than ten feet (10'), except in the case of a reversed corner
lot, where there shall be a side yard on the street side of the corner lot of
not less than fifty percent (50%) of the front yard required in the lots in the
rear of such corner lot. No accessory building on said reversed corner lot
shall project beyond the front yard line required on the adjacent lot in the
rear, nor be located nearer than five feet (5') to the side lot line of such
adjacent lot.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty five
feet (25') for interior lots, nor less than fifteen feet (15') for corner lots.
      4.   Accessory Building Encroachments: The same regulations shall apply
as required in the R-1 district.
   B.   Lot Coverage: Not more than thirty five percent (35%) of the area of a
lot may be covered by buildings or structures.
   C.   Lot Area: No building shall hereafter be erected or structurally
altered on any lot less than fifty feet (50') in width nor less than seven
thousand (7,000) square feet in area; except, that a single-family dwelling may
be erected on any lot of smaller area and less width which has been duly
recorded prior to the effective date hereof if it was then and still remains
separately owned from adjoining lots on either side. Every residential building
hereafter erected or structurally altered for use other than for a single-
family dwelling shall provide a lot area per dwelling unit or, where indicated,
per sleeping room, as follows:
 
Boarding and lodging houses,        500 square feet per sleeping room
orphanages, nursing or rest homes
                                    3,500 square feet per dwelling unit,
                                    provided a 1 bedroom dwelling unit shall
Multiple dwelling, apartment or row require only 2,000 square feet per
dwelling of more than 2 units       dwelling unit and an efficiency unit
                                    shall require only 1,500 square feet per
                                    dwelling unit
Two-family dwelling                 3,500 square feet per dwelling unit
 
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
   D.   Zero Lot Line Duplexes:
      1.   For zero lot line duplexes, only one side yard of ten feet (10')
need be provided, so that a building is permitted with a ten foot (10') side
yard on one side, with the side of the building on the lot line of the other
side. On a corner lot, there shall be two (2) front yards of not less than
twenty feet (20') facing each of the streets. No part of any building shall
project onto any neighboring lot unless an easement permitting the same has
been duly executed and recorded by the owner of the neighboring lot.
      2.   Two (2) buildings on neighboring lots may be built touching each
other with party walls or adjacent walls; provided, that such walls shall
comply with any applicable provisions of the city building ordinances relating
to walls between condominiums and apartments. No two (2) buildings shall be
built touching each other unless the owners of each of the two (2) lots
involved sign an agreement which assures access for maintenance and provides
for maintenance of any party wall and roof. (Ord., 6-27-1994)
9-6B-4: COURTS:
No inner court or courts completely surrounded on all sides by a building shall
be permitted. Outer courts are permitted, provided the depth of the court is no
greater than the width of the court. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
CHAPTER 7
B COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-7-1: Permitted Uses
9-7-2: Building Height
9-7-3: Yards
9-7-4: Standards
9-7-1: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the B commercial district are:
Agricultural implement sales and service shops.
Air conditioning and heating sales and service.
Auction rooms.
Automobile sales and service shops.
Automobile service stations.
Bakeries, where all goods are sold on the premises at retail.
Banks.
Barbershops and beauty shops.
Battery and tire service stations.
Beverage distributors, but not including bottling plants.
Billiard and pool rooms.
Bookbinding.
Books and stationery stores.
Bowling alleys and skating rinks.
Business, music, dance or commercial schools.
Catering establishments.
Clubs, lodges or fraternal organizations.
Dance halls.
Drugstores.
Dry cleaners pick up station and facilities for cleaning not more than one
thousand (1,000) pounds of dry goods per day and using nonflammable cleaning
agents.
Electrical appliance shops.
Employment agencies.
Expressing, baggage, and transfer delivery service.
Florist shops and greenhouses for retail trade only.
Garages or lots, public or private, for storage of private automobiles,
passenger automobiles, trucks, or buses.
Grocery, fruit or vegetable stores.
Hardware stores.
Laboratories.
Launderettes, laundromats and laundries.
Manufacturing or processing which is clearly incidental to use is permitted.
Such manufacturing or processing is limited to that which employs not more than
ten (10) persons in the manufacturing or processing.
Marine sales and service.
Meat markets or poultry stores, if no slaughtering or stripping is involved.
Medical clinics.
Motels and hotels.
Offices.
Package liquor stores.
Painting and decorating shops.
Pet shops.
Plumbing, heating, and roofing supply and workshops.
Printing, publishing, and issuing of newspapers, periodicals, books and other
reading matter.
Printing shops.
Radio broadcasting stations.
Radio, television sales and service.
Required off street parking.
Restaurants, including the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Retail stores and services, department, furniture and home appliance stores.
Shoe repair shops.
Signs, subject to chapter 11 of this title.
Special uses, subject to the conditions of chapter 2, article B of this title.
Tailor and dressmaking shops, not employing more than five (5) people.
Taverns.
Taxi service stations.
Telegraph service stations.
Temporary buildings incidental only to construction of a permitted use.
Theaters.
Tourist homes.
Trailer sales.
Undertaking establishments.
Used car lots.
Wholesale establishments.
Uses customarily incidental to any of the above uses and accessory buildings
when located on the same lot. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. Ord., 11-8-1982)
9-7-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall hereafter be erected so as to exceed twenty five feet (25')
in height; except, that additions to existing buildings may be extended not to
exceed the height of the existing principal building. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-7-3: YARDS:
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected and no building or
structure shall hereafter be enlarged which would, when erected, conflict with
or, when enlarged or altered, further conflict with the following requirements
for yards: (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. 2015 Code)
   A.   Front Yard: All new structures permitted in this district shall be set
back from the front street line a distance sufficient to provide a sidewalk not
less than ten feet (10') wide.
   B.   Side Yards: Where a lot is used for any of the purposes permitted in
this district and is located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets,
and where an R district adjoins the rear of said lot, the side yard on the side
of the lot adjacent to the street shall not be less than ten feet (10') in
width; except, that the building width of the lot shall not be reduced to less
than twenty feet (20'). In all other cases, a side yard is not required except
on the side of a lot adjoining a dwelling district, in which case, there shall
be a side yard of not less than five feet (5').
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
ten feet (10') when abutting upon a public alley and not less than twenty feet
(20') when no dedicated alley or public way exists at the rear of the lot.
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-7-4: STANDARDS:
All buildings, structures and uses in the B commercial district shall comply
with the following regulations: (Ord., 5-13-1968)
   A.   No building shall be used for residential purposes. (Ord., 5-13-1968;
amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   All operation and production activities shall be conducted or
maintained wholly inside an enclosed building. Where open storage is used, the
area should be effectively screened by a decorative solid wall or fence, or
dense evergreen planting, of sufficient height to block the view of the storage
area from any park or residential district. No open storage shall be permitted
within sixty feet (60') of an adjoining residential district or public park.
   C.   No noise from the operations (other than that emanating from vehicular
traffic), either continuous or intermittent, shall be detectable at the
boundary line of any residential district.
   D.   No toxic matter, noxious matter, smoke or gas and no odorous or
particulate matter detectable beyond the lot lines shall be emitted.
   E.   No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines.
   F.   No glare or heat shall be detectable beyond the lot lines.
   G.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid
casting direct light upon any residential district or into public streets or
parks.
   H.   No fuel except electricity, oil or gas shall be used.
   I.   The storage or use of chemicals, either solid, liquid or gas, shall be
subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The storage, utilization or manufacture of materials or products
ranging from incombustible to moderate burning is permitted.
      2.   The storage, utilization or manufacture of materials ranging from
free to active burning is permitted, provided the following condition is met:
Said materials or products shall be stored, utilized or manufactured within
completely enclosed buildings having incombustible exterior walls and protected
throughout by an automatic fire extinguishing system.
      3.   The storage, utilization or manufacture of flammable materials which
produce explosive vapors or gases is prohibited; except, that storage of
gasoline and fuel oil for use solely for heating or operation of vehicles in
connection with the principal use is permitted, provided storage is underground
and does not exceed a capacity of one thousand (1,000) gallons. Automobile
service stations are not subject to the terms of this subsection I3.
   J.   No raw materials shall be processed into any of the following basic
products: metals of any kind, gases, plastics, textiles, paper and leather.
   K.   All premises shall be furnished with all weather surface walks, and
except for parking areas, grounds shall be planted and landscaped. (Ord., 5-13-
1968)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-8A-1: Permitted Uses
9-8A-2: Building Height
9-8A-3: Bulk Requirements
9-8A-4: Parking Regulations
9-8A-5: Standards
9-8A-1: PERMITTED USES:
Any building or premises within the light industrial district shall be used
only for the following purposes:
Compounding, processing, and blending of chemical products.
General, administrative, research data processing offices.
Machine shops and metal products manufacture, and tool and die shops.
Processing and assembling of lightweight products.
Required off street parking.
Research laboratories.
Signs, subject to chapter 11 of this title.
Special uses, subject to the provisions of chapter 2, article B of this title.
Storage warehouses for a specific business enterprise, but not including
commercial storage for hire.
Accessory buildings incidental to the foregoing. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-8A-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed fifty feet (50') in
height. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-8A-3: BULK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Setback: No building, or any part thereof, shall be hereafter
erected, altered, or relocated so that average part of said building shall be
less than forty seven feet (47') from the centerline of an established thirty
three foot (33') right of way line of any type of roadway.
   B.   Yards: Each principal building shall have a side yard on each side, the
total width of both side yards to be not less than forty feet (40'), with a
minimum side yard of fifteen feet (15'). Each building shall have a rear yard
of not less than twenty five feet (25') in depth.
   C.   Lot Coverage: No building in the I-1 light industrial district, which,
taken together in area with its accessory building, shall occupy more than
fifty five percent (55%) of the lot or tract. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-8A-4: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Each light industrial district site shall provide a parking area containing not
less than one hundred (100) square feet of space for each employee. If the
location of the site shall be on a thirty three foot (33') improved roadway, as
provided in this district, the provisions in regard to such roadway and
establishment of easements shall apply. If the site shall front upon any other
permitted roadway, local regulations as to parking shall control in such areas.
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-8A-5: STANDARDS:
All buildings, structures, and uses in the light industrial district shall
comply with the following regulations:
   A.   No building shall be used for residential purposes.
   B.   No retail sales or services shall be permitted, except as incidental or
accessory to a principal and permitted use.
   C.   All operations, activities and storage shall be conducted or maintained
wholly inside enclosed buildings.
   D.   No noise from the operations (other than that emanating from vehicular
traffic), either continuous or intermittent, shall be detectable at the
boundary line of any residential district.
   E.   No toxic matter, noxious matter, smoke or gas, and no odorous or
particulate matter detectable beyond the lot lines shall be emitted.
   F.   No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines.
   G.   No glare or heat shall be detectable beyond the lot lines.
   H.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid
casting direct light upon any residential district or into public streets or
parks.
   I.   No fuel except electricity, oil, or gas shall be used.
   J.   The storage or use of chemicals, either solid, liquid or gas, shall be
subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of materials or products
ranging from incombustible to moderate burning is permitted.
      2.   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of materials or products
ranging from free to active burning is permitted, provided the following
condition is met: Said materials or products shall be stored, utilized or
manufactured within completely enclosed buildings having incombustible exterior
walls and protected throughout by an automatic fire extinguishing system.
      3.   The manufacture of flammable materials which produce explosive
vapors or gases is prohibited.
   K.   No raw materials shall be processed into any of the following basic
products: metals of any kind, glass, plastics, textiles, leather, or paper.
   L.   All premises shall be furnished with all weather surface walks, and
except for parking areas, grounds shall be planted and landscaped. (Ord., 5-13-
1968)
ARTICLE B. I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-8B-1: Purpose
9-8B-2: Permitted Uses
9-8B-3: Building Height
9-8B-4: Bulk Requirements
9-8B-5: Parking Regulations
9-8B-6: Standards
9-8B-1: PURPOSE:
The heavy industrial district is designed primarily to permit administrative,
industrial, and other related activities which do not in any way detract from
the character of the city and which are not permitted in the light industrial
district, and to restrict such activities to an area of low lying terrain
located adjacent to heavily traveled transportation routes but in proximity to
residential areas. All of the restrictions in this article are imposed to
protect and foster the aforementioned residential character of the city. (Ord.,
5-13-1968)
9-8B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses within the I-2 heavy industrial district are:
Auto dismantling and storage of junk.
Building material and fuel yards.
Bulk oil and gasoline storage.
Contractor plant, including storage yards.
Feed, flour and grain storage.
Fertilizer processing and manufacturing plants.
Other industrial and manufacturing uses meeting all requirements of this
article and all applicable ordinances.
Rubber and other manufacturing plants.
Special uses, subject to the provisions of chapter 2, article B of this title.
Warehouse and storage plants. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-8B-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed one hundred feet
(100') in height. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-8B-4: BULK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Size: No building site shall be less than one acre overall.
   B.   Building Setback: No building, or any part thereof, shall be hereafter
erected, altered, or relocated so that any part of said building shall be less
than fifty seven feet (57') from the centerline of an established thirty three
foot (33') right of way, as measured from back of curb to back of curb, or
forty feet (40') from the right of way line of any other type of roadway.
   C.   Yards: Each principal building shall have a side yard on each side, the
total width of both side yards to be not less than fifty feet (50'), with a
minimum side yard on either side of fifteen feet (15'). Each principal building
shall have a rear yard of not less than twenty five feet (25') in depth.
   D.   Street Frontage: Each building site shall have a minimum street
frontage of one hundred fifty feet (150').
   E.   Lot Coverage: No building which, taken together in area with its
accessory buildings, shall occupy more than fifty five percent (55%) of the lot
or tract provided. Where a tract is improved with an existing building or
structure, the structure or building shall not be deemed to be nonconforming
unless it occupies in excess of seventy five percent (75%) of the tract, and
any such existing structure or building may be enlarged and additional
buildings may be erected, provided such addition shall not, when added to the
existing building or structure, occupy more than seventy five percent (75%) of
the tract. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-8B-5: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Each heavy industrial district site shall provide a parking area which shall
contain not less than one hundred (100) square feet of space for each employee.
If the location of the site shall be on a thirty three foot (33') improved
roadway, as provided in this district, easements shall apply. If the site shall
front upon any other permitted roadway, local regulations as to parking shall
control in such areas. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-8B-6: STANDARDS:
All buildings, structures and uses in the heavy industrial district shall
comply with the following regulations:
   A.   No building shall be used for residential purposes.
   B.   No retail sales or services shall be permitted, except as incidental to
a principal and permitted use.
   C.   No noise from the operations (other than that emanating from vehicular
traffic), either continuous or intermittent, shall be detectable at the
boundary line of any residential district.
   D.   No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines.
   E.   No glare or heat shall be detectable beyond the lot lines.
   F.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid
casting direct light upon any residential district or into public streets or
parks.
   G.   The storage or use of chemicals, either solid, liquid or gas, shall be
subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The storage, utilization or manufacture of materials or products
ranging from incombustible to moderate burning is permitted.
      2.   The storage, utilization or manufacture of materials ranging from
free to active burning and flammable materials which produce explosive vapors
or gases is permitted, provided the following condition is met: Said materials
or products shall be stored, utilized or manufactured within completely
enclosed buildings having incombustible exterior walls and protected throughout
by an automatic fire extinguishing system, all in accordance with accepted best
practices of the National Board Of Fire Underwriters.
   H.   All premises shall be furnished with all weather surface walks, and
except for parking areas, grounds shall be planted and landscaped. (Ord., 5-13-
1968)
   I.   All operation and production activities shall be conducted or
maintained wholly inside an enclosed building. Where open storage is used, the
area should be effectively screened from view by a decorative solid wall or
fence, or dense evergreen planting of sufficient height to block the view of
the storage area from any public street, public park or residential district.
(Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 9
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Developments Permitted; General Conditions
9-9-2: Permitted Uses
9-9-3: Intensity Of Use
9-9-4: Variations
9-9-5: Determination Of Number Of Lots
9-9-6: Open Space And Common Areas
9-9-1: DEVELOPMENTS PERMITTED; GENERAL CONDITIONS:
The city council may authorize, by ordinance, after a public hearing and a
report by the zoning board of appeals held and made in the manner provided for
amendments in this title, the location and development in the R-1 and R-
2 residential districts of a planned residential development of single- family
dwellings on not less than fifteen (15) acres of land; and provided, that every
development under this chapter shall be consistent with the purpose and intent
of this title, and shall be laid out and developed as a unit in accordance with
an integrated overall design, as approved and authorized by the city council.
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-9-2: PERMITTED USES:
The buildings shall be used only for single-family dwellings and permitted
accessory uses, such as garages, storage space, and project activities. (Ord.,
5-13-1968)
9-9-3: INTENSITY OF USE:
The specific requirements of this title for intensity of land use for the
designated residential use district in which the development is located shall
be maintained. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-9-4: VARIATIONS:
   A.   All other sections of this title may, by specific mention, be varied in
whole or in part for any planned residential development under the terms of
this chapter.
   B.   However, in no case shall the allowable lot area, width or yard
requirements in the residential use district be reduced to less than the
corresponding requirements in the next less restricted residential use
district, but in no case less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   C.   Where a reduction of lot area is allowed within the limits above, an
area equal in aggregate area to not less than the sum of such area reduction in
all lots shall be either set aside as common land to be used by owners of homes
in the development, or may be added to the public lands, provided dedication is
accepted by the city. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-9-5: DETERMINATION OF NUMBER OF LOTS:
In determining the total number of lots which may be created under the terms of
this chapter in accordance with the intensity of use provided by the designated
use district, the land available for development (which shall not include any
easement for utilities or access, or provision for floodwaters) shall be
reduced by twenty percent (20%), and the remainder shall be divided by the
minimum lot area of the designated use district in which the development is
located. The resulting figure, reduced to the closest smaller whole number,
shall be the greatest number of lots developable under the terms of this
chapter. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-9-6: OPEN SPACE AND COMMON AREAS:
   A.   Each proposed lot must have at least fifteen percent (15%) of its
periphery bounded by the common open area or dedicated lands. Lots may face
each other across streets, but may not back up to each other. The average
minimum width of any continuous open space shall be not less than fifty feet
(50'). All open spaces shall be directly accessible to a public street or a
public area having access to a public street. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
   B.   In addition, the arrangement and use of the common land or land to be
dedicated to the city and the method of maintenance of any common land shall be
subject to approval by the city council before the provisions of this section
apply. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 10
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
9-10-1: Off Street Parking Regulations
9-10-1-1: Design And Development Requirements
9-10-1-2: Joint Use Of Facilities
9-10-1-3: Parking Lot In Adjoining District
9-10-1-4: Parking Recreational Vehicles, Semitrucks And Trailers
9-10-1-5: Number Of Spaces Required
9-10-2: Off Street Loading Facilities
9-10-1: OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS:
9-10-1-1: DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Plat Required: A plan of parking facilities shall accompany each
application for a building permit or certificate of compliance. The completion
of the improvements for parking according to such plan shall be a requisite for
the validity of the permit or certificate.
   B.   General Requirements:
      1.   For the purpose of this section
9-10-1, one hundred eighty (180) square feet of lot or floor area which has a
means of ingress or egress from an alley or street shall be deemed parking
space for one vehicle.
      2.   Such space shall not occupy any part of any required front yard but,
where open, may be included as part of a required open space for a side or rear
yard, as provided in the district regulations.
      3.   On corner or through lots, a parking space may not be included as
part of required yards lying adjacent to either street.
   C.   Nonresidential Uses:
      1.   Parking spaces and access driveways required in nonresidential
districts, when used in compliance with the provisions of this title, shall be
paved or otherwise surfaced with an all weather, dustproof material.
      2.   Parking areas serving nonresidential uses of property shall be hard
surfaced and graded so as to drain off all surface water to storm sewer inlets.
      3.   That part of the driveway connecting from the curb line to the
property line shall be paved with concrete or asphalt materials to the
satisfaction of the city.
      4.   When such parking areas or lots abut upon adjacent residential
properties, there shall be provided a wall or solid screen planting of
appropriate shrubs to a height of not less than four feet (4') along the entire
boundary common to both the residential and parking areas. Walls or solid
screen plantings to a height of not less than four feet (4') shall also be
placed along the street line where a parking lot abuts upon a street which
provides access to adjacent residential properties.
      5.   Lights used to illuminate such parking lots shall be so arranged as
to reflect lighting away from the adjoining premises in the residential
district. Such parking spaces shall be reserved for the sole use of the
occupants of the building or lots, their customers and the visitors thereto.
      6.   Churches, theaters, stadiums, auditoriums and other places of
assembly may make arrangements for joint use of parking spaces as specified in
section
9-10-1-2 of this chapter. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-10-1-2: JOINT USE OF FACILITIES:
The joint use of parking facilities may be permitted in cases where major
parking demands occur on different days of the week or during different hours;
provided, that: a) parking spaces will be available for each use in accordance
with the standards of this section
9-10-1; and b) the owners agree in writing and record that any subsequent sale
or division of the property or change in use thereof will not interfere with
the joint use of the parking facilities. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-10-1-3: PARKING LOT IN ADJOINING DISTRICT:
The city council may authorize a special permit to allow a parking lot in an
adjacent zoning district for the purpose of meeting the requirements of this
section
9-10-1, subject to the following limitations:
   A.   Public notice must be given and a public hearing held by the zoning
board of appeals on the request for a special permit in the same manner in
which said notice is given and such hearing is held on a request for a
variance.
   B.   Notice must be given by registered mail to all owners of property
living within three hundred feet (300') of the land for which the special
permit is sought.
   C.   A special permit shall not be granted unless the application shows and
warrants that in the proposed development of the parking area, front and side
yards will be met and maintained, and that the area will be improved as
required in this section
9-10-1. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-10-1-4: PARKING RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, SEMITRUCKS AND TRAILERS:
Motor homes, recreational vehicles, semitrucks, boats and snowmobiles, and
trailers for hauling same, may be parked in side and rear yards only, except
for temporary loading or unloading and not to exceed seven (7) days in any six
(6) month period. (Ord., 10-11-1983)
9-10-1-5: NUMBER OF SPACES REQUIRED:
   A.   In any district, except as noted herein, every building built,
structurally altered, enlarged or increased in capacity, and every land use
initiated subsequent to the effective date hereof, shall be provided with
minimum off street parking facilities as follows: (Ord., 5-13-1968)
Type Of Use Parking Space Required
Type Of Use                             Parking Space Required
                                        1 for each 10 seats or bench seating
                                        spaces, based upon maximum seating
                                        capacity. For the purpose of this type
                                        of use, parking spaces already provided
                                        to meet off street parking requirements
                                        for stores, office buildings and
                                        industrial establishments, or off
Churches, auditoriums, gymnasiums,      street parking facilities provided by
stadiums, theaters and other places of  the city, lying within 300 feet of the
public or private assembly with fixed   place of public assembly, as measured
seats                                   along lines of public access, and that
                                        are not normally in use between the
                                        hours of 6:00 P.M. and 12:00 midnight,
                                        and are made available for other
                                        parking, may be used to meet up to 75
                                        percent of the total requirements of
                                        parking space for places of public
                                        assembly
Dance halls, bowling alleys and private 1 for each 200 square feet of floor
clubs                                   area, to be provided on the premises or
                                        within 300 feet of the entrance
Funeral homes                           15 on the premises, plus 5 for each
                                        area which can be used as a parlor
Hospitals                               1 for each 3 hospital beds
                                        5 and, in addition, 1 for each 2
                                        persons employed at any one time or
Manufacturing and nonretail commercial  shift. Parking spaces shall be on the
establishments                          same premises or at other off street
                                        locations within 1,000 feet of the
                                        entrance to the principal building
One-family dwellings and multiple-      1 for each dwelling unit
family dwellings
                                        1 for each 200 square feet of store
                                        space, to be provided on the premises
                                        or within 300 feet of the entrances, or
                                        in conjunction with a plan of parking
Stores and other retail establishments  approved by the city council, and off
where such uses are permitted           the street; except, that restaurants or
                                        establishments whose primary use is to
                                        serve meals and refreshments to patrons
                                        shall provide 1 space for each 100
                                        square feet of floor space in the
                                        building
Tourist courts, motels, hotels, rooming 1 for each guest sleeping room
houses, and fraternal homes
                                        1 for each transient sleeping room
Tourist homes                           offered for tourist accommodation in
                                        addition to parking spaces required for
                                        permanent residents of the building
Wholesale and distributing              1 for each 2 employees
establishments in telephone exchanges
 
(Ord., 5-13-1968; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Parking spaces required under this section shall be increased or
reduced at a time when the capacity or use of a building is changed in such a
manner that a new use or capacity would require. Such reductions may not be
below the standards set forth in this section
 9-10-1.
   C.   Loading or unloading areas shall not be considered as parking areas.
(Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-10-2: OFF STREET LOADING FACILITIES:
On the same lot with every building or part thereof erected after the effective
date hereof, to be used for other than exclusive dwelling purposes, or as an
accessory use for dwelling purposes, there shall be provided on the lot
adequate space for motor vehicles to load and unload in order to avoid
interference with the public use of streets or alleys. Such space, unless
otherwise adequately provided, shall include a ten foot by twenty five foot
(10' x 25') loading space, with fifteen feet (15') height clearance, and a
minimum of one such space shall be provided for each structure in the I-1 light
industrial district and I-2 heavy industrial district. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
CHAPTER 11
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-11-1: Scope
9-11-2: Signs In R Districts
9-11-3: Signs In B Districts
9-11-4: Signs In I Districts
9-11-5: Additional Regulations In B And I Districts
9-11-1: SCOPE:
Any publicly displayed sign, symbol or notice on a premises to advertise the
business there transacted, or the name of a person or firm conducting said
business on premises or directing to some other locale, shall be regulated as
provided in this chapter. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-11-2: SIGNS IN R DISTRICTS:
In R districts, the following signs shall be permitted:
   A.   For each dwelling unit, one unlighted nameplate not exceeding one
square foot in area, indicating the name of the occupant.
   B.   For a structure other than a dwelling unit, one identification sign not
exceeding ten (10) square feet, except a church bulletin board which will not
exceed eighteen (18) square feet.
   C.   For purpose of orientation, directional signs, when established by the
city, not exceeding two (2) square feet. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-11-3: SIGNS IN B DISTRICTS:
In the B districts, the following signs shall be permitted:
   A.   Two (2) signs per building for each business occupying that building.
   B.   Directional signs permitted as in R districts.
   C.   One sign, not attached to the building, the highest point of which
shall not be more than twenty five feet (25') above ground and the area of
which shall not exceed twenty five (25) square feet, provided all such signs
shall be set back not less than twenty five feet (25') from the front lot line,
and no sign so erected shall be related to a business other than that conducted
on the premises. (Subject to use of signs as permitted in subsection
 9-11-5A of this chapter.) (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-11-4: SIGNS IN I DISTRICTS:
In the I districts, the following signs shall be permitted:
   A.   One sign identifying the building or building complex.
   B.   Directional signs permitted as in R districts. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-11-5: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS IN B AND I DISTRICTS:
The following regulations shall apply to the B and I districts:
   A.   No sign shall be located on any lot prior to the commencement of
construction of a principal building on said lot; except, that one sign not
exceeding forty (40) square feet in area may be located on a vacant lot solely
for the purpose of advertising the premises on which the sign is located for
sale or rent, and not more than two (2) signs stating the names of the
architect or contractor may be located on the premises only during
construction.
   B.   Except as provided in subsection A of this section, no sign shall
relate to a business other than that conducted on the premises.
   C.   The total area of all signs on any lot, including all exposed sides,
shall not exceed three (3) times the number of linear feet of frontage of the
principal building located on the lot. A principal building on a building
corner lot shall be deemed to have a frontage equal to the length of those
sides of such building which abut a street.
   D.   No sign shall extend beyond the peak of the roofline of the building to
which it is attached.
   E.   All signs shall be attached to the principal building; except, that
there shall be permitted in the I districts not more than three (3) directional
signs, or signs showing only the name of the business, none of which shall
exceed twelve feet (12') in height from the ground, and the aggregate area of
all such signs shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet.
   F.   No canopies shall be constructed with a clearance of less than eight
feet (8'). Interior illuminated signs are permitted under such canopies,
provided they shall be installed or hung in such a manner as to permit a
minimum clearance of seven feet (7') from the walkway. No sign installed under
a canopy shall be of the flashing or blinking type. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
CHAPTER 12
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
9-12-1: Continuance Of Nonconforming Buildings And Uses
9-12-2: Expansion Of Use
9-12-3: Discontinuance, Change Of Use
9-12-4: Destruction Or Damage To Buildings; Repairs
9-12-5: Records Kept
9-12-1: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES:
Any building or structure, or use of any building or structure or tract of
land, lawfully existing or under construction at the effective date hereof or
of a later amendment, but which does not conform with the requirements of this
title, shall be known as a nonconforming use and may remain, and the use then
being made thereof may be continued. However, any enlargement, alteration,
relocation or change in use of such a building, structure or tract of land can
be continued only as provided in this chapter. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-12-2: EXPANSION OF USE:
   A.   A nonconforming use occupying a part of a building or structure may be
extended throughout that part of the building or structure originally designed
for such use, or throughout the entire building or structure if of uniform
design, but in no case shall an addition be made which will provide for the
expansion of the nonconforming use.
   B.   A nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded beyond the area
actually so used at the effective date hereof or of a later amendment creating
the nonconforming use. (Ord., 5-13-1968)
9-12-3: DISCONTINUANCE, CHANGE OF USE:
   A.   Discontinuance Of Use: Any nonconforming use of a building, structure,
or land which is discontinued for a period of six (6) months or more shall not
be continued again, and any further use thereof shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this title.
   B.   Change Of Use: A nonconforming use may not be changed except to a
conforming use. A building which conforms as to use but does not conform as to
height, lot area or yards may be altered or enlarged, provided the alteration
or enlargement does not itself encroach or further encroach upon a required
yard nor does not exceed or further exceed the maximum height requirement. No
such additions or enlargement shall reduce the lot area per dwelling unit below
the minimum required for each multiple- and two-family dwelling unit. (Ord., 5-
13-1968)
9-12-4: DESTRUCTION OR DAMAGE TO BUILDINGS; REPAIRS:
   A.   Any building or structure devoted to a nonconforming use which may be
destroyed or damaged by fire, or otherwise, to the extent of fifty percent
(50%) or more of its full assessed value shall not be repaired or rebuilt, nor
shall another building or structure be erected on the premises except in
conformity with the provisions of this title.
   B.   So long as a building or structure is used or is eligible for use in a
nonconforming manner, only ordinary repairs and maintenance, including
replacement of the roof covering, shall be permitted. In no case shall such
repairs include structural alterations, veneering of the outer walls, or other
work which will extend appreciably the normal life of the building. (Ord., 5-
13-1968)
9-12-5: RECORDS KEPT:
The building commissioner shall make and keep a record, including photographs,
of all buildings, structures, and land uses which do not conform to the use
regulations of the district in which they are located. (Ord., 5-13-1968; amd.
2015 Code)
CHAPTER 13
HOME RENOVATION PROGRAM
(Rep. by Ord. 2021-11-8, 11-8-2021)
 
CHAPTER 14
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-14-1: Permitted As Special Use
9-14-2: Defined
9-14-3: Application
9-14-4: Minimum Requirements
9-14-5: Decommissioning Plan
9-14-6: Variances
9-14-7: Adverse Impacts
9-14-8: Conformance To Application
9-14-1: PERMITTED AS SPECIAL USE:
Wind energy conversion systems shall be permitted (i) in any zoning district
within the corporate limits of the city and (ii) within the one and a half
(1.5) mile radius surrounding the corporate limits of the city (pursuant to
section 11-26-13 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-26- 13)) only
upon approval by the city council after a hearing before the city zoning board
as set forth in article B, special uses, of chapter 2, administration and
enforcement, of title 9, zoning regulations, of the city code. (Ord. 2025-6, 6-
9-2025)
9-14-2: DEFINED:
For purposes of this chapter 14, "wind energy conversion system" shall mean any
wind farm, electric-generating wind device or other system by which wind energy
is converted to electricity. (Ord. 2025-6, 6-9-2025)
9-14-3: APPLICATION:
Applications for approval of a wind energy conversion system shall include the
name, address, telephone number, email address and signature of the applicant
(and the property owner, if other than the applicant), the payment of the
application fee in an amount determined from lime to time by the city council
and the following information, all in such detail as requested by the city:
   A.   Legal description of the property proposed for the wind energy
conversion system;
   B.   Scaled site plan, showing, at a minimum, the boundaries of the property
upon which the wind energy conversion system is to be located, the location of
all wind energy conversion system structures and the location of all
aboveground utility lines or other utility equipment;
   C.   Description of the wind energy conversion system and related
improvements including, without limitation, its manufacturer and type,
approximate name plate generating capacity, height of towers, diameter of
rotors and description of applicant and its wind energy conversion system
experience;
   D.   Documentation of compliance with all applicable industry standards, all
applicable laws and regulations, and the provisions of this section and any
other applicable provisions of the city code;
   E.   Evidence that no adverse impacts, as described in section
9-14-6 below, are likely to occur as a result of the proposed wind energy
conversion system project;
   F.   Decommissioning plan provided; and
   G.   Such other information as the city shall request. (Ord. 2025-6, 6-9-
2025)
9-14-4: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
Any wind energy conversion system shall comply with the following minimum
requirements, unless a variance is granted pursuant to section
9-14-5 below:
   A.   Setbacks The minimum distance between any wind energy conversion system
turbine and all property lines, overhead utility or transmission lines or other
utility equipment, public rights of way and other wind energy conversion system
turbines shall be I. I times the height of the turbine (measured from the
established grade at the base of the tower to the highest point on the turbine
rotor plane);
   B.   Rotor to ground height the minimum distance between the ground,
measured from the established grade at the base of the turbine, and any part of
the rotor blade system shall be twenty-five (25) feet;
   C.   Anti-climbing devices - wind energy conversion system turbines shall
not be climbable up to a height of fifteen (15) feet from established grade;
   D.   Noise - Noise from a wind energy conversion system shall not exceed
sixty (60) decibels al any point on the boundary of the property;
   E.   Signs - No signs other than "high voltage" or other warning signs may
be posted on a wind energy conversion system turbine;
   F.   Color- All wind energy conversion system equipment shall be made of
non-reflective material and shall be white or light gray in color;
   G.   Controls and brakes all wind energy conversion system turbines shall be
equipped with manual or automatic controls or mechanical brakes to limit
rotation of blades to a speed below the designed limits of the wind energy
conversion system. For purposes of this section, "manual and automatic
controls" mean controls which give protection to power grids and limit rotation
of the wind energy conversion system blades to below the designed limits of the
wind energy conversion system. The professional engineer or authorized factory
representative must certify that the rotor and overspeed control design and
fabrication conform to good engineering practices. No changes or alterations
from certified design shall be permitted unless accompanies by a professional
engineer's or the authorized factory- representative's statement of
certification;
   H.   Lighting - Lighting above ground level shall be permitted only to the
extent required by the federal aviation administration;
   I.   Industry standards - All wind energy conversion systems shall conform
to all applicable industry standards including without limitation those of the
american national standards institute and the american wind energy association.
Installation and operation of wind energy conversion systems shall conform to
the manufacturer's standards;
   J.   Compliance with laws - All wind energy conversion systems shall comply
with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations;
   K.   Wiring - All wiring associated with the wind energy conversion system
shall be underground;
The requirements set forth in this section
9-14-4 are intended to be minimum requirements, and this section shall not be
construed to prevent the city from imposing additional requirements for
approval, nor shall it be construed to require the city to approve any wind
energy conversion system when all of the minimum requirements are met. (Ord.
2025-6, 6-9-2025)
9-14-5: DECOMMISSIONING PLAN:
   A.   All applicants seeking approval of a wind energy conversion system
shall be required to have a decommissioning plan to ensure the wind energy
conversion system is properly removed upon the end of the project life or
facility abandonment. For purposes of this section, "facility- abandonment"
shall mean when no electricity is generated by the wind energy conversion
system for a consecutive period of two (2) years or when the owner and/or
operator of the wind energy conversion system has stated in writing to the city
that the owner and/or operator intends to abandon, vacate, or cease wind energy
creation operations indefinitely on a specified wind energy conversion system.
The decommissioning plan shall state how the wind energy conversion system will
be decommissioned. Decommissioning shall include: removal of all structures
(including wind energy conversion system equipment and fencing) and debris to a
depth of four (4) feel, restoration of the soil, and restoration of vegetation
within six (6) months of the end of project life or facility abandonment. The
owner shall restore the land to a condition reasonably similar to its condition
before the development of the wind energy conversion system, including
replacement of top soil, which may have been removed or eroded, and replacement
of trees. A decommissioning plan shall be submitted and approved prior to rhe
issuance of the building permit.
   B.   Financial Security. Appropriate means of financial security shall be
required as part of the decommissioning plan. The security shall be in the name
of the city for one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of
decommissioning. The estimated cost shall not include any projected salvage
value of the wind energy conversion system equipment and other used equipment.
The estimated cost shall be prepared by an Illinois licensed professional
engineer.
      1.   Security may be in the form of one of the following:
         a.   Irrevocable letter of credit;
         b.   Continuous surety bond;
         c.   Cash escrow account; or
         d.   Any other means deemed acceptable by the city.
   C.   Agreement. The decommissioning plan shall also include an agreement
between the applicant and the city which stales:
      1.   Financial security must remain valid through the life of the
project. An updated decommissioning plan including estimated costs prepared by
an Illinois licensed professional engineer and financial security must be
submitted to the city every four (4) years;
      2.   The city shall have access to the financial security funds for the
express purpose of completing decommissioning if decommissioning is not
completed by the owner within six (6) months of the end of project life or
facility abandonment;
      3.   The city is granted the right of entry onto the site, pursuant to
reasonable notice, to effect or complete decommissioning; and
      4.   The city is granted the right to seek injunctive relief to effect or
complete decommissioning, as well as the city's right to seek reimbursement
from owner or owner's successor for decommissioning costs which exceed the
financial security and to file a lien against any real estate owned by the
owner or owner's successor, or in which they have an interest, for the excess
amount, and to take all steps allowed by law to enforce said lien.
      5.   Release Of Financial Security. Financial security shall only be
released when the city determines, after inspection, that the conditions of the
decommissioning plan have been met. (Ord. 2025-6, 6-9-2025)
9-14-6: VARIANCES:
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an applicant may request a variance from any of
the provisions of this chapter 14. The variance request shall be made a part of
the original application. Permits for wind energy conversion systems shall be
granted by the city council by a simple majority, after the public hearing
described above, but variance requests shall require the affirmative vote of
two-thirds (2/3) of the city council after the public hearing described above.
(Ord. 2025-6, 6-9-2025)
9-14-7: ADVERSE IMPACTS:
The applicant shall be responsible to ensure that no adverse impact to the
environment or to other property owners in the area occurs as a result of the
proposed wind energy conversion system project. The applicant shall provide
evidence that no adverse impacts are likely to occur in its original
application, and. in the event that adverse impacts do occur, shall take all
steps necessary to eliminate such adverse impacts. In the event that adverse
impacts do occur, the wind energy conversion system shall not operate until the
adverse impacts are eliminated. For purposes of this article, adverse impacts
shall include, without limitation, interference with radio, television,
internet or telephone or other communication system reception, shadow flicker
and risks to local wildlife, habitat and migratory birds.
9-14-8: CONFORMANCE TO APPLICATION:
Upon approval of a wind energy conversion system as set forth in section
9-14-1 above, the wind energy conversion system shall be constructed in
accordance with the application to the city. Any modifications to the wind
energy conversion system, whether during or after initial construction, shall
require an amendment to the special use permit, which shall require the same
procedure as the initial issuance of the special use permit. (Ord. 2025-6, 6-9-
2025)
CHAPTER 15
SOLAR ENERGY EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
9-15-1: Definitions
9-15-2: Permitted
9-15-3: Application
9-15-4: Solar Private Facility
9-15-5: Solar Energy Generation Facility
9-15-6: Variances
9-15-7: Conformance To Application
9-15-8: Violation
9-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ACCESSORY: As applied to a building, structure or use. one which on the same
lot with, incidental to or subordinate to the main or principal structure.
   CONFORMING STRUCTURE: A conforming use is the use of a structure or land
that conforms to the permitted uses under the zoning classifications of a
particular use.
   DECOMMISSIONING PLAN: Prepared plan prior to installation of solar
collectors that ensures that facilities are properly removed after their useful
lite as described in section
9-15-5.6.
   EAVES: Section of roof that extend beyond exterior siding.
   GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR PRIVATE FACILITY: A solar private facility mounted on a
rack or pole that rests or is attached to the ground, and is not affixed to any
existing structure.
   NEC: National Electrical Code.
   RAKE: A rake on a roof is an inclined edge that stretches along the gable.
It runs from the eave up to the peak of the roof. Sometimes, this is called the
ridge.
   REFLECTORS: Reflectors are surfaces or devices designed to redirect sunlight
onto solar panels.
   RIDGE: A roof ridge is the highest point where two (2) roof planes meet.
   ROOF MOUNTED SOLAR PRIVATE FACILITY: A solar private facility mounted on a
rack that is fastened to or ballasted on a building roof.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR: A device that captures solar radiation for use as a source
of energy.
   SOLAR ENERGY: Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by solar collectors.
   SOLAR ENERGY EQUIPMENT: Items including but not limited to solar collectors,
lines, pumps, batteries, inverters, mounting brackets, framing, and/or
foundation used for or intended to be used for the collection and conversion of
solar radiation into energy suitable for use including, without limitation.
Solar private facilities and solar energy generation facilities.
   SOLAR ENERGY GENERATION FACILITY: A facility consisting of solar collectors
and supplementary' solar energy equipment used to produce electric power and is
either the stand alone use or one of the principal uses for the parcel of land
on which it is located. In a solar energy generation facility, the electric
power may be used onsite, but its primary purpose is to generate electric power
for offsite utility' bill credit, subscription sale, retail sale, or wholesale.
The term includes solar collectors and supplementary solar energy equipment
that is accessory to a residential or nonresidcntial use that covers more than
two (2) acres and is designed for onsite use by the owner or tenant of the
residential or nonresidcntial use to reduce payments to the utility company.
   SOLAR PANEL: A device for the direct conversion of solar energy into
electricity or heat.
   SOLAR PRIVATE FACILITY: Solar collectors and supplementary solar energy
equipment that is accessory to a residential or nonresidcntial use and covers
an area no more than two (2) acres. In no instance can a solar private facility
be the only use on a parcel. Solar private facilities are for onsite use by the
owner or tenant of the residential or nonresidcntial use only, io reduce
payments to the utility company, and not for sale of energy to any other party.
   SOLAR RAPID SHUTDOWN: Safety feature that allow for quick de-energization of
solar energy equipment by rapidly reducing its voltage to safe level. Usually
triggered by a switch, to minimize risk of electrical shock, that is readily
available to emergency personnel.
   UTILITY NOTIFICATION: Contacting local utility company to obtain appropriate
documents/applications to connect to grid. (Ord. 2025-6-10, 6-9-2025)
9-15-2: PERMITTED:
Solar energy equipment shall be permitted within the corporate limits of the
city as follows:
   A.   Solar private facility is a permitted accessory use in any zoning
district upon granting of a solar private permit by the city pursuant to
application as provided under section
9-15-3 below and must abide by the bulk regulations, density and dimensional
standards of the underlying zoning district in which it is located and the
provisions of section
9-15-4 below unless a variance is granted pursuant to section
9-15-6 below;
   B.   Solar energy generation facility is permitted in any zoning district
only upon the granting of a solar private permit by the city council after a
hearing before the city zoning board as set forth in article B. special uses,
of chapter 2. administration and enforcement, of title 9, zoning regulations,
of the city code and must abide by the bulk regulations, density and
dimensional standards of the underlying zoning district in which it is located
and the provisions of section
9-15-5 below unless a variance is granted pursuant to section
9-15-6 below. (Ord. 2025-6-10, 6-9-2025)
9-15-3: APPLICATION:
Applications for approval of solar energy equipment shall include the name,
address, telephone number, email address and signature of the applicant (and
the property owner, if other than the applicant), the payment of the
application fee in an amount determined from time to time by the city council
and the following information, all in such detail as requested by the city:
   A.   Legal description of the properly proposed for the solar energy
equipment;
   B.   Scaled site plan, showing, at a minimum, the boundaries of the property
upon which the solar energy equipment is to be located, the location of all
solar energy equipment and the location of all aboveground utility lines or
other utility equipment;
   C.   Description of the solar energy equipment and related improvements
including, without limitation, its manufacturer and type and description of
applicant and its solar energy equipment experience;
   D.   Documentation of compliance with all applicable industry standards. all
applicable laws and regulations, and the provisions of this section and any
other applicable provisions of the city code;
   E.   Such other information as the city shall request. (Ord. 2025-6-10, 6-9-
2025)
9-15-4: SOLAR PRIVATE FACILITY:
   A.   Effective Date. Any solar energy equipment lawfully existing or under
construction on                          , 2025 [insert date of adoption by
city council], but which does not conform with the requirements of this
chapter, shall be known as a nonconforming use and may remain, and the use then
being made thereof may be continued. However, any enlargement, alteration,
relocation or in use of such can be continued only as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Minimum Standards: Roof mounted solar private facility.
      1.   Solar panels must have underwriter lab (UL) listing or equivalent.
      2.   No reflectors allowed.
      3.   Most recent national electrical code adhered to, especially rapid
shutdown.
      4.   Provide evidence local utility has been notified of addition of
solar panels and utility approval.
      5.   Roof mount safety, must have a thirty-six feet (36") set-back from
Eaves, Rake and Ridge and a thirty-six feet (36") gap in center of roof.
      6.   Allowable gap between roof and panel: Flat roof two (2) feet; Sloped
roof twelve (12) inches.
   C.   Minimum Standards: Ground Mounted Solar Private Facility.
      1.   Ground mounted solar private facility to be considered accessory
structure.
      2.   Must comply with lot coverage requirements for accessory buildings
per zoning districts, in R-l and R-2 districts twenty (20) foot set-back from
rear property line and a ten (10) foot set-back for side yards plus a ten (10)
foot setback from principal building.
      3.   System must have underwriter lab (UL) listing or equivalent; also
proof of notification of utility company and their agreement.
      4.   Must comply with most recent national electrical code, especially
rapid shutdown.
      5.   Height of solar panels shall not be more than ten (10) feet at
maximum tilt in any zoning district.
      6.   No solar panels to be placed in required front yard or corner side
yards and shall not encroach upon the front or side yards adjacent to the
abutting streets.
      7.   No reflectors allowed.
      8.   Must be kept in good repair and operatable at all times, if not must
cease, repaired or removed.
      9.   Decommissioning plan provided. (Ord. 2025-6-10, 6-9-2025)
9-15-5: SOLAR ENERGY GENERATION FACILITY:
   A.   Setbacks.
      1.   All solar energy equipment and accessory structures of the facility,
excluding perimeter fencing, must comply with road setbacks established in the
underlying zoning district. In agricultural zoning districts, the setback for
non-residential structures shall apply.
      2.   All solar energy equipment and accessory structures of the facility,
excluding perimeter fencing, must comply with side and rear setbacks
established in the underlying zoning district for principal structures.
         a.   In the case of a solar energy generation facility to be built on
more than one parcel and the parcels are abutting, a zero side or rear setback
shall be permitted to the property line in common with the abutting parcel(s).
      3.   The horizontal separation distance from the solar energy generation
facility to the nearest principal residential dwelling shall be al least
seventy-five (75) feet. If the facility is to be located on a parcel with a
principal residential dwelling, this seventy-five (75) foot setback shall not
apply to the principal residential dwelling.
   B.   Height. All solar collectors, transformers, equipment or maintenance
structures shall comply with the height restriction of the underlying zoning
district.
   C.   Minimum Conditions For Special Use Permit.
      1.   Design And Installation. Solar collectors shall be designed and
located to avoid glare or reflection toward any inhabited buildings on adjacent
parcels. Solar collectors shall be designed and located to avoid glare or
reflection toward any adjacent roadways and shall not interfere with traffic or
create a traffic safety hazard.
      2.   Lighting. Lighting shall be limited to the extent required for
security and safety purposes and to meet applicable federal, state, or local
requirements. Except for federally required lighting. lighting shall be
reasonably shielded from adjacent properties and, where feasible, directed
downward to reduce light pollution.
      3.   Security Fencing. Facility equipment and structures shall be fully
enclosed and secured by a perimeter fence with a height of six (6) to eight (8)
feet. Lock boxes and keys shall be provided at locked entrances for emergency
personnel.
      4.   Warning Signage. A visible warning sign of "High Voltage" shall be
posted at all points of site ingress and egress and along the perimeter fence
of the facility, at a maximum of three hundred (300) feet apart. A sign that
includes the facility's 911 address and twenty-four (24) hour emergency contact
number shall be posted near all entrances to the facility.
      5.   Utility Connection. The applicant shall submil with the special use
application a copy of a letter from the electric utility company confirming the
review of the application for interconnection has started.
      6.   Eire Safely. It is the responsibility of the applicant to coordinate
with the local fire protection district. The applicant shall submit with the
special use application an approval letter from the local lire protection
district.
      7.   Roads. Any roads that will be used for construction purposes and
egress or ingress shall be identified and approved by the road jurisdiction.
All applicable road and bridge weight limits shall be met during construction
and maintenance. All applicable permits shall be acquired from the road
jurisdiction prior to start of construction. The applicant shall submit with
the special use application an approval letter from the road jurisdiction(s).
      8.   Endangered Species And Wetlands. Applicant shall seek natural
resource consultation with the Illinois department of natural resources (IDNR).
The applicant shall submit with the special use application the results of the
IDNR EcoCAT consultation. The cost of the EcoCAT consultation shall be paid by
the applicant.
      9.   Compliance With Additional Regulations. It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to coordinate with the federal aviation
administration and other applicable federal or state authority to attain any
additional required approval
for the installation of a solar energy generation facility. The applicant shall
submit with the special use application an approval letter from any federal or
state authority-requiring permit or approval.
   D.   Minimum Conditions For A Building Permit.
      1.   Building Permit. All solar energy generation facilities require a
building permit prior to the initiation of construction. Three full sets of
construction plans that conform to the manufacturer's standards and to the
officially adopted codes of the city shall be submitted with the building
permit application. Said plans shall be certified by an Illinois licensed
professional engineer.
      2.   Stormwater And Erosion Control. All solar energy generation
facilities must meet all applicable stormwater and erosion control ordinances
and regulations.
      3.   Installation Certification. An Illinois licensed professional
engineer shall certify that the construction and installation of the solar
energy generation facility meets or exceeds the manufacturer's construction and
installation standards and the officially adopted codes of the city.
   E.   Maintenance And Operation; Responsibility. The owner of the solar
energy generation facility shall maintain facility grounds. Such maintenance
shall include all actions necessary to keep the facility grounds free of litter
and debris. The owner shall keep all fences maintained in good repair.
   F.   Decommissioning Plan.
      1.   The solar energy generation facility shall be required to have a
decommissioning plan to ensure it is properly removed upon the end of the
project life or facility abandonment, for purposes of this section, "facility
abandonment" shall mean when no electricity is generated by the facility for a
consecutive period of two (2) years or when the owner and/or operator of the
solar energy generation facility has stated in writing to the city that the
owner and/or operator intends to abandon, vacate, or cease solar energy
creation operations indefinitely on a specified solar energy generation
facility. The decommissioning plan shall stale how the facility will be
decommissioned. Decommissioning shall include: removal of all structures
(including solar energy equipment and fencing) and debris to a depth of four
(4) feet, restoration of the soil, and restoration of vegetation within six (6)
months of the end of project life or facility abandonment. The owner shall
restore the land to a condition reasonably similar to its condition before the
development of the solar energy generation facility, including replacement of
top soil, which may have been removed or eroded, and replacement of trees. A
decommissioning plan shall be submitted and approved prior to the issuance of
the building permit.
      2.   Financial Security. Appropriate means of financial security shall be
required as pan of the decommissioning plan. The security shall be in the name
of the city for one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of
decommissioning. The estimated cost shall not include any projected salvage
value of the solar energy equipment and other used equipment. The estimated
cost shall be prepared by an Illinois licensed professional engineer.
         a.   Security may be in the form of one of the following:
         (1)   Irrevocable letter of credit;
         (2)   Continuous surety bond;
         (3)   Cash escrow account; or
         (4)   Any other means deemed acceptable by the city.
      3.   Agreement. The decommissioning plan shall also include an agreement
between the applicant and the city which stales:
      4.   Financial security must remain valid through the life of the
project. An updated decommissioning plan including estimated costs prepared by
an Illinois licensed professional engineer and financial security must be
submitted to the city every four (4) years;
      5.   The city shall have access to the financial security funds for the
express purpose of completing decommissioning if decommissioning is not
completed by the owner within six (6) months of the end of project life or
facility abandonment;
      6.   The city is granted the right of entry onto the site, pursuant to
reasonable notice, to effect or complete decommissioning; and
      7.   The city is granted the right to seek injunctive relief to effect or
complete decommissioning, as well as the city's right to seek reimbursement
from owner or owner's successor for decommissioning costs which exceed the
financial security and to file a lien against any real estate owned by the
owner or owner's successor, or in which they have an interest, for the excess
amount, and to take all steps allowed by law to enforce said lien.
      8.   Release Of Financial Security. Financial security shall only be
released when the city determines, after inspection, that the conditions of the
decommissioning plan have been met. (Ord. 2025-6-10, 6-9-2025)
9-15-6: VARIANCES:
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an applicant may request a variance from any of
the provisions of this chapter 15. The variance request shall be made a part of
the original application. Permits for solar energy equipment shall be granted
by the city council by a simple majority, after the public hearing described
above, but variance requests shall require the affirmative vote of two-thirds
(2/3) of the city council after the public hearing described above. (Ord. 2025-
6-10, 6-9-2025)
9-15-7: CONFORMANCE TO APPLICATION:
Upon approval of solar energy equipment as set forth in this chapter, the solar
energy equipment shall be constructed in accordance with the application to the
city. Any modifications to the solar energy equipment, whether during or after
initial construction, shall require an amendment to the solar private permit or
special use permit, as the case may be, which shall require the same procedure
as the initial issuance of the solar private permit or special use permit. Upon
completion of construction but prior to operation, the property owner shall, at
the property owner's expense, engage a licensed electrician to inspect the
solar energy equipment to determine compliance with all applicable laws,
regulations and ordinances and the provisions of this chapter and provide to
the city evidence of such inspection and compliance with the terms of this
chapter, in form and substance acceptable to the city. Any deficiencies noted
in such inspection shall be corrected prior to operation. (Ord. 2025-6-10, 6-9-
2025)
9-15-8: VIOLATION:
Violations of this chapter shall be punishable as set forth in section
1-4-1 of the city code. (Ord. 2025-6-10, 6-9-2025)
