TREMONT, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 25-109, passed 3-17-2025; and
State legislation current through 2024 Illinois Legislative Service,
Pamphlet No. 5
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
CURRENT OFFICIALS
of the
VILLAGE OF TREMONT, ILLINOIS
__________
Village President
Todd Bong
__________
Village Board
John Replogle
Nate Zuercher
Ken Harding
Drew Scranton
Scott Getz
Sherena Smith
__________
Village Clerk
David Lucas
__________
Village Administrator
Jeff Hinman
__________
Village Treasurer
Jeanine Royer
__________
Village Secretary
Kim Marron
__________
Village Attorney
Michael Seghetti
__________
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Fiscal year
   
10.13   Reasonable time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.17   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   General definitions, see 5 ILCS 70/1 et seq.
   Illinois Municipal Code, see 65 ILCS 5
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Village of Tremont, Illinois,
shall be designated as the Code of Tremont and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES or BOARD. The legislative body of the village.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code, as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Tazewell County, Illinois.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof and, as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Illinois.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Tremont,
Illinois.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the
words YEAR OF OUR LORD.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the village shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Board
of Trustees or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   (A)   Central Standard Time shall be the official time within the village
for the transaction of all village business; provided that during the
observance of Central Daylight Time under applicable law, Central Daylight Time
shall be the official time within the village.
   (B)   (1)   All legal or official proceedings of the Board of Trustees and
all official business of the village shall be regulated as to time in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   When by ordinance, resolution or action of any village officer or
body, an act must be performed at or within a prescribed time, it shall be
performed according to the official time as herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village is hereby established and determined to
commence on May 1 in each year.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anyway be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Board of Trustees shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (65 ILCS 5/3-2-1) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the village published in a previous year and subsequently
amended, the previous code section shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior
Code, §       ).”
(Prior Code, § 10.19)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of the
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 1-2-1.1) (Prior Code, § 10.99)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCIES
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   GENERAL POLICIES
      
37.   INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
Board of Trustees
   
30.01   Composition; functions
   
30.02   Oath and salary
   
30.03   Village President
   
30.04   President Pro Tem
Meetings; Rules of Procedures
   
30.15   Regular and special meetings
   
30.16   President to preside over meetings
   
30.17   President not to vote; exceptions
   
30.18   Order of business
   
30.19   Rescinded action
   
30.20   Resolutions to be reduced to writing before being voted upon
   
30.21   Addressing meetings
   
30.22   Suspension of rules
   
30.23   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.24   Quorum
   
30.25   Standing committees
   
30.26   Disturbance of meetings prohibited
   
30.27   Meetings open to the public; public participation
   
30.28   Electronic attendance
Ordinances
   
30.40   Approval and veto
   
30.41   Reconsideration; passing over veto
   
30.42   Record and memorandum of ordinances; prima facie evidence of contents
and the like
   
30.43   Proof of ordinances
   
30.44   Ordinances to be signed
   
30.45   Publication of ordinances
   
30.46   Custody of code; distribution
   
30.47   Tampering with code
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01 COMPOSITION; FUNCTIONS.
   The Board of Trustees, consisting of six members, shall be elected to office
for a four-year term, according to the method provided by state statute. The
Board shall be the Legislative Department of the village government and shall
perform such duties and have such powers as may be delegated by state statute
to it.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 OATH AND SALARY.
   The members of the Board of Trustees shall take the oath of office
prescribed by state statute and shall receive as compensation as provided in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 30.02) (Ord. 08-107, passed 11- -2008)
§ 30.03 VILLAGE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   Election and term of office. The Village President shall be elected
for a term of four years, and shall be the President of the Board of Trustees,
as is provided by state statute.
   (B)   Duties. The Village President shall be the chief executive officer of
the village, and shall perform all such duties as may be required of him or her
by state statute or ordinance. The President shall have supervision over all
the executive officers of the village, and over all of the employees of the
village. The President shall have the power and authority to inspect all books
and records kept by any village officer or employees at any reasonable time.
   (C)   Designation of duties. Whenever there is a question as to the
respective powers or duties of any appointed officer of the village, this shall
be settled by the President, and the President shall have the power to delegate
to any such officer any duty which is to be performed when no specific officer
has been directed to perform the duty.
   (D)   Bond and oath. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
the President shall give a bond with sureties to be approved by the Board of
Trustees conditioned upon his or her faithful performance of his or her duties,
in the sum of not less than $3,000. The President shall take the oath of office
as prescribed by §
31.04 of this chapter.
   (E)   Purchasing authority. The Village President may make, on his or her
own signature, expenditures not exceeding $750 without the prior approval of
the Board of Trustees. Any purchase that exceeds $750 must be authorized in
advance by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 30.03) (Ord. 08-107, passed 11- -2008; Ord. 22-111, passed 6-20-
2022)
§ 30.04 PRESIDENT PRO TEM.
   The Board of Trustees shall appoint annually, at its first regularly
scheduled meeting in May of each year, one of its members to act as President
Pro Tem, who, during the absence of the Village President for a continuous
period of seven days; or during any period of disability of the Village
President; or at the express direction of the Village President; shall have
full authority to perform all the duties pertaining to such office.
(Prior Code, § 30.04) (Ord. 09-101, passed 2-16-2009)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURES
§ 30.15 REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Village Board shall hold its regular meetings in the village hall
on the first and third Monday of each and every month, at 7:00 p.m., beginning
with the first such meeting in June of 2009, except for Labor Day, in which
event the meeting shall be held on the following day.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Village President or any three
Trustees upon at least 24 hours’ notice to all members and the President;
provided that, if all of the Trustees are present at a special meeting, no
notice of such meeting shall be necessary and such notice shall be deemed
waived.
(Prior Code, § 30.15) (Ord. 09-103, passed 5-4-2009)
§ 30.16 PRESIDENT TO PRESIDE OVER MEETINGS.
   The Village President shall be the presiding officer of all regular and
special meeting of the Board of Trustees and at all times when the Board meets
as a committee of the whole.
(Prior Code, § 30.16)
§ 30.17 PRESIDENT NOT TO VOTE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The Village President shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or
motion, except where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie; or where
one-half of the Trustees have voted in favor of an ordinance, resolution or
motion even though there is no tie vote; or where a vote greater than a
majority of the Board of Trustees is required by statute to adopt an ordinance,
resolution or motion. In both instances specified, the Village President shall
vote.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall deprive a President Pro Tem from voting
in his or her capacity as a Trustee, but he or she shall not be entitled to
another vote in his or her capacity as President Pro Tem.
(Prior Code, § 30.17) (Ord. 81-106, passed 11-9-1981)
§ 30.18 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business of the Village Board of Trustees shall be as follows:
   (A)   Roll call;
   (B)   Reading minutes of previous meeting;
   (C)   Reports of standing committees;
   (D)   Reports of special committees;
   (E)   Special reports;
   (F)   Unfinished business;
   (G)   Claims, petitions, ordinances, resolutions and miscellaneous business;
and
   (H)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 30.18)
§ 30.19 RESCINDED ACTION.
   No vote or action of the Board of Trustees shall be rescinded at any special
meeting of the Board of Trustees unless there be present at such special
meeting as many members of the Board of Trustees as were present at the meeting
when such vote or action was taken.
(Prior Code, § 30.19)
§ 30.20 RESOLUTIONS TO BE REDUCED TO WRITING BEFORE BEING VOTED UPON.
   Any resolutions submitted to the Board of Trustees shall be reduced to
writing before being voted upon on request of any two members of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 30.20)
§ 30.21 ADDRESSING MEETINGS.
   No person, other than the President or a member of the Board, shall address
that body at any regular or special meeting, except upon consent of a majority
of the members present.
(Prior Code, § 30.21)
§ 30.22 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may be suspended
at any time by the consent of a majority of the members present at any meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.22)
§ 30.23 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern the deliberations of the Board of
Trustees, except when in conflict with any of the foregoing rules.
(Prior Code, § 30.23)
§ 30.24 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Trustees or three Trustees and the Village President shall
constitute a quorum to do business.
(Prior Code, § 30.24)
§ 30.25 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following shall be the standing committees of the Board of
Trustees:
      (1)   Sewer;
      (2)   Waterworks;
      (3)   Streets and Sidewalks;
      (4)   Budget and Finance;
      (5)   Buildings and Grounds;
      (6)   Parks, Pool and Recreation;
      (7)   Police, Health and Safety;
      (8)   Zoning and Planning; and
      (9)   Personnel.
   (B)   Special committees shall be created from time to time as directed by
the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   All standing and special committees shall consist of three members
each, including the Chairperson, unless the Board shall otherwise direct.
   (D)   All committees shall be appointed by the Village President.
(Prior Code, § 30.25)
§ 30.26 DISTURBANCE OF MEETINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any meeting of the Board of
Trustees or of any committee thereof.
(Prior Code, § 30.26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.27 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC; PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   All meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be open to the public
subject to limitations provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 30.27)
   (B)   (1)   The recitals in the ordinance codified herein shall be, and are
hereby, incorporated herein as if fully set forth within this division (B)(1).
      (2)   The following rules shall apply to public participation at meetings
of the Board of Trustees of the village (the “Board”).
         (a)   Public participation at Board meetings is encouraged. A period
of time at each regular meeting of the Board shall be made available for public
comments and shall be designated on each agenda as “COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC.”
         (b)   A person shall be permitted to speak upon being recognized by
the Chairperson. The person shall stand (if possible), state his or her name
and address prior to making comments and limit speaking to no more than three
minutes, unless additional time is granted by the Chairperson. Each person will
be permitted to speak only once, unless additional opportunities are allowed by
the Chairperson.
         (c)   All speakers shall address their comments to the Chairperson.
The Chairperson may request that the appropriate member of the Board or staff
respond to the comments.
         (d)   The Chairperson shall preserve order and decorum. The
Chairperson shall decide all questions of order.
         (e)   When addressing the Board, Trustees, staff and other persons
permitted to speak shall confine their remarks to the matter or matters at hand
and avoid personal remarks, the impugning of motives and merely contentious
statements. If any person indulges in such remarks or otherwise engages in
conduct injurious to the harmony of the Board and the meeting, the Chairperson
may immediately terminate such person’s opportunity to speak. This decision is
at the discretion of the Chairperson or upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds
of the Board of Trustees present. Any person, except a member of the Board, who
engages in disorderly conduct during a meeting may be ejected from the meeting
upon motion passed by a majority of the Board present.
         (f)   After the termination of the “public comments” portion of the
meeting, no person shall be allowed to address the Board, except in response to
a specific request or question from the Board.
      (3)   The following shall be posted on the village’s website and posted
by the door of the meeting:
 
CITIZENS’ GUIDE TO ADDRESSING THE VILLAGE BOARD
 
Anyone wishing to speak under the agenda item entitled “COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC”
shall adhere to the following rules and guidelines.
 
1. A person shall be permitted to speak upon being recognized by the Chairperson.
Please stand (if possible), announce your name and address before commencing. All
comments under “COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC” are limited to three minutes, unless
additional time is granted by the Chairperson and each person shall be permitted
to speak only once, unless additional opportunities are allowed by the
Chairperson.
2. All speakers shall address their comments to the Chairperson. The Chairperson
may request that the appropriate member of the Board or staff respond to the
comment.
3. The Chairperson shall preserve order and decorum. The Chairperson shall decide
all questions of order.
4. When addressing the Board, Trustees, staff and other persons permitted to speak
shall confine their remarks to the matter at hand and avoid personal remarks, the
impugning of motives and merely contentious statements. If any person indulges in
such remarks or otherwise engages in conduct injurious to the harmony of the Board
and the meeting, the Chairperson may immediately terminate the opportunity to
speak. This decision is at the discretion of the Chairperson or upon the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of the Board of Trustees present. Any person,
except a member of the Board, who engages in disorderly conduct during a meeting
may be ejected from the meeting upon motion passed by a majority of the Board
present.
5. After the termination of the “public comments” portion of the meeting, no
person shall be allowed to address the Board except in response to a specific
request or question from the Board.
6. Please do not repeat comments that have already been made by others.
 
(Ord. 14-104, passed 4-7-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
§ 30.28 ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   The recitals of the ordinance codified herein shall be, and they are,
hereby incorporated herein as if fully set forth within this division (A).
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the President of the Board of Trustees
shall be considered to be a member of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The following regulations shall apply to electronic attendance at
meetings of the Board of Trustees of the village.
      (1)   (a)   If a quorum of the members of the Board are physically
present as required by § 2.01 of the Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/2.01), the
Board may allow a physically absent Trustee to attend a Village Board meeting
by other means if the Trustee is prevented from physically attending because
of:
            1.   Personal illness or disability;
            2.   Employment purposes or the business of the public body; or
            3.   A family or other emergency; provided, no Trustee may attend a
Board meeting by other means more than twice in any calendar year.
         (b)   OTHER MEANS, as used in these regulations, shall mean by video
or audio conference.
      (2)   If a Trustee wishes to attend a meeting by other means, the Trustee
must notify the Village Clerk within 48 hours before the meeting unless advance
notice is impractical.
      (3)   Trustees may participate by other means at either an open meeting
or a closed meeting of the Board.
      (4)   Written minutes of all Board meetings, whether open or closed,
shall include whether the Trustees were physically present or present by means
of audio or video conference.
      (5)   As the first items of business, the Trustees who are physically in
attendance at a Board meeting shall determine, by majority vote, whether a
Trustee who is not physically in attendance may participate in that meeting by
other means.
(Ord. 14-103, passed 4-7-2014)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.40 APPROVAL AND VETO.
   All resolutions and motions which create any liability against the village,
which provide for the expenditure of its money, or to sell any village
property, and all ordinances passed by the Village Board shall be deposited
with the Village Clerk. If the Village President approves of them, he or she
shall sign them. Those of which the Village President disapproves shall be
returned by the President to the Village Board, with his or her written
objections, at the next regular meeting of the Village Board occurring not less
than five days after their passage. The Village President may disapprove of any
one or more sums appropriated by any ordinance, resolution or motion making an
appropriation and, if so, the remainder shall be effective. However, the
Village President may disapprove entirely of an ordinance, resolution or motion
making an appropriation. If the Village President fails to return any ordinance
or any specified resolution with his or her written objections, within the
designated time, it shall become effective despite the absence of his or her
signature.
(Prior Code, § 30.40)
§ 30.41 RECONSIDERATION; PASSING OVER VETO.
   Every resolution and motion specified in §
30.40 of this chapter, and every ordinance, which is returned to the Board of
Trustees by the Village President shall be reconsidered by the Board of
Trustees. If, after such reconsideration, two-thirds of all the Trustees
elected to the Village Board shall agree to pass an ordinance, resolution or
motion, notwithstanding the President’s refusal to sign it, then it shall be
effective. The vote on the question of passage over the President’s veto shall
be by yeas and nays and shall be recorded in the journal.
(Prior Code, § 30.41)
§ 30.42 RECORD AND MEMORANDUM OF ORDINANCES; PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF CONTENTS
AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees shall be recorded by
the Village Clerk in a proper book with indexes. The original shall be filed in
the office of the Village Clerk, and due proof of publication of all ordinances
requiring publication shall be procured by the Clerk, and such proof of
ordinances at the foot of the record of each ordinance a memorandum of the date
of the passage and, if published or posted, of the date of the publication or
posting of such ordinance.
   (B)   The record and memorandum required by division (A) above, or a
certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage
and of the publication or posting of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 30.42)
§ 30.43 PROOF OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The contents of all village ordinances, the date of passage and the
date of publication or posting, where required, may be proved by the
certificate of the Village Clerk, under the seal of the village.
   (B)   Whenever village ordinances are printed in book or pamphlet form and
purport to be published by authority of the Board of Trustees, such book or
pamphlet shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage and legal
publication of such ordinances, as of the dates mentioned in such book or
pamphlet, in all courts and administrative tribunals.
(Prior Code, § 30.43)
§ 30.44 ORDINANCES TO BE SIGNED.
   All ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees must be signed by the Village
President.
(Prior Code, § 30.44)
§ 30.45 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The President shall cause to be prepared and published all ordinances of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 30.45)
§ 30.46 CUSTODY OF CODE; DISTRIBUTION.
   All the printed books containing the code of ordinances shall be deposited
with the Village Clerk. The Clerk shall deliver one copy thereof to each
officer of the village and to such other persons as the Board of Trustees may
direct. The President or Village Clerk shall have the power to extend or to
reciprocate courtesies of other municipal corporations by presenting to them a
copy of the code.
(Prior Code, § 30.46)
§ 30.47 TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation in the village to
change or amend by addition or deletion any part or portion of this code, or to
insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the village to be
misrepresented thereby.
(Prior Code, § 30.47) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Application of provisions
   
31.02   Qualifications for office
   
31.03   Appointive officers to be commissioned
   
31.04   Oath of office
   
31.05   Bonds
   
31.06   Term of office
   
31.07   Assignment of duties
   
31.08   Records open to inspection by President
   
31.09   Removal of officers and employees
   
31.10   Duty upon termination of office
   
31.11   Compensation
   
31.12   Pecuniary interest in contract; free service
Officials
   
31.25   Village Clerk
   
31.26   Village Treasurer
   
31.27   Village Attorney
   
31.28   Village Engineer
   
31.29   Superintendent of Public Works
   
31.30   Code Enforcement Officer
   
31.31   Village Administrator
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise indicated or inconsistent
with state law or provisions contained elsewhere in this code, shall apply to
all officers and employees of the village whether elected or appointed.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 QUALIFICATIONS FOR OFFICE.
   No person shall be eligible to any village office unless he or she is a
qualified elector of the village and has resided therein at least one year next
preceding his or her election or appointment. However, these requirements shall
not apply to those positions which require technical training or knowledge. Nor
shall these requirements apply to village attorneys. But, no person shall be
eligible to any village office who is a defaulter to the village.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
§ 31.03 APPOINTIVE OFFICERS TO BE COMMISSIONED.
   All village officers appointed by the Board of Trustees shall be
commissioned as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-5, by the Village President
issuing a certificate of appointment, under the corporate seal, to the Village
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
§ 31.04 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Every officer of the village, whether elected or appointed, shall
before entering upon the duties of office take and subscribe an oath or
affirmation which may be substantially in the following form:
 
I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United States and
the Constitution of the State of Illinois and will faithfully discharge the duties of the
office of                of the Village of Tremont, Illinois, according to the best of my
ability.
 
   (B)   This oath or affirmation shall be filed with the Village Clerk, when
subscribed.
(Prior Code, § 31.04)
§ 31.05 BONDS.
   (A)   Required; approval; amounts; place of filing.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees may require a bond of any officer or employee
before entering upon the duties of his or her office where such a bond has not
already been provided for in this code. The bond shall be conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties of his or her office and the payment of all
money received by the officer and shall be payable to the village in such sums
as may in the future be provided.
      (2)   Whenever any officer shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees to
perform the duties of an additional office, his or her bond shall be rewritten
so as to cover such additional duties as heretofore provided.
      (3)   All certificates of bonds shall be filed with, recorded and
preserved by the Village Clerk, except the bond of the Village Clerk, which
shall be filed with, recorded and preserved by the Village Treasurer, and the
bond of the President which shall be filed with, recorded and preserved by the
County Clerk.
   (B)   New bonds. In case any surety upon the bond of any officer shall
withdraw, or in case any surety upon an official bond shall become insolvent,
or if the Board of Trustees shall for any reason so request by resolution, a
new bond may be required of such officer and, unless such new bond is given
within ten days, the office shall be declared vacant. However, nothing herein
shall be construed as releasing any surety before the new bond is given and
approved, nor as releasing any default occurring before such new bond is given
and approved.
   (C)   No officer to become surety for another. No member of the Board of
Trustees and no person
holding any office in the village shall become surety on the official bond of
any other officer of the village.
(Prior Code, § 31.05)
§ 31.06 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Every appointive officer or employee of the village shall hold office for a
term of one year or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified,
unless otherwise provided by ordinance. Unless otherwise provided, the term of
each office shall expire on April 30 following the appointment.
(Prior Code, § 31.06)
§ 31.07 ASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to assign to any appointive
officer any duty which is not assigned by ordinance to some other specific
officer and shall determine disputes or questions relating to the respective
powers or duties of officers.
(Prior Code, § 31.07)
§ 31.08 RECORDS OPEN TO INSPECTION BY PRESIDENT.
   All records kept by any officer of the village shall be open to inspection
by the President or any member of the Board of Trustees at all reasonable
times, whether or not such records are required to be kept by statute or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.08)
§ 31.09 REMOVAL OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Except where otherwise provided by statute, the President may remove any
officer appointed by him or her, under this code, on any formal charge,
whenever he or she is of the opinion that the interests of the village demand
removal, with the advice and consent of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 31.09)
§ 31.10 DUTY UPON TERMINATION OF OFFICE.
   Every officer and employee of the village, upon the expiration of his or her
term for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his or her successor all books
and records which may be the property of the village; and, if no successor has
been appointed within one week after the termination of office, such property
shall be delivered either to the Village Clerk or to the Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 31.10)
§ 31.11 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The President of the Village Board of Trustees shall be paid a salary
of $150 per meeting attended.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall be paid a salary of $500 per month.
   (C)   The Village Treasurer shall be paid a salary in an amount determined
by the Village Board.
   (D)   The Village Board of Trustees shall be paid a salary of $75 per
meeting.
   (E)   Temporary employees shall receive an hourly rate of pay which the
Board shall provide by ordinance, resolution or motion, payable bi-weekly.
   (F)   No officer or employee receiving a salary from the village shall be
entitled to retain any portion of any fees collected by him or her in the
performance of his or her duties as village officer or employee in the absence
of a specific ordinance provision to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 31.11)
§ 31.12 PECUNIARY INTEREST IN CONTRACT; FREE SERVICE.
   No officer or employee elected or appointed to an office or position of the
village shall be interested, directly or indirectly, in any contract for work
or materials, or profile thereof, or for services to be furnished or performed
for the village or for any person operating a public utility wholly or partly
within the village, except as provided by statute. No such officer or employee
shall request, accept or receive, directly or indirectly, from any person
owning, operating or leasing within or partly within the village any public
utility, or any service or transportation, upon terms more favorable than are
granted to the public generally or any employment, for hire or otherwise, or
any free service or transportation, either for himself or herself or any other
person, except as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 31.12)
Statutory reference:
   Prohibited and permissible pecuniary interests in contracts, see 65 ILCS 5/
3.1-55-10
OFFICIALS
§ 31.25 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk shall be elected and serve for a four-year term
and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified as is provided by
state statute.
   (B)   Bond. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the Clerk
shall execute a bond in the sum of $1,000.
   (C)   Signatures. The Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the
village and all licenses, permits, and other documents as shall require this
formality.
   (D)   Money collected. The Clerk shall turn over all money received by him
or her on behalf of the village to the Treasurer, promptly on receipt of the
same; and, with such money, he or she shall give a statement as to the source
thereof.
   (E)   Accounts. The Clerk shall keep accounts showing all money received by
him or her, and the source and disposition thereof; and such other accounts as
may be required by statute or ordinance.
   (F)   Records. In addition to the record of ordinances and other records
which the Clerk is required by state statute to keep, he or she shall keep a
register of all licenses and permits issued, in all cases where such a record
is not directed to be kept by some other official of the village, and payments
thereon. He or she shall keep such other records as may be required by the
Board of Trustees.
   (G)   Seal. The Clerk shall be the custodian of the village seal and shall
affix its impression on documents whenever this is required.
(Prior Code, § 31.25) (Ord. 08-107, passed 11- -2008)
§ 31.26 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   Appointment; compensation. There is hereby created the office of
Treasurer, who shall be appointed by the President with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees, and he or she shall receive such compensation as may
be set from time to time by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Bond. The Village Treasurer shall give a bond before entering upon his
or her duties, in the sum required by the Board of Trustees, but such amount
shall not be less, or more, than that required by statute. This bond shall be
conditioned upon the faithful performance by the Treasurer of his or her duties
and shall be conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss by reason of any
neglect of duty or any act of the Treasurer.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   The Treasurer shall perform such duties as may be prescribed for
him or her by statute or ordinance.
      (2)   He or she shall receive all money paid into the village, either
directly from the person paying the money or from the hands of such other
official or employee as may receive it, and he or she shall pay out money only
on vouchers or orders properly signed by the President and Clerk of the
village.
   (D)   Deposit of funds. The Treasurer shall deposit the village funds in
such depositories as may be selected from time to time as is provided by law.
The Treasurer shall keep the deposit of the village money separate and distinct
from his or her own money and shall not make private or personal use of any
village money.
   (E)   Records. The Treasurer shall keep the records showing all money
received by him or her, showing source from which it is received and the
purpose for which it is paid, and shall keep records at all times showing the
financial status of the village.
   (F)   Accounting. The Treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may be
required by statute or ordinance and he or she shall keep them in the manner
required by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 31.26)
§ 31.27 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Creation of office; appointment. There is hereby created the office of
Village Attorney, an executive office of the village. The Attorney shall be
appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Suits and actions. The Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all
suits or actions at law or equity to which the village may be a party, or in
which it may be interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any officer
of the village on behalf of the village, or in the capacity of such person as
an officer of the village.
   (C)   Judgments. It shall be the duty of the Attorney to see to the full
enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the
village, and of all similar interlocutory orders.
   (D)   Legal advisor. The Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the village
and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the village, whenever
requested to do so by any village official. Upon request by the President or by
the Board of Trustees, the Village Attorney shall reduce any such opinion to
writing.
   (E)   Special assessments. It shall be the duty of the Attorney to see to
the completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation
proceedings.
   (F)   Ordinances and documents. It shall be the duty of the Attorney to
draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or other documents or
instruments, to which the village may be a party; and upon request of the Board
to draft ordinances covering any subjects within the power of the village.
   (G)   Retaining law firm to act as Village Attorney.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to retain a law firm, be
it a partnership, corporation or professional association, to act as its legal
adviser, to represent the village in litigation, except where the Board directs
otherwise, to draft all contracts, ordinances and other documents needed by the
villages to advise the village officers and employees on matters pertaining to
their duties, and to render such other legal services as may be required by the
Board.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees is further authorized to appoint one or more
members of the law firm to act in the capacity of Village Attorney and to carry
out the above mentioned duties.
(Prior Code, § 31.27)
§ 31.28 VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created the office of Village
Engineer, who shall be appointed by the President, with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Oath. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the
Engineer shall take the oath prescribed by law for all village officers.
   (C)   Maps, plats and records. The Village Engineer shall keep accurate
maps, plats and records of all public works, lands or property owned by the
village.
   (D)   Duties. The Village Engineer shall advise the Board of Trustees and
village officials on all engineering matters referred to him or her and shall
perform such duties as are provided by law or ordinance and, in addition
thereto, such other duties as from time to time may be imposed upon him or her
by the Board of Trustees or by the President. He or she shall, from time to
time as required by the Board of Trustees, make reports regarding public
improvements, repairs of streets, bridges and sidewalks or such other work as
the Board may request, and shall make such suggestions to the Board of
Trustees, regarding the same, as shall, in his or her judgment, seem best and
proper.
(Prior Code, § 31.28)
§ 31.29 SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created the office of
Superintendent of Public Works who shall be appointed by the President with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Public Works to
cause the inspection of all connections made to the public water and sewer of
the village to determine that the same are properly made.
   (C)   Waterworks and sewer.
      (1)   The Superintendent of Public Works shall have charge of the water
and sewer systems.
      (2)   He or she shall be responsible for the proper operation of the
same; and he or she is hereby authorized to see to the enforcement of all laws
and provisions pertaining thereto.
   (D)   Streets. The Superintendent of Public Works shall have charge of the
public streets and supervision over the maintenance and repair of the same.
   (E)   Buildings. The Superintendent of Public Works shall have charge of the
maintenance and repair of all village-owned buildings.
   (F)   Other physical property. All physical property of the village which is
not assigned by the Board to some other officer or employee shall be in the
care and custody of the Superintendent of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 31.29)
§ 31.30 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created the office of Code
Enforcement Officer, who shall be appointed by the President with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer to enforce all
the provisions of the zoning ordinance and amendments thereto.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be the enforcing officer for the
Board of Health and shall see to the enforcement of all rules of the Board of
Health. The Code Enforcement Officer shall examine all cases of contagious
diseases arising in the village and shall see to the enforcement of quarantine
rules and determine the time for raising quarantine. The Code Enforcement
Officer shall give to the Board information and advice concerning the health of
the village and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or
her by the Board.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer to see to the
enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to buildings and to inspect
all building or structures being erected or altered, as frequently as may be
necessary to ensure compliance with the village ordinances.
         (a)   Ex-officio Plumbing Inspector. The Code Enforcement Officer
shall act as ex-officio Plumbing Inspector and shall enforce all provisions of
the ordinances relating to plumbing and plumbing equipment and to make such
inspections and perform such tests as may be necessary in the enforcement of
such ordinances.
         (b)   Ex-officio Electrical Inspector. The Code Enforcement Officer
shall act as ex-officio Electrical Inspector and shall enforce all ordinances
and provisions relating to electrical signs, electrical wiring and
electrically-operated equipment. He or she shall have the power to cause the
current in any wire or conduit to be turned off whenever this is necessary in
an emergency for the protection of life or property.
      (4)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall perform such additional duties
as may be assigned to him or her by the President and Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Powers. The Code Enforcement Officer shall have the powers and
exercise the functions necessary for such enforcement which are delegated to
him or her by statute or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.30)
§ 31.31 VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Appointment; compensation. There is hereby created the office of
Village Administrator, who shall be appointed by the Village President with
consent of the Village Board. The Village Administrator shall receive such
compensation as may be set from time to time by the Village Board.
   (B)   Duties. The Village Administrator shall:
      (1)   Attend all meetings of the Village Board;
      (2)   Recommend to the Village Board adoption of such measures as he or
she may deem necessary or expedient, and advise the Village Board on all
matters that come to his or her attention;
      (3)   Make recommendation to the Village Board concerning compensation
and job classification for each employee in the village service;
      (4)   Work with community organizations and other governmental
jurisdictions to maximize productivity and achieve results that are beneficial
to the village. He or she shall serve as liaison with other area wide and local
departments, boards, agencies and jurisdictions.
      (5)   Shall serve as the Enterprise Zone Administrator;
      (6)   In conjunction with the Finance Committee, develop and maintain
economic incentives for new and expanding businesses;
      (7)   Communicate with Village President and the Village Board to advise
project status, accomplishments and when needed prepare written reports;
      (8)   Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the village and services maintained by the public utilities
in the village;
      (9)   Receive resident suggestions and complaints and work towards
acceptable solutions with the Village President, Village Board and committees
if needed;
      (10)   Attend seminars, meetings and training in order to stay updated to
the latest techniques procedures and regulations;
      (11)   Update the village website as needed;
      (12)   Assist with the updating of the village’s Comprehensive Plan;
      (13)   Assist the Village President and Village Board in the evaluation
of professional services; and
      (14)   Such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the
Village President.
(Ord. 22-105, passed - -2022)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Board of Local Improvements
   
32.01   Appointments
   
32.02   Duties
Plan Commission
   
32.15   Appointment; membership
   
32.16   Term of office
   
32.17   Procedure
   
32.18   Powers and duties
   
32.19   Land subdivision or resubdivision
   
32.20   Improvements
   
32.21   Expenditures
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
§ 32.01 APPOINTMENTS.
   There is hereby established a Board of Local Improvements for the village,
which shall consist of the Village President, who shall be the President of the
Board of Local Improvements, and all of the members of the village’s Board of
Trustees. The President, with the approval of the members of the Board of Local
Improvements, shall appoint a member of the Board to serve as Secretary, who
shall keep written minutes of the Board’s proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 DUTIES.
   The Board of Local Improvements shall have the powers and perform the duties
assigned to it by statute or provision of this code and shall have the power of
employing the services of an engineer for any local improvement originated by
it.
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 32.15 APPOINTMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created a Plan Commission for the village which shall
consist of nine members, no more than two of which shall be members of the
Board of Trustees. The members of the Plan Commission shall be citizens of the
village and shall be appointed by the President on the basis of their
particular fitness for their duty on the Plan Commission and shall be approved
by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 32.20)
§ 32.16 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Of the nine appointed members, three shall serve for a period of one year,
three for a period of two years and three for a period of three years; except
that, any Trustee on the Plan Commission shall serve for the term of his or her
elected office. Thereafter, any appointed members, other than Trustees, shall
serve for a period of three years. All members of the Commission shall serve
without compensation; except that, if the Village Board of Trustees deems it
advisable, the Secretary may receive such compensation as may be fixed from
time to time by the Board of Trustees and provided for in the appropriation
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 32.21)
§ 32.17 PROCEDURE.
   Immediately following their appointment, the members of the Plan Commission
shall meet, organize, elect a Chairperson and such other officers as it may
deem necessary, and adopt and later change, or alter, rules and regulations of
organization and procedure consistent with village ordinances and state laws.
The Commission shall keep written records of its proceedings, which shall be
open at all times to public inspection. The Commission shall also file an
annual report with the President and Board of Trustees, setting forth its
transactions and recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 32.22)
§ 32.18 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Plan Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   (1)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees a
comprehensive plan of public improvements, looking to the present and future
development and growth of the village. Such a plan, after its adoption by the
Board of Trustees, will be known as the Official Plan; and
      (2)   Such plan shall include reasonable requirements in reference to
streets, alleys and public grounds within the corporate limits and in
contiguous territory outside of and distant not more than one and one-half
miles from such limits, and not included in any municipality, such requirements
to be effective whenever such lands shall be subdivided after the adoption of
such plan.
   (B)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees from time to time,
such changes in the plan or any part thereof as may be deemed necessary by the
Board of Trustees or by the Plan Commission;
   (C)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees from time to time
plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of such
official plan;
   (D)   To give aid to the village officials, charged with the direction of
projects for improvements, embraced within the Official Plan, to further the
making of such improvements, and generally to promote the realization of the
Official Plan;
   (E)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
   (F)   To cooperate with municipal or regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area; and
   (G)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by
statute.
(Prior Code, § 32.23)
§ 32.19 LAND SUBDIVISION OR RESUBDIVISION.
   Following the adoption of an Official Plan as prescribed in this chapter, no
map or plat of any subdivision presented for record, affecting land within the
corporate limits of the village or in contiguous territory outside of and
distant not more than one and one-half miles from such limits and included in
any other municipality, shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless
the subdivision thereon shall provide for streets, alleys and public grounds in
conformity with any requirements applicable thereto of such Official Plan.
(Prior Code, § 32.24)
§ 32.20 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Village Clerk shall furnish the Plan Commission, for its consideration,
a copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements of any
nature. The Plan Commission may report in relation thereto if it deems a report
necessary or advisable for the consideration of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 32.25)
§ 32.21 EXPENDITURES.
   The Plan Commission may, at the discretion of the Board of Trustees, employ
necessary help whose salaries, wages and other necessary expenses shall be
provided for by adequate appropriation made by the Board of Trustees from
public funds. If the Plan Commission shall deem it advisable to secure
technical advice or services, it may be done upon authority from the Board of
Trustees and appropriations by the Board of Trustees therefor.
(Prior Code, § 32.26)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Creation of Department
   
33.02   Appointment
   
33.03   Rank
   
33.04   Tenure
   
33.05   Duties of Chief of Police
   
33.06   Rules and regulations
   
33.07   Call for assistance
   
33.08   Duties of police officers
   
33.09   Power of arrest; President and Village Board
   
33.10   Serving process
   
33.11   Conduct of members
   
33.12   Witness fees
   
33.13   Stolen property; custody of
   
33.14   Rewards
   
33.15   Special police
   
33.16   Hiring standards for part-time officers
§ 33.01 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby created a Police Department for the village, which shall
consist of the Chief of Police, who shall be ex-officio Superintendent of
Police, and such other members as may be provided for by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 APPOINTMENT.
   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the President with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees. All other appointments to or promotions
within the Department shall be made by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 09-106, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 33.03 RANK.
   The Chief of Police shall be the head of the Department and have supervision
over all officers and members thereof. Following him or her in rank shall be
the Captain, the lieutenants and police officers in order of seniority in each
group.
(Prior Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04 TENURE.
   The Chief of Police shall serve for a term of one year and may be removed in
the manner provided for the removal of officers.
(Prior Code, § 33.04)
§ 33.05 DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall be the commanding officer of the police force and
shall have control of the assignment of all members of the force and the
direction and supervision of police work in the village, including any special
police officers under his or her command. The Chief of Police shall be
responsible for the control and regulation of all equipment assigned to or
under the control of the Police Department. The Chief of Police shall serve all
notifications in writing, when ordered by the Village Board. The Chief of
Police shall perform all such other duties as shall be prescribed by ordinance
or by order of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 05-103, passed 6-6-2005)
§ 33.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of the Police Department may make or prescribe such rules and
regulations as he or she shall deem advisable; such rules, when approved by the
Board of Trustees, shall be binding on such members. Such rules and regulations
may cover, besides the conduct of the members, uniforms and equipment to be
worn or carried, hours of service, vacations and all other similar matters
necessary or desirable for the better efficiency of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.06)
§ 33.07 CALL FOR ASSISTANCE.
   The Village President or any police officer of the village may at any time
call upon any able-bodied person above the age of 21 years to aid him or her in
arresting or taking into custody any person guilty of having committed an
unlawful act, or charged therewith, or to aid such officer in preventing the
commission of an unlawful act. No one shall refuse or neglect to give such aid
or assistance when so directed.
(Prior Code, § 33.07)
§ 33.08 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of all of the ordinances of the village and all statutes applicable
therein; and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law arrest
violators thereof.
(Prior Code, § 33.08)
§ 33.09 POWER OF ARREST; PRESIDENT AND VILLAGE BOARD.
   As provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25, the President and Board of Trustees
shall have the power: to arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without
process, all persons who break the peace, or are found violating any municipal
ordinance or any criminal law of the state; to commit arrested persons for
examination; if necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody overnight or
Sunday in any safe place, or until they can be brought before the proper
magistrate; and to exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace that
the village authorities may prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 33.09)
§ 33.10 SERVING PROCESS.
   No member of the Police Department, except the Chief, shall serve any
process, except on command of the Chief of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.11 CONDUCT OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to conduct
himself or herself in a proper and law abiding manner, at all times, and to
avoid the use of unnecessary force. Each member of the Department shall obey
the orders and directions of his or her superior.
(Prior Code, § 33.11)
§ 33.12 WITNESS FEES.
   Every member of the Police Department shall appear as a witness whenever
this is necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or of any
state or federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service
as witness in any action or suit to which the village is a party; any fees paid
for such services shall be turned over to the Chief, who shall deposit the same
with the Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.13 STOLEN PROPERTY; CUSTODY OF.
   The Chief of Police shall have the custody of all lost, abandoned or stolen
property recovered in the village.
(Prior Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.14 REWARDS.
   It shall be cause of removal for any member of the force to receive a reward
or present for services rendered in the due discharge of his or her duty
without the permission of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.15 SPECIAL POLICE.
   Any person of good character having duties which require it may be appointed
a special police officer by the President; provided that, except upon
authorization by the Board of Trustees, no such special police officer shall be
entitled to any compensation from the village, nor shall such special police
officer be considered an employee of the village by reason of such appointment.
Special police officers shall obey all rules of the Police Department
applicable to them and may be deprived of their appointments by the Chief at
any time.
(Prior Code, § 33.15)
§  33.16 HIRING STANDARDS FOR PART-TIME OFFICERS.
   (A)   Employment. The village may employ part-time police officers from time
to time as it deems necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the village’s Police Department, but the number of hours a
part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
state’s Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the rules and
requirements of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (4)   Possess a valid state driver’s license;
      (5)   Possess no prior felony convictions; and
      (6)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in
said employment and may be removed by the village authorities at any time.
Part-time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general
orders issued by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.16) (Ord. 97-104, passed 10-6-1997; Ord. 12-103, passed 5-7-
2012)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCIES
Section
   
34.01   Establishment; composition
   
34.02   Coordinator; appointment; responsibilities; absence of
   
34.03   Functions
   
34.04   Mobile support team
   
34.05   Mutual aid agreement
   
34.06   Disaster emergency declared by Governor
   
34.07   Compensation
   
34.08   Reimbursement by state
   
34.09   Purchases and expenditures
   
34.10   Oath
   
34.11   Office space
   
34.12   Appropriation; levy of taxes
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the village’s Emergency Services and Disaster
Agencies, hereinafter referred to as ESDA, to prevent, minimize, repair and
alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage or other hostile action, or from natural or human-made disaster, in
accordance with 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq., the state’s Emergency Management Agency
Act.
   (B)   This ESDA shall consist of the Coordinator and such additional members
as may be selected by the Coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 34.01)
§ 34.02 COORDINATOR; APPOINTMENT; RESPONSIBILITIES; ABSENCE OF.
   (A)   The Coordinator of the village’s ESDA shall be appointed by the
Village President and shall serve until removed by same.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the Village President as provided by statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as the Coordinator, the Village President or any person designated by him or
her shall be and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34.02)
§ 34.03 FUNCTIONS.
   The village’s ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the village as
shall be prescribed in and by the state’s ESDA plan and program prepared by the
Governor, and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Governor and, in addition, shall perform such duties outside the corporate
limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other
political subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as
provided by the state’s ESDA Act of 1975, being 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 34.03)
§ 34.04 MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any members of the village’s ESDA organization may be
designated as members of a mobile support team created by the Director of the
state’s ESDA as provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the village’s ESDA organization.
   (C)   (1)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a village employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the state’s Director,
shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and
immunities incident to such employment or office.
      (2)   Any such member who is not a paid officer or employee of the
village, while so serving, shall receive from the state reasonable compensation
as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 34.04)
§ 34.05 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT.
   The Coordinator of ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other
cities or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the Village President and by the
state’s Director of ESDA.
(Prior Code, § 34.05)
§ 34.06 DISASTER EMERGENCY DECLARED BY GOVERNOR.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from human-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the village’s ESDA
to cooperate fully with the state’s ESDA and with the Governor in the exercise
of emergency powers as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 34.06)
§ 34.07 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the state’s Director of ESDA shall receive for the time
spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held; members who are not such city employees or officers shall receive for
such training time such compensation as may be established by the Village
President.
(Prior Code, § 34.07)
§ 34.08 REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the state’s Director of ESDA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the village in response to a call by the Governor or state’s Director
of ESDA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state
incident to ESDA activities as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 34.08)
§ 34.09 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Village President may, on recommendation of the village’s
Coordinator of ESDA, authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the
city in a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the
explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public
health and safety, protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims
in the case of such disaster or from human-made or natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the village’s
Coordinator of ESDA is authorized, on behalf of the village to procure such
services, supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for such
purposes, in view of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or
formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to city contracts or
obligations, as authorized by the state’s ESDA Act of 1975, being 20 ILCS 3305/
1 et seq.; provided that, if the Village President meets at such time, he or
she shall act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(Prior Code, § 34.09)
§ 34.10 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the village’s ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the
following oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
 
I,                          , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend and bear
true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Illinois, and the territory, institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to
enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of
any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States
or of this State by force or violence; and that during such time as I am affiliated with the Village of
Tremont ESDA organization, I will not advocate, nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state by
force or violence.
 
(Prior Code, § 34.10)
§ 34.11 OFFICE SPACE.
   The Village President is authorized to designate space in a city building,
or elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Village President for the village’s
ESDA as its office.
(Prior Code, § 34.11)
§ 34.12 APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The Village Board may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner
provided by law, being 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq., and may levy in addition for
ESDA purposes only, a tax as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 34.12)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
35.001   Imposition of tax
   
35.002   Returns to be filed
   
35.003   Payment
Service Occupation Tax
   
35.015   Imposition of tax
   
35.016   Returns to be filed
   
35.017   Payment
Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
   
35.030   Imposition of tax
   
35.031   Compliance with provisions required
   
35.032   Account rendered; payments
Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
35.045   Imposition of tax; rate
   
35.046   Collection of tax by retailers
Hotel Tax
   
35.060   Purpose
   
35.061   Definitions
   
35.062   Tax imposed
   
35.063   Information to be furnished
   
35.064   Filing of return
   
35.065   Records
   
35.066   Enforcement
   
35.067   Establishment of Fund
   
35.068   Indebtedness
Cable/Video Service Provider Fee
   
35.080   Definitions
   
35.081   Fee imposed
   
35.082   Applicable principles
   
35.083   No impact on other taxes due from holder
   
35.084   Audits
   
35.085   Late fees/payments
Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
   
35.100   Definitions
   
35.101   Simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed
   
35.102   Collection of tax by retailers
   
35.103   Returns to Department
   
35.104   Resellers
Grocery Sales Tax
   
35.120   Municipal grocery retailers’ occupation tax Imposed
   
35.121   Municipal grocery service occupation tax
   
35.122   Illinois Department of Revenue to administer both taxes
Cross-reference:
   Business Regulations, see Title XI
   General Policies, see
Ch. 36
RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
§ 35.001 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in the village at the rate of 1% of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.
(Prior Code, § 35.01)
§ 35.002 RETURNS TO BE FILED.
   Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall file on or
before the last day of each calendar month the report to the state’s Department
of Revenue required by § 3 of the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act.
(Prior Code, § 35.02)
§ 35.003 PAYMENT.
   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state’s
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(Prior Code, § 35.03)
SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
§ 35.015 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the village in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost price of all
tangible personal property transferred by the serviceperson, either in the form
of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident to a
sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5.
(Prior Code, § 35.15)
§ 35.016 RETURNS TO BE FILED.
   Every supplier or serviceperson required to account for municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of the village shall file, on or before the last
day of each calendar month, the report to the state’s Department of Revenue
required by § 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 35.16)
§ 35.017 PAYMENT.
   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state’s
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from transfers of tangible personal property or real estate incident
to a sale of service during the preceding month.
(Prior Code, § 35.17)
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
§ 35.030 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   Any corporation, company or association, not incorporated under the laws of
the state, engaging in the village in effecting or transacting any business of
fire insurance, shall pay to the Village Treasurer for the maintenance, use and
benefit of the village’s Fire Department a sum equal in amount to 2% per annum
of the gross receipts received as premiums upon fire insurance policies by any
and all agents of such corporation, company or association, during the year
ending on July 1 of each year, for any insurance effected or agreed to be
effected on property located in the village by or with such corporation,
company or association during such year.
(Prior Code, § 35.30)
§ 35.031 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any such corporation, company or association, not
incorporated under the laws of the state, to engage in the village in effecting
fire insurance, or to transact any business of fire insurance in the village,
while in default by not fully complying with any of the requirements of this
subchapter, and until such requirements shall have been fully complied with;
but this provision shall not relieve any company, corporation or association
from the payment of any risk that may be undertaken in violation of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.032 ACCOUNT RENDERED; PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Every person acting in the village as agent for or on behalf of any
such corporation, company or association shall, on or before July 15 of each
and every year, render to the Village Clerk a full, true and just account
verified by his or her oath of all premiums upon fire insurance policies which,
during the year ending July 1 preceding such report, shall have been received
by him or her, or by some other person for him or her in behalf of any such
corporation, company or association on property located within the village.
Such agent shall also, at the time of rendering the aforesaid report, pay to
the Village Treasurer the sum of money for which, each such corporation,
company or association represented by him or her is chargeable, by virtue of
the provisions of this subchapter. The sum of money for which such corporation,
company or association is so chargeable, may be recovered of it or its agents
or agent by an action in the name of and for the use of the village as for
money had and received.
   (B)   No insurance agent in the village shall have any insurance business or
dealings with any corporation, company or association not incorporated under
the laws of the state, which shall be in default for not reporting or making
payments as hereinabove provided, until it shall have complied with all the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.32)
CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
§ 35.045 IMPOSITION OF TAX; RATE.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the village at the rate of 3%
of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that business.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of §
8-11-22 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22).
(Ord. 19-111, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 35.046 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be remitted by such retailer
to the State Department of Revenue. Any tax required to be collected pursuant
to or as authorized by this subchapter and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the State Department of Revenue shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller’s tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the State Department
of Revenue. The State Department of Revenue shall have full power to administer
and enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 19-111, passed 9-16-2019)
HOTEL TAX
§ 35.060 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to generate revenue to be placed in a fund
to generate tourism through the promotion of lodging restaurants, attraction,
conventions, expositions and theatrical, sport, cultural and other similar
activities.
(Ord. 18-107, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 35.061 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL. Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
The term includes, but is not limited to, inns, motels, tourist homes or
courts, lodging houses, rooming houses, apartment houses, bed-and-breakfast
houses and short-term rental units.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room or rooms in a hotel for any purpose, or the right to the use or
possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession of the room or rooms.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT. Any person who occupies or has the right to occupy any
room or rooms in a hotel for at least 30 consecutive days for his or her own
personal use unrelated to the conducting of any business or occupation.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation or a receiver, executor,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   RENT or RENTAL. The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
   RENTER. Any person who pays for the privilege of using or occupying a hotel
room for the period for which payment is made.
   ROOM(S). Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
   VILLAGE CLERK. The Village Clerk of the Village of Tremont, Illinois.
   VILLAGE TREASURER. The Village Treasurer of the Village of Tremont,
Illinois.
(Ord. 18-107, passed 4-2-2018; Ord. 22-117, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 35.062 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed a tax upon all persons, firms or
corporations engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a
hotel which is located within the corporate limits of the village at a rate of
5% of the gross rental receipts from such renting, leasing or letting for any
purpose for each 24-hour period or portion thereof, excluding, however, from
the gross rental receipts the proceeds of such rents, leasing or letting to
permanent residents. The tax imposed herein shall be in addition to any and all
other taxes and charges applicable to such hotels, but such other taxes and
charges shall not be construed to be a part of the gross rental receipts upon
which this tax is levied.
   (B)   The ultimate incidents of an liability for payment of the tax levied
herein is upon the person engage in the business of leasing, renting or letting
said rooms. Such hotel owners and operators may reimburse themselves for their
tax liability for this tax by separately stating such lax as an additional
charge to the lessee or renter, which charge may be stated in combination as a
single amount, with the state tax imposed under the Hotel Operators’ Occupation
Tax Act, as provided for in 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq. No tax is imposed based upon
receipts from any permanent residents of any hotel. No person engaged in the
business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel shall reimburse
himself or herself or charge for the imposition of this tax at a rate higher
than the tax imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 18-107, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 35.063 INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this division, on or before the first day of
each calendar month, every person engaged in the business of renting, leasing
or letting rooms in a hotel within the village during the preceding calendar
month shall file a return with the Village Treasurer, on forms to be supplied
by the Village Clerk, stating:
   (A)   The name of the operator;
   (B)   His or her residence address and the address of the principal place of
business from which he or she engages in the business of renting, leasing or
letting rooms in a hotel in the village;
   (C)   Total amount of rental receipts received by him or her during the
preceding calendar month from renting, leasing or letting rooms to permanent
residents during such preceding calendar months;
   (D)   Total amount of rental received by him or her during the preceding
calendar month from renting, leasing or letting rooms to permanent residents
during each preceding calendar months:
   (E)   Total amount of other exclusions from gross rental receipts as allowed
by this subchapter;
   (F)   Gross rental receipts which were received by him or her during the
preceding calendar month and upon the basis of which the tax is imposed:
   (G)   The amount of the tax due;
   (H)   The amount of penalty due, if any; and
   (I)   Such other reasonable information as may from time to time be required
by the Village Treasurer.
(Ord. 18-107, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 35.064 FILING OF RETURN.
   The person subject to tax shall also transmit to the Village Treasurer with
the return required by this paragraph the amount of the tax and penalties, if
any, due as shown by said return required by this subchapter the amount of the
tax and penalties, if any, due as shown by said return. Such person shall also
file with the Village Treasurer, not later than five business days after said
documents are transmitted to the state, copies of all hotel operator’s
occupation tax returns, as are required by the provisions of the Hotel
Operators’ Occupation Tax Act, 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.
(Ord. 18-107, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 35.065 RECORDS.
   Any person engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting of hotel
rooms shall maintain complete and accurate books and records, including a daily
sheet showing the gross receipts for the hotel rentals for the day reported.
(Ord. 18-107, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 35.066 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   For the purposes of enforcing and administering this subchapter, the
Village Treasurer, or such agents as are designated by the Village Treasurer,
shall, after providing reasonable notice, have access during normal business
hours to the books and records of persons and businesses subject to this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Village Treasurer, or such agents as are designated by the Village
Treasurer, shall, at least annually, inspect said books and records and shall
file a written report of his or her findings with the City Council no later
than April 1 of each year.
(Ord. 18-107, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 35.067 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.
   There is hereby created the Tremont Tourism and Convention Promotion Fund
into which the Village Treasurer shall, by the twentieth day of each month,
place the proceeds resulting from the previous month’s collection of this hotel
tax. The monies in this Fund may be utilized solely and exclusively for the
purpose of promoting tourism and conventions or otherwise to attract
nonresident visitors to the village.
(Ord. 18-107, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 35.068 INDEBTEDNESS.
   This tax shall not in any manner constitute and indebtedness by the village
subject to any limitation imposed by statute or otherwise.
(Ord. 18-107, passed 4-2-2018)
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
§ 35.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE SERVICES. As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   COMMISSION. The Illinois Commerce Commission.
   GROSS REVENUES. All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder’s cable service or video service area within
the village.
      (1)   GROSS REVENUES shall include the following:
         (a)   Recurring charges for cable or video service;
         (b)   Event-based charges for cable service or video service,
including, but not limited to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges;
         (c)   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment;
         (d)   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation and
repair charges;
         (e)   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service
or video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges;
         (f)   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges
and other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent
payments;
         (g)   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement;
         (h)   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder’s network,
such as a home shopping or similar channel, subject to division (1)(i) of this
definition below;
         (i)   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled
or integrated functionally with other services, capabilities or applications,
the portion of the holder’s revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business; and
         (j)   The service provider fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b).
      (2)   GROSS REVENUES do not include any of the following:
         (a)   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad
debt, subject to 220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi);
         (b)   Refunds, discounts or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state-issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service;
         (c)   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to non-
cable service or non-video service in accordance with the holder’s books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards or orders;
         (d)   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which
the purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the
purchaser’s subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies, in writing, that
it will resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220
ILCS 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service;
         (e)   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the
subscribers or the transaction by a city, state, federal or any other
governmental entity and collected by the holder of the state-issued
authorization and required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales
and use taxes;
         (f)   Security deposits collected from subscribers; and
         (g)   Amounts paid by subscribers to home shopping channels or similar
vendors for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part
of the cable service or video service.
      (3)   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of GROSS REVENUES to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b) which would otherwise be
paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the Commission pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-
401.
   SERVICE. The provision of “cable service” or “video service” to subscribers
and the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the Commission
pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE. The amount paid under this section and 220 ILCS 5/21-
801 by the holder to a village for the service areas within its territorial
jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE. Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right-of-way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(d) or any video
programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables users to
access content, information, electronic mail or other services offered over the
public Internet.
(Ord. 21-121, passed - -2021)
§ 35.081 FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   Fee imposed. A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   (B)   Amount of fee. The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be 5% of the
holder’s gross revenues.
   (C)   Notice to the village. The holder shall notify the village at least
ten days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the village.
   (D)   Holder’s liability. The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder’s liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following 30 days after receipt of the
ordinance adopting this section by the holder. The ordinance adopting this
section shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the
holder’s application notice sent pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)(6) to the
village.
   (E)   Payment date. The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   (F)   Exemption. The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid.
   (G)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-301(c) with credit
for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the amount of such
credit from the fees that operator owes under this section.
(Ord. 21-121, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.082 APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES.
   All determinations and calculations under this subchapter shall be made
pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
(Ord. 21-121, passed - -2021)
§ 35.083 NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to exempt a holder
from any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax
that is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with
respect to cable service or video service. A state-issued authorization shall
not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
village’s simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it
applies to any telephone service provided by the holder. A state-issued
authorization shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to
payment of the local unit of government’s 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges.
(Ord. 21-121, passed - -2021)
§ 35.084 AUDITS.
   (A)   Audit requirement. The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder’s books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et
seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an accord that
the amounts are correct.
   (B)   Additional payments. Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within 30 days after the municipality’s submission of an invoice for the
sum.
(Ord. 21-121, passed - -2021)
§ 35.085 LATE FEES/PAYMENTS.
   All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this municipality pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill
of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
(Ord. 21-121, passed - -2021)
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
§ 35.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMOUNT PAID. The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in this
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT. The Illinois Department of Revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE. The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS
CHARGES for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
termination point within this municipality and charges for the portion of the
inter-office channels provided within this municipality. Charges for that
portion of the inter-office channel connecting two or more channel termination
points, one or more of which is located within the jurisdictional boundary of
this municipality, shall be determined by the retailer by multiplying an amount
equal to the total charge for the inter-office channel by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of channel termination points that are located
within the jurisdictional boundary of the municipality and the denominator of
which is the total number of channel termination points connected by the inter-
office channel. However, GROSS CHARGE shall not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to:
         (a)   The tax imposed by this subchapter;
         (b)   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act;
         (c)   The tax imposed by § 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (d)   911 surcharges; or
         (e)   Charges added to customers' bills pursuant to the provisions of
§§ 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, as amended, or any similar
charges added to customers' bills by retailers who are not subject to rate
regulation by the Illinois Commerce Commission for the purpose of recovering
any of the tax liabilities or other amounts specified in those provisions of
the Public Utilities Act;
      (2)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of
such municipality;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under § 9-222.1
of the Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the
period of time specified by the Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity;
      (6)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this subchapter has already been paid to a retailer and only to the
extent that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation
between the corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation
rendering such service;
      (7)   Bad debts (BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable and that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      (8)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telecommunication
devices;
      (9)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act; or
      (10)   Charges for nontaxable services or telecommunications if: (i)
those charges are aggregated with other charges for telecommunications that are
taxable; (ii) those charges are not separately stated on the customer bill or
invoice; and (iii) the retailer can reasonable identify the nontaxable charges
on the retailer's books and records kept in the regular course of business. If
the nontaxable charges cannot reasonably be identified, the gross charge from
the sale of both taxable and nontaxable services of telecommunications billed
on a combined basis shall be attributed to the taxable services or
telecommunications. The burden of proving nontaxable charges shall be on the
retailer of the telecommunications.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political
subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in the business of making sales at
retail as defined in this section. The Department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the Department, furnishes adequate security to insure collection and payment
of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
Department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. Includes any
retailer having or maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary,
an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales office,
warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other representative
operating within this state under the authority of the retailer or its
subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or other
representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether such
retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act. For air-to-ground
systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER. A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees,
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this subchapter.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this subchapter, PRIVATE LINE
means a dedicated non-traffic sensitive service for a single customer that
entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel
or group of channels from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of inter-
company facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end
telecommunications service shall be non-taxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this subchapter. For purposes of this
subchapter, PREPAID TELEPHONE CALLING ARRANGEMENTS means that term as defined
in § 2-27 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act.
(Ord. 22-112, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 35.101 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   (A)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6%
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multi-municipal taxation of the act or privilege
that is subject to taxation under this division, any taxpayer, upon proof that
the taxpayer has paid a tax in another municipality on that event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
subchapter to the extent of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in the
municipality that was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
municipal tax.
   (B)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6%
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multi-state or multi-municipal taxation of the act
or privilege that is subject to taxation under this division, any taxpayer,
upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state or municipality in
this state on such event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted
pursuant to or authorized by this section to the extent of the amount of such
tax properly due and paid in such other state or such tax properly due and paid
in another municipality in this state which was not previously allowed as a
credit against any other state or local tax in this state.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this subchapter is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality.
(Ord. 22-112, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 35.102 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the Department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this subchapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the Department. The tax authorized by this subchapter
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
Department in the manner provided by the Department.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this subchapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
(Ord. 22-112, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 35.103 RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT.
   On or before the last day of February, 2023, and on or before the last day
of every month thereafter, the tax imposed under this subchapter on
telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the Department pursuant to the Illinois Simplified
Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act (35 ILCS 636/5-50) and any accompanying
rules and regulations created by the Department to implement the Act.
(Ord. 22-112, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 35.104 RESELLERS.
   (A)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
Department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the Department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this subchapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the Department may reasonably require.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
Department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax-free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege
of originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made
tax-free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an
active resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is non-taxable because of being a sale for resale.
(Ord. 22-112, passed 8-15-2022)
GROCERY SALES TAX
§ 35.120 MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
groceries at retail in this municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
subchapter is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-24.
(Ord. 25-105, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 35.121 MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales
of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of
this tax shall be the same rate identified in §
35.120. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the
provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-24.
(Ord. 25-105, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 35.122 ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TO ADMINISTER BOTH TAXES.
   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 25-105, passed 3-3-2025)
CHAPTER 36: GENERAL POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
§ 36.01 STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of § 5-15 (5 ILCS 430/5-15) and Art. 10 (5 ILCS 430/
10-10 through 10-40) of the state’s Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS
430/1-1 et seq., (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section) are
hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees
of the village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any office or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall be
defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   (I)   If the state’s Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the state’s
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the Act if found unconstitutional
by the state’s Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the state’s Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; provided, however, that,
part of this section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the village.
(Prior Code, § 36.01) (Ord. 04-109, passed 5-3-2004)
CHAPTER 37: INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY
Section
   
37.01   Establishment and regulations
§ 37.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ACT. The Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act (65 ILCS 5/11-74.4 et
seq.), as amended from time to time.
      INTERESTED PARTY.
         (a)   Any organization active within the village;
         (b)   Any resident of the village; and
         (c)   Any other entity or person otherwise entitled under the Act to
register in a specific registry who has registered in such registry and whose
registration has not been terminated in accordance with these rules.
      REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA. A redevelopment project area that:
         (a)   Is intended to qualify (or has subsequently qualified) as a
“redevelopment project area” under the Act; and
         (b)   Is subject to the interested parties registry requirements of
the Act.
      REGISTRATION FORM. The form approved by the village for initial or
renewal registration in a registry.
      REGISTRY. An interested parties registry established by the village
pursuant to the Act.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Tremont.
   (B)   Establishment of registry. The village shall establish a separate
interested parties registry for each redevelopment project area, whether
existing as of the date of the adoption of these rules or hereafter
established. The village shall establish a new registry whenever it has
identified an area for study and possible designation as a redevelopment
project area. In any event, the process of establishing the new registry must
be completed prior to the deadline for sending any of the notices required
hereby or any other notices required by the Act with respect to the proposed
redevelopment project area.
   (C)   Maintenance of registry. The registries shall be maintained by the
Clerk or his or her designee.
   (D)   Registration by residents. An individual seeking to register as an
interested party with respect to a redevelopment project area must complete and
submit a registration form to the Clerk. Such individual must also submit a
copy of a current driver’s license, lease, utility bill, financial statement or
such other evidence as may be acceptable to the Clerk to establish the
individual’s current village residency.
   (E)   Registration by organizations. All organizations seeking to register
as interested party with respect to a redevelopment project area must complete
and submit a registration form to the Clerk. Such organization must also submit
a copy of a one-page statement describing the organization’s current operations
in the village.
   (F)   Determination of eligibility. All individuals and organizations whose
registration form and supporting documentation complies with these rules shall
be registered in the applicable registry within ten business days of the
Clerk’s receipt of all such documents. The Clerk shall provide written notice
to the registrant confirming such registration. Upon registration, interested
parties shall be entitled to receive all notices and documents required to be
delivered under these rules or as otherwise required under the Act with respect
to the applicable redevelopment project area. If the Clerk determines that a
registrant’s registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or
does not comply with these rules, the Clerk shall give written notice to the
registrant specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to
correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and supporting
documentation.
   (G)   Renewal and termination. An interested party’s registration shall
remain effective for a period of three years. At any time after such three-year
period, the Clerk may provide written notice by regular mail to the interested
party stating that such registration shall terminate unless the interested
party renews such registration within 30 days of the Clerk’s mailing of written
notice. To renew such registration, the interested party shall, within such 30-
day period, complete and submit a registration form and supporting
documentation. The registration of all individuals and organizations whose
registration form and supporting documentation is submitted in a timely manner
and complies with these rules shall be renewed for an additional consecutive
three-year period. If the Clerk determines that a registrant’s registration
form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does not comply with
these rules, the Clerk shall give written notice to the registrant, at the
address specified on the registration form submitted by such registrant,
specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to correct any
defects and resubmit a new registration form and supporting documentation
within 30 days of the receipt of the Clerk’s notice. If all defects are not
corrected within 30 days of the interested party’s receipt of the Clerk’s
notice, the interested party’s registration shall be terminated. Any interested
party whose registration is terminated shall be entitled to register again as
if a first-time registrant.
   (H)   Amendment to registration. An interested party shall amend its
registration if its mailing address or any information relevant to its
eligibility changes by giving written notice to the Clerk by certified mail.
Upon receipt of such notice, the Clerk shall revise the applicable registry
accordingly. If the interested party is no longer eligible to be registered in
the registry, its registration shall be terminated as set forth above.
   (I)   Registries available for public inspection. Each registry shall be
available for public inspection during normal office hours of the Clerk’s
office. The registry shall include the name, address and telephone number of
each interested party and, for organizations, the name and phone number of a
designated contact person.
   (J)   Notices to be sent to interested parties. Interested parties shall be
sent the following notices and any other notices required under the Act with
respect to the applicable redevelopment project area.
      (1)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(a) of the Act, notice of the
availability of a proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including
how to obtain this information, such notice shall be sent by mail within a
reasonable period of time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing the public
hearing for the proposed redevelopment plan.
      (2)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(a) of the Act, notice of changes to
proposed redevelopment plans that do not: add additional parcels of property to
the proposed redevelopment project area; substantially affect the general land
uses proposed in the redevelopment plan; substantially change the nature of or
extend the life of the redevelopment project; or increase the number of low or
very low income households to be displaced from the redevelopment project area;
provided that, measured from the time of creation of the redevelopment project
area the total displacement of households will exceed ten; such notice shall be
sent by mail not later than ten days following the village’s adoption by
ordinance of such changes.
      (3)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(c) of the Act, notice of amendments
to previously approved redevelopment plans that do not: add additional parcels
of property to the redevelopment project area; substantially affect the general
land uses in the redevelopment plan; substantially change the nature of the
redevelopment project; increase the total estimated redevelopment project costs
set out in the redevelopment plan by more than 5% after adjustments for
inflation from the date the plan was adopted; add additional redevelopment
project costs to the itemized list of redevelopment project costs wet out in
the redevelopment plan; or increase the number of low or very low income
households to be displaced from the redevelopment project area; provided that,
measured from the time of creation of the redevelopment project area the total
displacement of households will exceed ten; such notice shall be sent by mail
not later than ten days following the village’s adoption by ordinance of any
such amendment.
      (4)   Pursuant to 64 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(d)(9) of the Act for redevelopment
plans or projects that would result in the displacement of residents from ten
or more inhabited residential units that contain 75 or more inhabited
residential units, notice of the availability of this information, including
how to obtain the report, required by 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(d)(9) of the Act.
Such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period of time after
completion of the certified audit report.
      (5)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-6(e) of the Act, notice of the
preliminary public meeting required under the Act for a proposed redevelopment
project area that will result in the displacement of ten or more inhabited
residential units or which will contain 75 or more inhabited residential units,
such notice shall be sent by certified mail not less than 15 days before the
date of such preliminary public meeting.
   (K)   Non-interference. These rules shall not be used to prohibit or
otherwise interfere with the ability of eligible organizations and individuals
to register for receipt of information to which they are entitled under the
Act.
   (L)   Amendment of rules. These rules may be amended by the village subject
to and consistent with the requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 04-103, passed 2-16-2004)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Removal of garbage; specifications for receptacles
   
50.03   Accumulation of garbage and refuse prohibited
   
50.04   Depositing materials in public place and the like prohibited
   
50.05   Offensive substances
   
50.06   Dumping garbage prohibited
   
50.07   Dumpsters
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DUMPSTER. Any trash, refuse or debris container except those containers
which have a maximum capacity of 96 gallons or less.
   GARBAGE. Includes all organic, household or kitchen waste such as unused
food and food residues, and any paper used for wrapping.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 22-104, passed - -2022)
§ 50.02 REMOVAL OF GARBAGE; SPECIFICATIONS FOR RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Garbage shall be removed from the premises at least once each week
throughout all the months of the year.
   (B)   Garbage receptacles must be of galvanized metal with close-fitting
covers, or of other material practical for such purposes, and the receptacles
shall be water-tight and shall have a capacity of not to exceed 20 gallons, and
shall be kept in a sanitary condition. Ashes and other waste materials shall be
placed in containers suitable for handling.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   The owner, occupant or lessee of any premises in the village shall remove
from the premises or otherwise dispose of all garbage, dead rodents, animals or
fowls, ashes, tin cans, metal ware, broken glass, crockery, stoneware, manure
and all refuse and rubbish of every description whatsoever and shall keep the
rodents, animals or fowls, ashes, tin cans, metal ware, broken glass, crockery,
stoneware, manure and all refuse and rubbish of every description whatsoever.
Dumping of rubbish on vacant property or on streets, alleys or other public
places is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 50.05) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 DEPOSITING MATERIALS IN PUBLIC PLACE AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast, place, sweep or deposit within
the limits of the village any garbage or other waste matter or rubbish in such
a manner that it may be carried or deposited by the action of the sun, wind,
rain or snow, into or upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or other
public place, or into any occupied or unoccupied premises within the limits of
the village.
(Prior Code, § 50.06) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 OFFENSIVE SUBSTANCES.
   No pile or deposit of manure, garbage, miscellaneous waste or refuse of any
kind whatsoever, nor accumulation of any offensive or nauseous substance, shall
be made within the limits of the village, nor shall any person unload,
discharge or put upon the right-of-way of any railroad, street, alley or public
place within the village, any manure, garbage, miscellaneous waste, refuse or
offensive or nauseous substance, or shall any vehicles loaded with or having
upon them any such substance or substances, be allowed to remain or stand or
park on or along any railroad, street, alley or other public place within the
limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 50.07) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 DUMPING GARBAGE PROHIBITED.
   No garbage or waste material shall be dumped within the village limits, but
must be hauled to a place outside the village limits, at a distance which will
not create a nuisance to any resident within the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 50.08) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   Prohibition. Dumpsters shall not be placed on any property within the
village used as a single family home or duplex except in accordance with this
section.
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   A dumpster shall not be located on or placed in public property or
the public right-of-way without the express written consent of the village.
      (2)   A dumpster may be located at a property for a period not to exceed
30 calendar days.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (B)(2) above, use of a dumpster is
permitted for periods of time exceeding 30 calendar days if a building permit
has been issued for the property, the permit remains in good standing, the
dumpster is not used for perishable refuse and construction work is continuing.
Periods of inactivity greater than 30 days shall be a presumption of the lack
of active work.
   (C)   Maintenance.
      (1)   No junk or trash shall be maintained outside or adjacent to the
dumpster.
      (2)   Dumpsters shall be removed within 14 days after they are filled to
capacity. A dumpster is filled to capacity, within the meaning of this section,
when it is filled to the extent that junk, trash, garbage, refuse or material
is clearly visible above the height of said dumpster.
      (3)   If the name and contact information of the person or entity that is
responsible for the emptying of the dumpster is not visible on the dumpster,
then the name, address and telephone number of the person or entity that is
responsible for emptying the dumpster shall be displayed on the front of the
dumpster in a weatherproof manner.
(Ord. 22-104, passed - -2022)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Quality of workmanship
   
51.003   Protection of sanitary sewer system
   
51.004   New buildings, cesspools, septic or sewage tanks
   
51.005   Sewage treatment required
   
51.006   Industrial wastes and sewage
   
51.007   Disturbing, injuring or entering sewers
   
51.008   Storm, surface and ground water
   
51.009   Sanitary sewer discharge in certain storm sewer prohibited
Licensing and Permit Provisions
   
51.020   License required; bond
   
51.021   Permit required; application
   
51.022   Permit fee
   
51.023   Forfeiture of permit or license
   
51.024   Change in plans; supplementary permit
   
51.025   Expiration of permit
Building Sewers; Connections
   
51.040   Connection mandatory; regulations to apply
   
51.041   Notice to be given to Superintendent before commencement of work
   
51.042   Sewer connections; specifications
   
51.043   Quality of materials
   
51.044   Joints and connections
   
51.045   Function of house connection and drains
   
51.046   Independent connections and drains
   
51.047   Materials for connections
   
51.048   Specifications for laying house sewer
   
51.049   Pipes to be closed
   
51.050   Back water valve
   
51.051   Inspection of connections
   
51.052   Notification of Superintendent for inspection
   
51.053   Defective work
   
51.054   Certificate of approval
   
51.055   Fees
   
51.056   Condemned materials
Public Sewers
   
51.070   Use of public sewer required
   
51.071   Prohibited substances and chemicals
   
51.072   Traps and receiving tanks
   
51.073   Use of sewers; certificate required
   
51.074   Injury to public sewer system
   
51.075   Interference with public sewer system
Cesspools, Privies, Privy Vaults
   
51.090   Construction to comply with regulations
   
51.091   Erection or maintenance of privy near other building
   
51.092   Privies in places of human habitation
   
51.093   Water-tight cesspool required
   
51.094   Contents of privies or catch basins
   
51.095   Removal; permit required
   
51.096   Disinfection
   
51.097   Depositing garbage and the like in privies
   
51.098   Wells and cisterns to be adequately covered
   
51.099   Cistern overflow pipes
Wastewater Service Charges
   
51.110   Definitions
   
51.111   Basis for wastewater service charges
   
51.112   Measurement of flow
   
51.113   Debt service charge
   
51.114   Basic user rate
   
51.115   Surcharge rate
   
51.116   Computation of surcharge
   
51.117   Computation of wastewater service charge
   
51.118   Bills
   
51.119   Collection of delinquent bills
   
51.120   [Reserved]
   
51.121   Foreclosure of lien
   
51.122   Revenues
   
51.123   Accounts
   
51.124   Notice of rates
   
51.125   Access to records
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.170   Office created
   
51.171   Duties of Superintendent of Sewers
   
51.172   Inspection; right of entry
   
51.173   Violation; revocation of certificate
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Acceptable to or accepted by the Superintendent of Public Works as
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to carry domestic sewage and such
industrial wastes as may be permitted, as well as storm and surface water.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE and SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste or discharge from toilet or
other household plumbing fixtures, wash water and dish water, interior basement
drainage and other dirty water from places of human residence, business
buildings or institutions, but not including, industrial wastes.
   EMERGENCY. A sudden and unexpected condition, the making of remedies for
which cannot be postponed until a permit has been secured without endangering
life or property.
   GROUND WATER. Water which is contained in or flows through the ground.
   HOUSE SANITARY CONNECTION and HOUSE CONNECTION. The conduit or pipe for
conveying domestic sewage from residences, human habitations, institutions,
stables, garages, business buildings or industries to the connection to a
sewer.
   HOUSE STORM DRAIN and HOUSE DRAIN. A pipe or conduit which is used to
conduct surface, storm, ground, roof and yard drainage away from any building.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Liquid wastes or wastes used in or resulting from
industrial processes.
   MANHOLE. An opening constructed on a sewer of sufficient size to permit a
human to gain access thereto.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A privately-owned sewer.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A publicly-owned sewer.
   SATISFACTORILY or UNSATISFACTORY. In a manner approved by the Superintendent
of Public Works as complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   SEPARATE SANITARY SEWER and SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry
domestic sewage and such industrial wastes as may be permitted, without the
admixture of stormwater.
   SEWAGE. Liquid waste flowing in or from residences, human habitations,
institutions, stables, garages, business buildings and industries, and it may
consist of a combination of any one or more of these, and/or with such storm
and ground water as may be admitted to or find its way into the sewers.
   SEWER. Any outside conduit, pipe or structure designed to convey sewage of
any kind and to serve two or more properties within the corporate limits of the
village, and shall include all manholes, intercepting chambers, pumping plants
and other appurtenances thereto within the corporate limits of the village.
   SEWER CONSTRUCTION WORK. The construction of any sewer for any purpose and
shall include house sanitary connections and house storm drains within the
corporate limits of the village.
   SEWERAGE.
      (1)   (Adjective.) Having to do with the collection, treatment or
disposal of sewage.
      (2)   (Noun.) The works comprising the complete system of sewers,
connections and drains within the jurisdiction of the village, including
pumping station, manholes and appurtenances thereto necessary to the
collection, treatment of disposal of sewage, including sewage treatment plants.
   SOLID WASTES. Include garbage, ashes, rags, manure waste, household food,
offal and other solids. The term ASHES, as herein employed, shall include coal,
coke, wood and the residuum resulting from the combustion of any material or
substance, and includes soot, cinders, slag and charcoal.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which is intended to carry storm and surface water and
no domestic or sanitary sewage.
   STORMWATER. The portion of rain, snow or sleet which flows off over the
surface of the ground, streets and structures into sewers and drainage channels
or into low points.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS. The person designated or appointed by the
Board of Trustees to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   VILLAGE SEWER or SEWER OF THE VILLAGE. Any sewer constructed, under
construction, or maintained within the corporate limits of the village and
shall include all manholes, intercepting chambers, pumping plants or other
appurtenances thereto.
(Prior Code, § 51.001)
§ 51.002 QUALITY OF WORKMANSHIP.
   (A)   All workmanship in connection with the construction of any sewer or
house sanitary connection or house storm drain shall be of such character as to
fully secure the results sought be obtained in all the sections of this
chapter.
   (B)   Sanitary sewers shall be a minimum of eight inches in diameter and
shall be designed in accordance with requirements of the state’s Environmental
Protection Agency (IEPA) and the village’s Sewer Department. All sewers shall
be constructed and installed in public rights-of-way or in dedicated easements.
Sanitary sewers shall be constructed of one of the following three materials:
      (1)   Extra strength vitrified clay pipe conforming to ASTM C-700 with
joints conforming to ASTM C-425;
      (2)   Ductile iron pipe conforming to AWWA C-151 and ANSI A 21.51. The
pipe shall be cement lined in accordance with AWWA C104 and ANSI A21.4. The
pipe shall be coated on the exterior with a petroleum-asphaltic coating one mil
thick. The pipe shall be Class 50; or
      (3)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic pipe conforming to ASTM - 3034.
The pipe shall have a standard dimension ratio (outside diameter divided by
wall thickness) of 35. The pipe shall have a gasketed joint with an integral
bell which is a homogenous part of the pipe. The joint shall conform to ASTM D-
3212 and the gasket shall conform to ASTM F-477.
(Prior Code, § 51.002) (Ord. 86-102, passed 4-21-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.003 PROTECTION OF SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The separate sanitary sewer system of the village was built to carry
away the domestic or sanitary sewage, the commercial sewage and, as may be
permitted, the industrial castes of the village. It was not designed to carry
any stormwater, water from air conditioning units, cooling system, surface
water or ground water. Any act which shall cause any stormwater, water from air
conditioning units, cooling system, surface water or ground water to be
conveyed to and into the sanitary sewers is herewith directly forbidden.
Furthermore, stormwater or surface water shall not be directed into any of the
sewers of the village. Such acts are directly contrary to the provisions of
this chapter and shall be subject to the penalties provided in this code.
   (B)   The sanitary or domestic sewage from all buildings in general shall be
conveyed in house sanitary connections to the public system of sanitary sewers.
Sanitary or domestic sewage shall include basement floor drainage; however,
this shall not include any storm or ground water intentionally conveyed to the
basement floor and from the basement floor to and into the sanitary sewer
system.
(Prior Code, § 51.003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 NEW BUILDINGS, CESSPOOLS, SEPTIC OR SEWAGE TANKS.
   (A)   No cesspool, septic or other sewage tank shall be constructed
hereafter on property to which a public sanitary sewer is accessible.
   (B)   No septic tank or cesspool hereafter constructed shall be connected in
any way, directly or indirectly, to the public sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 51.004) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005 SEWAGE TREATMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Where liquid wastes from any source are not discharged into a public
sewer, such wastes shall be treated or disposed of so as not to endanger or
contaminate any water supply that is or may be used for drinking or domestic
purposes or for bathing or so as not to create any nuisance or unsanitary
conditions which shall be considered either by the Superintendent of Public
Works or the Health Department of the village as dangerous and unhealthy to the
residents and citizens of the village.
   (B)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having a
five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater (BOD) than 300 parts per million by
weight of suspended solids (SS), or containing more than 350 parts per million
by weight of suspended solids or have an average daily flow greater than 2% of
the review and approval of the village. Where necessary, the owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to, reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million and the
suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight, or reduce objectionable
characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits or control the
quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans,
specifications and any other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
Engineer and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until the
approval is obtained in writing.
(Prior Code, § 51.005) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.006 INDUSTRIAL WASTES AND SEWAGE.
   No person shall discharge or cause or permit the discharge of industrial
wastes into any public sewer system, which directly or indirectly discharges
into the sewer system of the village without the approval of the Superintendent
of Public Works and the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 51.006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 DISTURBING, INJURING OR ENTERING SEWERS.
   No person, other than an authorized village employee, shall disturb, or
enter any public sewer, manhole, catch basin or other part of the public sewer
system without a written permit from the Superintendent of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 51.007) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.008 STORM, SURFACE AND GROUND WATER.
   No roofs or outside areas of any kind shall be drained into any house
connection which drains into a sewer and no roof downspouts or conductors shall
in any case be discharged directly or indirectly into the house connection and
thence into a sewer the village.
(Prior Code, § 51.008) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.009 SANITARY SEWER DISCHARGE IN CERTAIN STORM SEWER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   (B)   Discharge prohibited. Persons are prohibited from discharging sanitary
sewage and industrial wastewater into any storm sewers constructed as a part of
the improvement on (FAP Route 406, Illinois Route 121, Section 90-107-1) Pearl
Street (Illinois Route 9) from Chestnut Street to the eastern corporate limits
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 51.009) (Ord. 88-111, passed 12-5-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
§ 51.020 LICENSE REQUIRED; BOND.
   (A)   Any persons, other than the actual bona fide owner of the premises
involved, who desires to engage or who shall hereafter engage at any time in
the construction, alteration or repair of any sewer, sanitary connection or
storm drain for any other person in the village, shall make application to the
Superintendent of Public Works for a license before commencing such work, and
shall deliver to the Superintendent of Public Works a general bond, or a
certificate addressed to the village, certifying that such applicant is insured
under a general bond or other instrument in the penal sum equal to 125% of the
estimated cost of the work to be performed. The bond or certificate shall
indemnify and save the village harmless of and from all liability for damages
to persons or property by reason of or resulting directly or indirectly from
the construction, alteration, maintenance or repair by such person of any
sewer, sanitary connection or storm drain or any work or act of omission or
commission incidental thereto or in connection therewith. The bond or
certificate shall also be conditioned upon the conformance by such applicant
with all the conditions and requirements of the provisions of this code, for
performing such work, and conditioned also upon the restoration by such
applicant of the street, alley, sidewalk and pavement disturbed by him or her
so as to leave the same in as good before the work was undertaken. Such bond or
certificate shall be signed by the applicant for such license, and by the
surety or sureties on such bond or instrument or indemnification. Upon receipt
of the bond or certificate by the Superintendent of Public Works, it shall be
the duty of the Superintendent of Public Works to present such bond or
certificate to the Board of Trustees of the next regular meeting of the Board
or at special meeting called for that purpose for approval or rejection.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as preventing an
individual from constructing a sewer, house connection or storm drain for his
or her own home or on his or her own premises. However, this provision shall
not be construed to exempt such person from all other requirements specified in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.020) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No sewer of any kind, public or private or house sanitary connection
or house storm drain, shall be constructed or made, altered or repaired, nor
shall any connection of any sewer or house sanitary connection or house storm
drain to any sewer, public or private, be constructed or made, altered or
repaired without first having obtained from the Superintendent of Public Works
a written permit therefor. No permit shall be issued for such construction,
alteration or repair work until the plans and specifications therefor, or
required data concerning it, have first been submitted to and approved by the
Superintendent of Public Works.
   (B)   Before issuing such permit, an application shall be filed with the
Superintendent of Public Works, and all applications for permits shall be in
writing on blanks to be furnished by the Superintendent of Public Works. The
application shall be signed by the owner of the premises on which the proposed
work is to be done and shall be accompanied by a complete and legible set of
plans and specifications of the work to be done, or in lieu thereof such
written description or information as shall be acceptable to the Superintendent
of Public Works.
   (C)   All details concerning the construction of any sewer or house storm
drains and their appurtenances shall be subject to the approval of the
Superintendent of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 51.021)
§ 51.022 PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   Each application for such permit shall be accompanied by a fee in an
amount shown on the fee schedule of the village.
   (B)   No applicant owing money to the village for fees required by this
chapter either for the work described in any such application or for any
previous work performed, or inspections made hereunder, shall be granted a
permit for such work.
(Prior Code, § 51.022)
§ 51.023 FORFEITURE OF PERMIT OR LICENSE.
   Any person or other party to whom a permit or license shall have been issued
and who shall neglect, refuse or fail to make good any defect or fault in any
of the work done or materials used under any permit or license after 30 days’
written notice thereof from the Superintendent of Public Works, shall not be
permitted to do any further or additional work of constructing any sewer,
connection or drain or appurtenances until such defects or faults have been
made good in a manner satisfactory to the Superintendent of Public Works. In
the event of such neglect, refusal or failure, any existing permit or license
in favor of such person or other party shall be revoked by the Superintendent
of Public Works and the bond of such, persons enforced as to past defaults.
(Prior Code, § 51.023)
§ 51.024 CHANGE IN PLANS; SUPPLEMENTARY PERMIT.
   Any changes or modifications in the proposed work shall be considered as new
work, and no such changes or modifications shall be installed or made without a
supplementary permit therefor, subject to the same terms and conditions as
herein contained. The fee for such supplementary permits shall be $25.
(Prior Code, § 51.024)
§ 51.025 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   If the work is not commenced under any permit within six months after the
issue of the permit, or if the work is not satisfactorily prosecuted after its
commencement, such permit will be considered as having expired and shall be
null and void.
(Prior Code, § 51.025)
BUILDING SEWERS; CONNECTIONS
§ 51.040 CONNECTION MANDATORY; REGULATIONS TO APPLY.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into; use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the village.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   Residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   Service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the village. A permit and inspection
fee of $10 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit shall be paid
to the village at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   (D)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (E)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except that, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (F)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the village, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
   (H)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is
approved in accordance with division (B) above and discharged to the building
sewer.
   (I)   No permit shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (J)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such
connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the village before
installation.
   (K)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the village
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the village or its
representative.
   (L)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Prior Code, § 51.035) (Ord. 88-108, passed 9-28-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.041 NOTICE TO BE GIVEN TO SUPERINTENDENT BEFORE COMMENCEMENT OF WORK.
   In every case of a proposed sewer connection, notice shall be given to the
Superintendent of Public Works specifying the time and place where the work is
to commence. Such notice shall be in writing and given at least three full days
prior to the commencement of the work.
(Prior Code, § 51.036)
§ 51.042 SEWER CONNECTIONS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All connections with any sewer 15 inches or smaller shall be
made by means of a “Y” or “T” branch or other special fitting provided in such
sewer for that purpose.
      (2)   If a connection to a sewer must be made at any place where a “Y” or
“T” branch has not been placed, where feasible, a “Y” fitting shall be placed
in the main sewer in the following manner: a section of sewer pipe shall be
removed from the main sewer by breaking it into pieces, care being taken not to
break, disturb or injure the adjacent pipe. The “Y” fitting shall then be
inserted without chipping or breaking the pipe or branch where possible; where
not possible, the upper half (when in position) of the bell on the run of the
“Y” branch to be inserted, and the upper half of the nearest and adjacent bell
on the existing pipe in the trench, shall then be carefully removed and the “Y”
branch inserted wrong side up and revolved to bring the branch to the side it
is intended for, with the broken part of the bell up. The joint shall then be
cemented in the proper manner, the broke parts of the bells being well rounded
over with a liberal amount of cement mortar or other approved material.
   (B)   Connections to a sewer may also be made by inserting in the sewer a
standard saddle fitting. Such a fitting shall be one designed for that purpose
and shall not be improvised from the bell end of a straight length of pipe.
Before cutting the hole in the sewer of the saddle fitting, the sides and
bottom of the length of pipe in which the hole is to be cut shall be
strengthened by a layer of concrete not less than three inches in thickness at
any point. The hole in the pipe shall be carefully marked and chipped or
pinched out; the saddle placed so that no part projects into the pipe and
carefully mortared into position. Sections of pipe shall then be fitted into
the saddle to form a riser and all such pieces of pipe which are vertically
over the sewer shall be encased in a shaft of concrete having a thickness about
the pipe of not less than three inches. The shaft shall firmly rest on the
block of concrete encasing the sewer pipe in which the connection was made. The
concrete shaft shall be poured into a form of light sheet metal or stove pipe
which form shall be left in place as the trench is backfilled. The earth
backfill around the shaft shall be carefully tamped and the backfill brought up
uniformly on all sides to prevent lateral loads upon and the possible breaking
of the shaft.
   (C)   No basement, half-basement or any other portion of a building having a
floor elevation beneath the ground surface over the village sanitary sewer at
the point of connection may be connected into the village sewer by gravity. In
areas where the ground line over the village sewer is to be altered, the
proposed final ground elevation shall be used. The maximum depth to the top of
the building service sewer shall be at least three feet below finished grade at
the point where it enters such building. In all buildings in which the building
drain is too low to provide gravity flow to the village sewer, all sewage
carried by such drain shall be lifted by approved mechanical means and
discharged into the building sewer. No water-operated sewage ejector shall be
used. The aforesaid provisions shall apply to all buildings constructed after
the effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.037) (Ord. 94-101, passed 5- -1994) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.043 QUALITY OF MATERIALS.
   (A)   All materials used in any sewer, house sanitary sewer service
connection or house storm drain, or part thereof, shall be free from defects.
   (B)   House service lines shall be six inches in diameter and shall be
constructed of one of the following three materials:
      (1)   Extra strength vitrified clay pipe conforming to ASTM C-700 with
joints conforming to ASTM C-425;
      (2)   Ductile iron pipe conforming to AWWA C-151 and ANSI A21.51. The
pipe shall be cement lined in accordance with AWWA C-104 and ANSI A21.4. The
pipe shall be coated on the exterior with a petroleum-asphaltic coating of one
mil thickness. Pipe shall be Class 50; or
      (3)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic pipe shall conform to ASTM-3034.
The pipe shall have a standard dimension ratio of 35 and shall have a gasketed
joint with an integral bell which is a homogenous part of the pipe. The joint
shall conform to ASTM D-3212 and the gasket shall conform to ASTM F-477.
   (C)   Materials for house storm drains may be any of the above listed
materials and in addition may be constructed of concrete pipe conforming to
ASTM C-76.
   (D)   All other types of pipe, except those listed above are strictly
prohibited for use.
(Prior Code, § 51.038) (Ord. 86-102, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 86-103, passed 4-
21-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.044 JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Joints for extra strength vitrified clay pipe shall have a factory
installed PVC (polyvinyl chloride) collar installed on one end of each pipe
length. The other end shall have a factory installed band of urethane all in
accordance with ASTM C-425.
   (B)   All joints in ductile iron pipe shall be flanged mechanical joint or
“push-on” rubber gasket joints conforming to AWWA C111 and ANSI A 4.11.
   (C)   All joints in polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe shall have a rubber
gasketed joint conforming to ASTM F-477.
   (D)   All joints in concrete pipe shall use confined “O” ring type rubber
gaskets.
(Prior Code, § 51.039) (Ord. 86-103, passed 4-21-1986) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.045 FUNCTION OF HOUSE CONNECTION AND DRAINS.
   (A)   The domestic sewage from residences, human habitations, institutions,
stables, garages, business buildings and industries shall be conveyed from the
structures in a conduit or pipe, herein termed a “house sanitary connection.”
   (B)   The connection shall extend to a public separate sanitary or combined
sewer, if such a sewer serves the property.
   (C)   No storm surface or ground water shall be permitted to enter this
house sanitary connection discharging into a sewer.
   (D)   No sanitary sewage shall be discharged into a separate storm sewer.
(Prior Code, § 51.040) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.046 INDEPENDENT CONNECTIONS AND DRAINS.
   Each residence, institution or business building shall have its own separate
house sanitary connection. A house sanitary connection shall not be permitted
to serve more than one residence or other unit, except connections for
duplexes, apartment houses or other multiple unit users, and then only by
express permission of the Superintendent of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 51.041) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.047 MATERIALS FOR CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The house sanitary connection shall be six-inch vitrified clay, PVC or
concrete pipe, except within five feet of the outside of a building it shall be
of four-inch or six-inch cast iron pipe.
   (B)   All underground pipes when within four feet or less of the surface of
the ground under a driveway shall be of cast iron pipe, PVC or of vitrified
clay pipe having an envelope of concrete of a mix of 1:2:4 or better and at
least three inches in thickness.
   (C)   (1)   Where a connection or drain is laid at a distance less than five
feet from the exterior wall of a building, or in ground where it will be
subjected to vibration or to settlement, cast iron pipe shall be used.
      (2)   Where the ground is of sufficient solidity for a proper foundation
or where special supports or secure foundation are provided, vitrified clay,
PVC or concrete pipe or cast iron pipe may be used.
(Prior Code, § 51.042)
§ 51.048 SPECIFICATIONS FOR LAYING HOUSE SEWER.
   (A)   (1)   No house sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of
any bearing wall which might be thereby weakened.
      (2)   The house sewer shall be laid at sufficient depth to protect it
from frost.
   (B)   (1)   All sewer and drain pipes shall be laid carefully in a trench in
a straight line and on a straight grade.
      (2)   Where deviation from a straight run is necessary, it shall be made
with a curve or other acceptable fitting.
   (C)   In the bottom of the trench, a groove shall be cut for each hub, in
order to give the pipe a solid bearing for its entire length and the soil
backfill shall be well rammed on either side of the pipe.
(Prior Code, § 51.043) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.049 PIPES TO BE CLOSED.
   The ends of all pipes not to be immediately connected shall be securely
stopped by tile, brick, cement or other water-tight and durable material.
(Prior Code, § 51.044) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.050 BACK WATER VALVE.
   Where the plumbing system of a building may be subjected to back flow of
sewage or water, suitable provision shall be made to prevent overflow into the
building by the installation of a satisfactory backwater valve or valves or
other satisfactory means.
(Prior Code, § 51.045) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 INSPECTION OF CONNECTIONS.
   All piping and appurtenances of a sewer system or house sanitary connections
shall be inspected by the Superintendent of Public Works to ensure compliance
with all the requirements of this chapter and the installation and construction
of the system in accordance with any approved plan and the permit.
(Prior Code, § 51.046)
§ 51.052 NOTIFICATION OF SUPERINTENDENT FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or his or her agent to notify the
Superintendent of Public Works orally, by telephone, or in writing, not less
than eight working hours before the work is to be inspected and have a time set
for the inspection.
   (B)   If the Superintendent of Public Works finds on inspection that the
work and materials entered into the work are not satisfactory, the owner or his
or her agent shall remedy the defect and then renotify the Superintendent of
Public Works as above and arrange for a reinspection.
   (C)   If the Superintendent of Public Works fails to appear within 24 hours
of the time set for an inspection, the inspection shall be deemed to have been
made.
(Prior Code, § 51.047)
§ 51.053 DEFECTIVE WORK.
   If, upon inspection, defects in material or in work shall be found, such
defects in work or materials shall be redone or replaced within three days or
as the Superintendent of Public Works may direct, and the aforementioned
inspection shall be repeated.
(Prior Code, § 51.048) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.054 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   If the sewer construction work is approved by the Superintendent of Public
Works, he or she shall issue a certificate of satisfactory inspection, but no
certificate shall be issued unless all sewer construction is in strict
conformity with the rules and regulations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.049)
§ 51.055 FEES.
   Before the certificate of satisfactory inspection is issued, all fees due
the village in connection with the application for a permit required under the
terms of this chapter shall have been paid to the Superintendent of Public
Works.
(Prior Code, § 51.050)
§ 51.056 CONDEMNED MATERIALS.
   (A)   The presence of any material near the site of work, other than
provided for in this chapter, shall be sufficient cause for condemning part of
the entire work.
   (B)   If inspection discloses defective material or unworkmanlike
construction which does not conform to the requirements of this chapter, such
defective material or unworkmanlike construction shall be condemned and the
owner or his or her agent shall not proceed with the use of such defective
material or unworkmanlike construction.
   (C)   Condemned materials not yet installed shall be removed forthwith from
the site of the work, and construction already installed with condemned
materials shall be removed within three days following the condemnation thereof
or as the Superintendent of Public Works may direct.
(Prior Code, § 51.051) Penalty, see §
51.999
PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.070 USE Of PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
village and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the village,
is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so; provided that, the public sewer is within 100 feet of
the property line.
(Prior Code, § 51.060) (Ord. 88-108, passed 9-28-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.071 PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES AND CHEMICALS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the village. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged on approval of the village, to a storm sewer or
natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastic, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by a garbage grinder.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the village that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream;
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the village
will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant
and maximum limits established by the regulatory agencies. The substances
prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F or 65°C;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F
(0°C and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the village;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the village for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the village as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the village in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time, except as permitted by the village in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations;
      (10)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time, except as
permitted by the village in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations;
      (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs,” as defined herein.
      (12)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and/or which are in
violation of the standard for pretreatment provided in Ch. 1, EPA Rules and
Regulations, Subch. D, Water Programs Part 128, Pretreatment Standards, Federal
Register Volume 38, No. 215, Thursday, 11-8-1973 and any amendments thereto,
and which in the judgment of the village may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the village may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes of sewer charges, under the
provisions of division (J) below.
      (2)   If the village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the village and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the village, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the village and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment on flow-equalizing facilities are
provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the village, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together
with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the village. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole.
      (1)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property.
      (2)   The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.
   (J)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength of character
may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in
accordance with the industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 51.061) (Ord. 88-108, passed 9-28-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.072 TRAPS AND RECEIVING TANKS.
   (A)   General. A gasoline and oil trap shall be provided on the waste from
all garages, automobile wash floors, cleaning establishments or establishments
from which gasoline, benzine or other similar substance may be discharged. The
trap shall be installed on the waste pipe above its junction with any other
pipe or receptacle containing sewage. The passing of human or animal excrement
through such a trap is prohibited.
   (B)   Sumps and receiving tanks. In a building in which the whole or part of
the plumbing system lies below the house connection to the public sewer the
outlet from the plumbing system or part thereof shall discharge into a sump or
receiving tank from which the sewage shall be pumped through a pipe to the
house connection or to the public sewer.
      (1)   The sump or receiving tank shall be adequate in capacity. It should
be discharged not less frequently than once each hour. It shall be constructed
in a water-tight and substantial manner of masonry, vitrified clay or metal. It
shall be provided with an air-tight cover. Any pipe discharging into the sump
or receiving tank shall not be submerged.
      (2)   No storm, surface or ground water shall be conducted to a sump or
tank receiving domestic sewage. Such water may be conducted to a separate sump
for the purpose of pumping it to the surface of the ground or to a storm sewer
if such exists.
(Prior Code, § 51.062) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.073 USE OF SEWERS; CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   No part of any new, reconstructed or repaired sewer work shall be used for
which a certificate of approval has not been issued by the Superintendent of
Public Works. Any person attempting to use or flow any sewage into the public
sewer system from any new, reconstructed or repaired sewer work without
obtaining the certificate of approval, as herein provided, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. In addition thereto the Superintendent of Public Works shall
proceed forthwith to disconnect such new, reconstructed or repaired sewer work
for which no certificate of approval has been issued and may enter upon any
public or private property for the purpose of such disconnection.
(Prior Code, § 51.063) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.074 INJURY TO PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provisions shall be
subject to immediate arrest under the charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 51.064) (Ord. 88-108, passed 9-28-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.075 INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM.
   No person shall interfere with, molest, uncover, take off covers from
manholes or lampholes, or disturb any portion of the public sewer system or
appurtenances thereto in the village. Any person or person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter or any section thereof shall become liable to the
village for any expense or damage occasioned to the village by reason of such
violation and, in addition thereto, shall be subject to any of the fines and
penalties as is provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.065) Penalty, see §
51.999
CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES, PRIVY VAULTS
§ 51.090 CONSTRUCTION TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS.
   No vault, privy, catch basin or cesspool shall hereafter be constructed or
rebuilt in the village, except in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter and county regulations.
(Prior Code, § 51.085) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.091 ERECTION OR MAINTENANCE OF PRIVY NEAR OTHER BUILDING.
   It shall be unlawful and it is hereby declared a nuisance for any person to
erect or maintain any privy within 40 feet of any street, dwelling, ship,
school, factory, church, public hall or within 100 feet of any well, unless the
same is furnished with a substantial vault, six feet deep, and made tight so
that the contents cannot escape therefrom, and is sufficiently secured and
enclosed.
(Prior Code, § 51.086) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.092 PRIVIES IN PLACES OF HUMAN HABITATION.
   It shall be unlawful to have the general privy accommodations of any place
of human habitation within any such place of habitation, or under any sidewalk
adjacent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 51.087) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.093 WATER-TIGHT CESSPOOL REQUIRED.
   All cesspools shall be water-tight.
(Prior Code, § 51.088) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.094 CONTENTS OF PRIVIES OR CATCH BASINS.
   (A)   Contents not to become offensive. The contents of any tub, or of any
receptacle, cesspool, privy, catch basin, vault, sink, water closet, cistern or
any thing in any room excavation, vat, building, premises or place shall not be
allowed to become a nuisance or offensive, so as to be dangerous or prejudicial
to health.
   (B)   Abatement. All privies or catch basins, any part of the contents which
are above the surface, or within two feet of the face of, the earth, and all
other privies or catch basins that are foul, omitting smells and odors that are
prejudicial to the public health, are hereby declared nuisances, and the Code
Enforcement Officer shall have the power to abate the same, as provided in this
code of ordinances.
   (C)   Overflowing. No person shall draw off or allow to run off onto any
ground, street or place of the village the contents, or any part thereof, of
any vault, cistern, cesspool or catch basin; nor shall any owner, tenant or
occupant of any building to which any vault, catch basin, privy or cesspool
shall appertain or be attached permit the contents, or any part thereof, to
flow therefrom or to rise within two feet of any part of the top, or such
contents to become offensive; nor shall any privy or any other structure
mentioned in this section be filled with or covered with dirt, until its filthy
contents shall be emptied.
(Prior Code, § 51.089) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.095 REMOVAL; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The owner, tenant or occupant of any building or premises within the village
shall not cause or permit any part of the contents of any privy, vault, catch
basin or cesspool over which he or she has control to be removed, except
according to a permit issued by the Code Enforcement Officer and subject to any
rules of the county for removing the same.
(Prior Code, § 51.090)
§ 51.096 DISINFECTION.
   All privies, catch basins, vaults and cesspools, when cleaned, shall be
disinfected with freshly burned lime, and the work of such disinfection shall
be done by the person removing such contents.
(Prior Code, § 51.091) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.097 DEPOSITING GARBAGE AND THE LIKE IN PRIVIES.
   No person shall throw into or deposit in any vault, sink, privy, catch basin
or cesspool any offal, ashes, meat, fish, garbage or other substance, nor shall
any slops or kitchen wastes be allowed to run into any privy.
(Prior Code, § 51.092) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.098 WELLS AND CISTERNS TO BE ADEQUATELY COVERED.
   The owner or occupant of any dwelling, building or other structure within
the village is hereby required to place and maintain suitable coverings over
all wells or cisterns outside of any dwelling, building or other structure, or
within any unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling or structure, that is
accessible to children.
(Prior Code, § 51.093) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.099 CISTERN OVERFLOW PIPES.
   No cistern used for the collection and storage of rainwater from roofs shall
have its overflow pipes directly connected with any sewer. Wherever an overflow
pipe is provided for such cistern, such pipe shall lead to an area or gutter
and shall have its outlet protected with a suitable metal screen.
(Prior Code, § 51.094) Penalty, see §
51.999
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 51.110 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Village of Tremont.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the
inner face of the building wall.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond and the like) outstanding
and shall be computed by dividing the annual debt service by the number of
users connected to the wastewater facilities.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Are defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq.), as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of Amendments of
1972 (Pub. Law No. 92-500) and (Pub. Law No. 93-243).
   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. Government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II: Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS. Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes schools, hospitals, churches,
penal institutions and users associated with federal, state and local
governments.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal system
receiving the waste; has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as
defined in standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C.
§ 1317(a); or is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 grams of the constituent in 1,000 milligrams of water.
It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it
is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the
discharge of pollutants pursuant to § 402 of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1342.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in Standard Methods.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or steam. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20 pounds of
suspended solids.
   ppm. Parts per million by weight.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27
centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sanitary (or combined sewer system), even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with village funds.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments and permanent multi-family dwellings.
   SEWAGE. Is used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and ground water drainage.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or
a combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground water, or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      (4)   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water
drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STATE ACT. The state’s Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970, being 30 ILCS 405/
1 et seq.
   STATE GRANT. The state participation in financing of the construction of
treatment works as provided for by the state’s Anti-Pollution Bond Act, being
30 ILCS 405/1 et seq., and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary
of State of the State of Illinois.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in Ch. 00, Art. III.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated and shall be 20 years from the date of start-
up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a state grant.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance.
   USER CLASS. The type of user, “residential,” “institutional/governmental,”
“commercial” or “industrial,” as defined in this section.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Tremont.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried waste from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in §
51.117 of this chapter and shall consist of the total or the basic user charge,
the debt service charge and a surcharge, if applicable.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL
PLANT.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the water pollution regulations of the
state.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 51.100) (Ord. 86-107, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 51.111 BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied
by the wastewater facilities of the village shall consist of a basic user
charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement, a debt service charge
and a surcharge, if applicable. The debt service charge shall be computed by
dividing the annual debt service oil outstanding revenue bonds by the number of
users. Through further divisions, the monthly debt service charges can be
computed.
   (B)   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
concentrations:
      (1)   A five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 210 mg/l; and
      (2)   A suspended solids (SS) content of 250 mg/l.
   (C)   It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs, plus replacement
and shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories;
      (2)   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories by
volume, suspended solids and BOD, if possible;
      (3)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated;
      (4)   Proportion the estimated costs to non-industrial and industrial
users by volume, suspended solids and BOD;
      (5)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal sewage strength; and
      (6)   Compute surcharge costs per 1,000 gallons per mg/l in excess of
normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
   (D)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the normal
concentration for BOD (210 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l). The surcharge will be based
on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for all wastes
which exceed the 210 mg/l and 250 mg/l concentration for BOD and SS
respectively. Section 51.116 of this chapter specifies the procedure to compute
a surcharge.
   (E)   (1)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed
annually by certified public accountants for the village in their annual audit
report.
      (2)   The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to
reflect a change in debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs
including replacement costs.
(Prior Code, § 51.101) (Ord. 86-107, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 51.112 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
100 gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the village for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the village if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered
water consumption records.
   (C)   (1)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person.
      (2)   Following approval and installation, such meters may not be
removed, unless service is cancelled, without the consent of the village.
(Prior Code, § 51.102) (Ord. 86-107, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 51.113 DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.
   A debt service charge of $13.50 per month to each user of the wastewater
facility of the village is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 51.103) (Ord. 86-107, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 51.114 BASIC USER RATE.
    (A)   Each user of water service for the village shall be charged a monthly
sewer service fee for the use of said service to be paid with the user's water
bill for that month as follows:   
      (1)   First 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof: $19.73;
      (2)   Each additional 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof: $7.70; and
      (3)   The minimum monthly charge for sewer service shall be $19.73.
   (B)   The village reserves the right to make such reasonable changes in
rates and in conditions herein established and to establish further rules and
regulations from time to time as may be found expeditious or necessary.
   (C)   All rates for sewer as set forth in division (A) above shall increase
of 1.5% per year, to be effective on May 1 of each year; provided, the Board of
Trustees, at its first regular meeting in March of each year, shall review the
then current status of the village’s Water and Sewer Fund to determine if the
rates currently in effect should be adjusted to properly reflect changes in the
financial condition of such fund.
(Prior Code, § 51.104) (Ord. 86-107, passed 12-15-1986; Ord. 87-101, passed 2-
2-1987; Ord. 88-109, passed 9-28-1988; Ord. 22-106, passed - -2022; Ord. 23-
108, passed 4-3-2023; Ord. 24-106, passed 4-15-2024; Ord. 25-108, passed 3-17-
2025)
§ 51.115 SURCHARGE RATE.
   The rates of surcharges for BOD5 and SS shall be as follows:
   (A)   BOD5: 0.07/100 mg/l per 1,000 gallons per month; and
   (B)   SS: 0.09/100 mg/l per 1,000 gallons per month.
(Prior Code, § 51.105) (Ord. 86-107, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 51.116 COMPUTATION OF SURCHARGE.
   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the village and shall be binding as a basis for
surcharges.
(Prior Code, § 51.106) (Ord. 86-107, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 51.117 COMPUTATION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
CW = CD + CM + (Vu-X)CU + CS
   Where
   CW   =   Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period.
   CD   =   Debt service charge (Section 3).
   CM   =   Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement (Section
4).
   Vu   =   Wastewater volume for the billing period.
   X   =   Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge (Section 4).
   CU   =   Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement (Section
4).
   CS   =   Amount of surcharge (Section 5 and 6).
(Prior Code, § 51.107) (Ord. 86-107, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 51.118 BILLS.
   (A)    The rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly depending
on the classification of service for which bills are rendered. Bills shall be
sent to the owner of the property to which service is provided at the address
to which real estate tax bills are mailed.
   (B)    With respect to sewer service to properties in the R-1, R-2 and R-
3 zoning districts, the owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the
user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the
service to such premises and the service is furnished to the premises by the
village only upon the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and
user of the services are jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
   (C)   Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the Village Treasurer on
or about the first day of the month succeeding the period for which the service
is billed.
   (D)   All sewer bills are due and payable ten days after being sent out. A
penalty of 10% shall be added to all bills not paid by the twentieth day of the
month.
   (E)   Each user will be notified at least annually in conjunction with a
regular bill of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are
attributable to wastewater treatment services.
(Prior Code, § 51.108)  (Ord. 86-107, passed 12-15-1986; Ord. 87-101, passed 2-
2-1987; Ord. 22-122, passed 12-5-2022; Ord. 22-124, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 51.119 COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT BILLS.
    (A)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The village's form for application
for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title,
address and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
20 days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in
writing his complaint and contentions to the village official in charge of
utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer's
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing with be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in an amount to be determined by the Village Board, regardless of
whether or not ownership of the property has been transferred.
   (D)   If an account becomes delinquent and the village deems it necessary to
take steps to collect the account, the owner of the premises, the occupant
thereof and the user of the service shall, in addition to being jointly and
severally liable for to pay the delinquent bill, also be jointly and severally
liable for all attorneys fees and costs incurred by the village in the
collection of the account.
   (E)   Unpaid utility service bills for which service has been disconnected
shall become a lien on the real estate upon the filing by the village of a
notice of lien with the Tazewell County Recorder of Deeds. The notice of lien
shall contain the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the
unpaid bill and a notice that the village claims a lien for the amount due, all
charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill and all costs and expenses
incurred by the village in collection of the bill, including without limitation
attorneys fees and costs.
(Ord. 22-124, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 51.120 [RESERVED].
§ 51.121 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for non-payment
of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges,
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
The foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the village. The
Village Attorney is authorized and directed to institute the proceedings in the
name of the village in any court having jurisdiction over such matters against
any property for which the bill has remained unpaid 45 days in the case of a
monthly bill after it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 51.111) (Ord. 86-107, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 51.122 REVENUES.
   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the sewerage system
shall be deposited in the Sewerage Account of the Sewerage Fund. All such
revenues and moneys shall be held by the Village Treasurer separate and apart
from his or her private fund and separate and apart from all other funds of the
village and all of the sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered
to the Village Treasurer not more than ten days after receipt of the same, or
at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the
President and Board of Trustees. The Village Treasurer shall receive all
revenues from the sewerage system and all other funds and moneys incident to
the operation of the system as the same may be delivered to him or her and
deposit the same in the account of the fund designated as the “Sewerage Fund of
the Village.” The Treasurer shall administer the fund in every respect in the
manner provided by statute of the Revised Cities and Villages Act, being 65
ILCS 20/0.01 et seq., effective January, 1942.
(Prior Code, § 51.112) (Ord. 86-107, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 51.123 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system and,
at regular annual intervals, he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual
audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the
wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer
service charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts
required to be recovered under the regulations.
      (2)   In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
         (a)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
         (b)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
         (c)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
         (d)   Number of users connected to the system;
         (e)   Number of non-metered users; and
         (f)   A list of users discharging non-domestic wastes (industrial
users) and volume of waste discharged.
(Prior Code, § 51.113) (Ord. 86-107, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 51.124 NOTICE OF RATES.
   A copy of this subchapter, properly certified by the Village Treasurer,
shall be filed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county and shall
be deemed notice to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage
system of the village on their properties.
(Prior Code, § 51.114) (Ord. 86-107, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 51.125 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized representative shall
have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the village which
are applicable to the village system of user charges or industrial cost
recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the grant
received by the village.
(Prior Code, § 51.115) (Ord. 86-107, passed 12-15-1986)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.170 OFFICE CREATED.
   As provided in §
52.001 of this code of ordinances, the Superintendent of Public Works may
appoint an employee to serve as Superintendent of Sewers.
(Prior Code, § 51.130)
§ 51.171 DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT OF SEWERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Sewers:
   (A)   To examine and approve plans and specifications for sewer construction
work;
   (B)   To issue permits for such work upon the fulfillment by the applicant
of the provisions of this chapter therefor;
   (C)   To collect fees as provided herein and to deliver all fees collected
to the Treasurer within 15 days after the collection of any such fee or fees;
   (D)   To inspect sewers, including house sanitary connections and house
storm drains, and the materials to be used therein;
   (E)   To conduct tests thereon;
   (F)   To issue certificates of approval;
   (G)   To keep records of actions taken, and examinations, inspections and
tests made, and of permits and certificates issued;
   (H)   To make a monthly report of his or her acts and doings to the Board of
Trustees; and
   (I)   To advise the public, when requested in the matter of these
regulations relating to the Sewerage System.
(Prior Code, § 51.131)
§ 51.172 INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Duly authorized employees of the village and the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency and the state’s Environmental Protection Agency bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The village or
its representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any processes,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other
industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the village or duly authorized employees of the village
and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the state’s Environmental
Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the village employees and the village shall indemnify the company
against loss or damage to its property by village employees and against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain safe conditions as required in §
51.071(H) of this chapter.
   (C)   The village and other duly authorized employees of the village bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the village holds a duly- negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 51.132) (Ord. 88-108, passed 9-28-1988)
§ 51.173 VIOLATION; REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The permit or license of a sewer builder shall become void in the
village when he or she shall refuse or neglect within three days time after
notification thereof in writing to make such necessary corrections to the sewer
work either in workmanship or material as shall have been ordered by the
Superintendent of Public Works, or if such person shall permit the use of his
or her name by another person or persons for the purpose of obtaining a permit
or license to do sewer work.
   (B)   Any sewer builder who shall construct or install any sewer work in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, and any builder,
contractor, architect or designer designing, drawing or issuing plans for or
having charge of such sewer work or who shall permit it to be so constructed or
installed shall be liable to the penalties provided or imposed in this code.
(Prior Code, § 51.133)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Waterworks and Sewage Department established
   
52.002   Village not liable
   
52.003   Access to premises
   
52.004   Obstruction of access to stop cock, hydrant and the like prohibited
Water Service; Connections
   
52.015   Application for water
   
52.016   Turning on water
   
52.017   Water for building or construction purposes
   
52.018   Rules and regulations for consumers and plumbers
   
52.019   Collection of delinquent bills
   
52.020   Connection to water main required
   
52.021   Connection to separate premises
   
52.022   Water for fountains and lawn sprinkling
   
52.023   Unlawful use of water
   
52.024   Specification of materials for water mains and house service lines
   
52.025   Connection fees for water main extensions
Meters
   
52.040   Water to be supplied through meters
   
52.041   Faulty meters
   
52.042   Meter for multiple dwellings
   
52.043   Tampering with meters; appurtenances
Rates and Billing
   
52.055   Water rates
   
52.056   Billing
Backflow Prevention
   
52.070   Installation of backflow prevention devices
   
52.071   Private water supply
   
52.072   Survey and investigation of properties using public water supply
   
52.073   Cross-connection control device inspector; right of entry
   
52.074   Discontinuance of service violation
   
52.075   Cost of clean-up
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 WATERWORKS AND SEWAGE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established an executive department of the village to be
known as the combined Waterworks and Sewage Department, and there shall be
placed in charge of the Department the Superintendent of Public Works who may
appoint employees to serve as Superintendents of Waterworks and Sewers,
respectively. The Superintendents shall perform duties under the direction of
the Superintendent of Public Works and the President and the Board of Trustees
and shall post bond and receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees from
time to time determines.
(Prior Code, § 52.01)
§ 52.002 VILLAGE NOT LIABLE.
   All connections and water applied for hereunder, and all the water used
hereunder, shall be upon the express condition that the village shall not be
liable, nor shall any claim be made against it for damages or injury caused by
reason of the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or
appurtenances connected with the system or plant, or any part or portion of the
plant, or for any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakage of
machinery or by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions or renewals.
(Prior Code, § 52.02)
§ 52.003 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The village and its employees shall have ready access to the premises,
places or buildings where meters are located for the purpose of reading,
examining, testing and repairing the same and examining and testing the
consumption, use and flow of water, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere with, prevent or obstruct the village of its duly authorized agent in
its duties hereunder. Every consumer of the water shall take the same upon the
conditions prescribed in this section.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.004 OBSTRUCTION OF ACCESS TO STOP COCK, HYDRANT AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall in any manner obstruct the access to any stop cock, hydrant
or valve or any public faucet or opening for taking water in any street, alley,
public ground or place connected with or part of the water system, nor pile or
place any lumber, brick or building material or other article, thing or
hindrance whatsoever within 12 feet of the same, or so as to in any manner
hinder, delay or obstruct the members of the Fire Department to reach the same.
It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to interfere with or obstruct
the flow, retention, storage of authorized use of water in the water system,
reservoir or plant, or any part thereof, or to injure, deface, remove or
displace any water main, hydrant, service pipe, water meter, shut-off box,
public fountain, valve, engine or building connected with the water system, or
plant, or to cause, suffer or permit any of these things to be done.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
WATER SERVICE; CONNECTIONS
§ 52.015 APPLICATION FOR WATER.
    No water shall be turned on for use on or in any premises until an
application therefor in writing has been made for that purpose and filed with
the Village Clerk, stating the purpose for which the water is to be used. If
the applicant is not the owner in fee simple of the recorded title to the
property where the applicant desires the water to be turned on, he or she shall
deposit with his or her application the sum of $150 before any water is turned
on. Such deposit shall be held by the village as security for the payment of
water used by the applicant and may be so applied when any default is made in
payment of a water bill. With respect to water service to properties in the R-
1, R-2 and R-3 zoning districts, the owner of the premises, the occupant
thereof and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to
pay for the service to such premises and the service is furnished to the
premises by the village only upon the condition that the owner of the premises,
occupant and user of the services are jointly and severally liable therefor to
the village.
(Prior Code, § 52.15) (Ord. 13-107, passed 7-15-2013; Ord. 22-123, passed 12-5-
2022)
§ 52.016 TURNING ON WATER.
   No person not duly authorized shall turn the water on at any fire hydrant or
service cock or use water therefrom when so turned on, and the person so using
or wasting water in such unlawful manner shall be liable to pay for the same.
(Prior Code, § 52.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.017 WATER FOR BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES.
   Persons desiring to use village water for building or construction purposes
shall make application therefor in writing and file the same in the office of
the Clerk on a form provided for that purpose. Upon a permit being granted,
which permits shall be issued in writing and signed by the Superintendent of
Waterworks, the service pipe shall be carried at the expense of the applicant
to the inside of the curb line, where a service cock and meter shall be placed,
with pipe leading to the surface, and a faucet placed at the end thereof above
the surface. When the building or construction work is completed, the faucet
and meter shall be removed and the water shut off, unless permanent connection
hereunder is made. Charge for the use and connecting of meters shall be as
prescribed hereafter by the President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 52.17)
§ 52.018 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR CONSUMERS AND PLUMBERS.
   The following rules and regulations for the consumers of water and plumbers
are hereby adopted and established.
   (A)   No water shall be furnished or supplied to any consumer for any
purpose whatever, until such consumer shall make application therefor. Such
application shall state the location of the premises to be served and the use
to which the water will be put.
   (B)   No water consumer may supply water to other families or allow them to
take it, except for use on the premises and for the purpose specified in the
application, nor after water is introduced into any building or upon any
premises shall any person make or employ any other person to make any tap or
connection with the work upon the premises for alterations, repairs, extensions
or attachments without a written permit therefor to be issued by the
Superintendent of Waterworks.
   (C)   The village reserves the right to shut off water at any time in the
mains for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, making connections with or
extensions to same, or for the concentrating of water in any part of the
village in case of fire; and for restricting the use of the water in case of
deficiency in supply. No claim shall be made against the village by reason of
breaking of any service pipe or service cock or damage arising from shutting
off of water for repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants or other
connections or repairing any part of the water system, or from failure of the
water supply or by increasing the water pressure at any time, or from
concentration or restricted use of water as above.
(Prior Code, § 52.18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.019 COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The village's form for application
for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title,
address and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
20 days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in
writing his complaint and contentions to the village official in charge of
utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer's
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing with be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in an amount to be determined by the Village Board, regardless of
whether or not ownership of the property has been transferred.
   (D)   If an account becomes delinquent and the village deems it necessary to
take steps to collect the account, the owner of the premises, the occupant
thereof and the user of the service shall, in addition to being jointly and
severally liable for to pay the delinquent bill, also be jointly and severally
liable for all attorneys fees and costs incurred by the village in the
collection of the account.
   (E)   Unpaid utility service bills for which service has been disconnected
shall become a lien on the real estate upon the filing by the village of a
notice of lien with the Tazewell County Recorder of Deeds. The notice of lien
shall contain the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the
unpaid bill and a notice that the village claims a lien for the amount due, all
charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill and all costs and expenses
incurred by the village in collection of the bill, including without limitation
attorneys fees and costs.
(Ord. 22-125, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 52.020 CONNECTION TO WATER MAIN REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or other properties, used for human
occupancy, employment, business, recreation or other purpose within the
purview, abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a water main facility belonging to the
village, is hereby required to connect to such water main in accordance with
the provisions of this code, within one year of either the passage hereof or
the date when such public water main facility is available for use to such
properties mentioned, whichever last occurs, and, thereafter, all properties
shall be immediately connected with the water main facility. However, the water
main is available within 200 feet of the property line such property.
(Prior Code, § 52.20)
§ 52.021 CONNECTION TO SEPARATE PREMISES.
   No owner or plumber shall be permitted to conduct water pipes into any two
distinct premises or tenements unless separate and distinct stop cocks shall be
placed on the outside of such premises along the sidewalk opposite the same,
nor shall any pipe be allowed to cross lots or buildings to adjoining premises.
(Prior Code, § 52.21)
§ 52.022 WATER FOR FOUNTAINS AND LAWN SPRINKLING.
   The right is reserved to suspend the use of lawn fountains and hose for
sprinkling lawns and gardens whenever, in the opinion of the President and
Board of Trustees, the public exigencies require.
(Prior Code, § 52.22)
§ 52.023 UNLAWFUL USE OF WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to receive and obtain water service on
or for his or her property or on or for property under his or her control until
the water has been turned on by the proper official, employee or officer of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 52.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.024 SPECIFICATION OF MATERIALS FOR WATER MAINS AND HOUSE SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Water mains.
      (1)   Water distribution facilities shall include supply mains of not
less than six inches diameter installed at a minimum depth of four foot, six
inches. Supply mains shall conform to one of the two following alternates:
         (a)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic pipe conforming to ASTM D-2241
and approved by the National Sanitation Foundation (N.S.F.) Standard 14. The
pipe shall have a minimum working pressure of 160 p.s.i. with a standard
dimension ratio (outside diameter of pipe divided by the wall thickness) of 26.
The pipe shall have a gasketed joint with an integral bell which is a
homogeneous part of the pipe. The pipe shall conform to ASTM D-3139 and the
gasket shall conform to ASTM F-477. All pipe fittings shall be approved by the
N.S.F. and be of the same material as the supply main or shall be mechanical
joint ductile iron conforming to AWWA Specification for Class D fittings; or
         (b)   Ductile iron pipe conforming to AWWA (American Waterworks
Association) 1-151 and ANSI (American National Standards Institute) A 21.51.
The pipe shall be cement lined in accordance with AWWA C-104 and ANSI A21.4.
Joints shall be flanged mechanical joints or “push-on” rubber gaskets
conforming to AWWA C111 and ANSI A21.11.
      (2)   All fittings, valves, hydrants and water stub terminals to the
property line of each lot shall be installed to serve all properties within any
subdivision. The water supply system shall be designed in accordance with the
requirements of the state’s Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) and the
village’s Water Department. All water mains shall be installed in public
rights-of-way or in dedicated easements.
   (B)   House service lines. House service lines shall be minimum of three-
fourths inch diameter and shall be constructed of one of the two following
materials:
      (1)   Type “K” copper with a working pressure of 200 p.s.i. and approved
by the National Sanitation Foundation; or
      (2)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic water pipe conforming to ASTM D-
2441 with and SDR of 21 and a working pressure of 200 p.s.i.
(Prior Code, § 52.24) (Ord. 86-102, passed 4-21-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§  52.025 CONNECTION FEES FOR WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The owner or owners of any single-family dwelling or other building
located on property as described in division (B) below that desires or is
required to connect to the village’s water main extension pursuant to 52.020 of
this chapter shall, before the connection is made, pay to the Village Clerk a
connection fee as follows:
      (1)   A fee in the amount shown on the fee schedule of the village for
each single-family dwelling connected to the water main extension; and
      (2)   A fee in the amount shown on the fee schedule of the village for
each building other than a single-family dwelling that is connected to the
water main extension.
   (B)   The connection fees as prescribed in division (A) above shall apply to
each single-family dwelling or building required to be connected to the water
main extension running westerly from the junction of West Tazewell Street and
Hannibal Street a distance of 975 feet along the north side of Illinois State
Route 9 to the westerly edge of Lot 4 and the extension that travels under
Illinois State Route 9 from the west edge of Lot 4 to the center of Lot 5,
being located in the southeast quarter (SE 1/4) of Section 13, Township 24
North, Range 4 West of the Third Principal Meridian as shown on a certain
unrecorded plat of the water main extension dated 2-16-1996 and prepared by
Austin Engineering Company, Inc. A copy of the plat is on file in the office of
the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 52.25) (Ord. 96-102, passed 6-17-1996)
METERS
§ 52.040 WATER TO BE SUPPLIED THROUGH METERS.
   All water consumers supplied by the village shall be supplied through meters
only and shall pay for the water at the rates and in the manner hereinafter
specified.
(Prior Code, § 52.35)
§ 52.041 FAULTY METERS.
   Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair, or for any cause
fails promptly to register the water passing through the same, the consumer
shall be charged at the rate shown of the corresponding time of the previous
year under like conditions. If no record of the previous year exists, then it
shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the Waterworks to estimate or
determine so far as he or she can, the amount of water consumed during the time
such meter fails to operate, and the consumer shall pay the amount so
estimated.
(Prior Code, § 52.36)
§ 52.042 METER FOR MULTIPLE DWELLINGS.
   In all cases where one service pipe supplies two or more separate consumers
in a building, one meter may be placed at the service connection for either or
all of the consumers and the water rent, as registered by such meters, shall be
charged to and be payable by the owner of such premises or building.
(Prior Code, § 52.37)
§ 52.043 TAMPERING WITH METERS; APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, change or alter
any water meter, valve, pipe, fire hydrant, meter box or any apparatus in
connection with the waterworks system in the village at any time.
   (B)   However, this section shall not apply to the installing, repairing,
altering or changing of the private plumbing system or fixtures installed
privately on private property, and also shall not apply to pipes leading from
property lines to meter boxes, and it shall be unlawful for any person to turn
on any water valve, meter or water connection for the purpose of obtaining
water service to his or her property or the property of any other person.
(Prior Code, § 52.38) Penalty, see §
10.99
RATES AND BILLING
§ 52.055 WATER RATES; PERMITS.
    (A)   (1)   The following shall be the monthly rates charged for water
supplied by the village, with such water rates being based upon the amount of
water consumed as shown by water meters owned, installed and maintained by the
village:   
         (a)   First 1,000 gallons or a fraction thereof: $18.49;
         (b)   Each additional 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof: $8.65; and
         (c)   The minimum monthly charge for water service shall be $18.49 per
month.
      (2)   The village reserves the right to make such reasonable changes in
rates and in conditions herein established and to establish further rules and
regulations from time to time as may be found expeditious or necessary.
      (3)   All rates for water as set forth in division (A)(1) above shall
increase of 1.5% per year, to be effective on May 1 of each year; provided the
Board of Trustees, at its first regular meeting in March of each year, shall
review the then current status of the village’s Water and Sewer Fund to
determine if the rates currently in effect should be adjusted to properly
reflect changes in the financial condition of such fund.
      (4)   Each consumer that receives water and/or sewer service shall be
assessed a monthly debt service fee of $10 per unit to repay the village's 2017
infrastructure bond. The term "unit" shall mean (i) for buildings in a
residential zoning district, separate dwelling units; and (ii) in all other
zoning districts, each separate suite or unit which separate persons or
entities may occupy.
      (5)   (a)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the monthly rates for water
supplied for irrigation purposes (as determined by water meters installed and
approved for irrigation purposes only) at the volumes set forth below shall be
as follows:
            1.   For the first 1,000 gallons or a fraction thereof: $18.49;
            2.   Each additional 1,000 gallons or a fraction thereof up to
75,000 gallons: $8.65; and   
            3.   Each additional 1,000 gallons or a fraction thereof: $5.72.
         (b)   The debt service fee set forth in § 52.055 shall not apply to
billing on such irrigation meters if the debt service fee is charged to another
meter on the same property. For property outside the village limits, the rates
charged under this section shall be twice the rates shown above.
   (B)   Each application for connection pursuant to division (A) above shall
be accompanied by a fee as hereinafter provided:
      (1)   For a meter of three-fourths inch in diameter or less: $2,000;
      (2)   For a meter in excess of three-fourths inch in diameter, but no
greater than two inches in diameter: $3,500;
      (3)   For a meter in excess of two inches in diameter, but no greater
than four inches in diameter: $5,000; and
      (4)   For meters greater than four inches in diameter, the connection fee
will be determined on a case by case basis, taking into account the cost of the
meter and the cost and requirements of the project.
(Prior Code, § 52.50) (Ord. 05-109, passed 12-19-2005; Ord. 07-106, passed 9-
17-2007; Ord. 15-101, passed 5-4-2015; Ord. 15-111, passed 12-7-2015; Ord. 16-
103, passed 4-18-2016; Ord. 17-112, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 22-106, passed - -
2022; Ord. 23-105, passed 2-20-2023; Ord. 23-108, passed 4-3-2023; Ord. 23-111,
passed 7-5-2023; Ord. 24-106, passed 4-15-2024; Ord. 25-108, passed 3-17-2025)
§ 52.056 BILLING.
    Bills for water service shall be rendered monthly and shall be delinquent
ten days after their rendition and, in the event of failure to pay the bills
within the ten-day period, an additional charge of 10% shall be added to the
bill. Bills shall be sent to the owner of the property to which service is
provided at the address to which real estate tax bills are mailed.
(Prior Code, § 52.51) (Ord. 22-125, passed 12-5-2022)
BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 52.070 INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.
   If, in accordance with the state’s Plumbing Code, or in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her own expense, install such
an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the state’s
Plumbing Code and all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections
and tests made of such approved devices as required by the state’s Plumbing
Code and local regulations.
(Prior Code, § 52.60) (Ord. 89-101, passed 3-20-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.071 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY.
    No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the village enter the supply or distribution system of the village, unless
such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection
and use of such supply shall have been approved by the Superintendent of Water
and the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
(Prior Code, § 52.61) (Ord. 89-101, passed 3-20-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.072 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATION OF PROPERTIES USING PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years, or as
often as the Superintendent of Water shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five years.
(Prior Code, § 52.62) (Ord. 89-101, passed 3-20-1989)
§ 52.073 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE INSPECTOR; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the Water
Superintendent or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to enter at
any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection
control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property
so served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which he
or she may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such
property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.63) (Ord. 89-101, passed 3-20-1989)
§ 52.074 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Water is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as
he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall
not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and until a reconnection fee,
in an amount to be determined by the Village Board, is paid to the village.
   (B)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Superintendent of Water is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
(Prior Code, § 52.64) (Ord. 89-101, passed 3-20-1989)
§ 52.075 COST OF CLEAN-UP.
   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of clean-up of
the potable water supply system.
(Prior Code, § 52.65) (Ord. 89-101, passed 3-20-1989)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RULES OF OPERATION
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   EQUIPMENT; LOADS
      
76.   MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
78.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
In General
   
70.01   Definitions
Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws
   
70.15   Obedience to police officers
   
70.16   Public officers and employees to obey traffic code; exceptions
   
70.17   Traffic laws apply to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn
vehicles
   
70.18   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer
Traffic Signs, Signals and Markings
   
70.30   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.32   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.33   Lane-control signals
   
70.34   Flashing signals
   
70.35   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, markings or advertising signs
   
70.36   Interference with official traffic-control devices or railroad signs or
signals
   
70.37   Unlawful use or damage to highways, appurtenances and structures
   
70.38   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
70.39   Zones of quiet
   
70.40   No-turning signs and turning markers
   
70.41   Stop and yield signs
 
   
70.99   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings and not used for general traffic circulation.
(625 ILCS 5/1-102)
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any U.S.- or state-numbered route, controlled-access
highway or other major radial or circumferential street or highway designated
by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part of a major
arterial system of streets or highways.
(70 ILCS 1205/3-9)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper state,
county or local authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the Fire Department;
vehicles of a HazMat or technical rescue team authorized by a county board
under § 5-1127 of the Counties Code (55 ILCS 5/5-1127); ambulances; vehicles of
the state’s Department of Corrections; vehicles of the state’s Department of
Juvenile Justice; vehicles of the state’s Emergency Management Agency; vehicles
of the office of the state’s Fire Marshal; mine rescue and explosives emergency
response vehicles of the Department of Natural Resources; vehicles of the
state’s Department of Public Health; vehicles of the state’s Toll Highway
Authority with a gross vehicle weight rating of 9,000 pounds or more and those
identified as Highway Emergency Lane Patrol; vehicles of the state’s Department
of Transportation identified as Emergency Traffic Patrol; and vehicles of a
municipal or county emergency services and disaster agency, as defined by the
state’s Emergency Management Agency Act.
(625 ILCS 5/1-105)
   AUTOCYCLE. A three-wheel motor vehicle that has a steering wheel and seating
that does not require the operator to straddle or sit astride it.
(625 ILCS 5/1-104.2)
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices.
(625 ILCS 5/1-106)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying
more than ten persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-107)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business or
industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks or office
buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side, or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-108)
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-
hire or not-for-hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used in a
ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose, or a recreational
vehicle not being used commercially.
(625 ILCS 5/1-111.8)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street or roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-112)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway and, in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of a
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with the extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface,
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation as authorized in 625 ILCS 5/11-301.
(625 ILCS 5/1-113)
   DEPARTMENT. Except as otherwise designated, the Department of Transportation
of the state.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-116)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two non-
tandem wheeled device designed to transport only one person with an electric
propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of the device to 15 mph or
less.
(625 ILCS 5/1-117.7)
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled.
(625 ILCS 5/1-120)
   FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLE. Any vehicle, bicycle or electric personal assistive
mobility device that is designated or authorized by proper local authorities
for Fire Department use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-120.7)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in
combination, without load, plus the weight of load thereon.
(625 ILCS 5/1-125)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or located on public school property.
(625 ILCS 5/1-126)
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry; provided that, no farm wagon,
wagon trailer or like vehicle having a gross weight of more than 36,000 pounds,
shall be included hereunder.
(625 ILCS 5/1-130)
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone, or gravel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-131)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles,
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways joining at
any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 40 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (3)   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not
constitute an INTERSECTION.
(625 ILCS 5/1-132)
   LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL. An official traffic-control device consisting of an
electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a square or rectangular
design, and employing distinctive colors or symbols used to control the
direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the indication
applies.
(625 ILCS 5/1-135)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/1-136)
   LEASE. A written document vesting exclusive possession, use, control and
responsibility of the lessee during the periods the vehicle is operated by or
for the lessee for a specific period of time.
(625 ILCS 5/1-137)
   LICENSE TO DRIVE. Any driver’s license or any other license or permit to
operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of the state including:
      (1)   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
      (2)   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle, whether or
not the person holds a valid license or permit; and
      (3)   Any non-resident’s driving privilege, as defined herein.
(625 ILCS 5/1-138)
   LIMOUSINE. Any privately-owned First Division vehicle intended to be used
for the transportation of persons for-hire when the payment is not based on a
meter charge, but is prearranged for a designated destination.
(625 ILCS 5/1-139.1)
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, city, village and other local board or body
having authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the constitution and
laws of the state and each road district Highway Commissioner having that
authority.
(625 ILCS 5/1-140)
   LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE.
      (1)   A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals and an electric motor
of less than 750 watts that meets the requirements of one of the following
classes:
         (a)   CLASS 1 LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling
and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 20
miles per hour.
         (b)   CLASS 2 LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel the bicycle and
that is not capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of
20 miles per hour.
         (c)   CLASS 3 LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling
and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 28
miles per hour.
      (2)   A LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE is not a moped or a motor driven
cycle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-140.10)
   LOW-SPEED GAS BICYCLE. A two-wheeled or three-wheeled device with fully
operable pedals and a gasoline motor of less than one horsepower or 15 cubic
centimeter displacement that is operated at speeds of less than 20 miles per
hour.
(625 ILCS 5/1-140.15)
   MAIL. To deposit in the United States mail properly addressed and with
postage prepaid.
(625 ILCS 5/1-141)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power, motorized
wheelchairs, low-speed electric bicycles and low-speed gas bicycles. For this
section, MOTOR VEHICLES are divided into two divisions:
      (1)   First Division: motor vehicles designed for carrying not more than
ten persons; and
      (2)   Second Division: motor vehicles designed for carrying more than ten
persons, those designed or used for living quarters and those motor vehicles
which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or cargo, and those motor
vehicles of the First Division remodeled for use and used as motor vehicles of
the Second Division.
(625 ILCS 5/1-146)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than
150 cubic centimeter piston displacement, including motorized pedalcycles.
(625 ILCS 5/1-145.001)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding an autocycle or tractor.
(625 ILCS 5/1-147)
   MOPED. A motor-driven cycle, with or without optional power derived from
manually operated pedals, whose speed attainable in one mile is at least 20
mph, but not greater than 30 mph, and is equipped with a motor that produces
two brake horsepower or less. If an internal combustion engine is used, the
displacement shall not exceed 50 cubic centimeter displacement and the power
drive system shall not require the operator to shift gears.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.2)
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle, including a three-wheeled
vehicle, designed for and used by a person with disabilities, that is incapable
of a speed in excess of eight mph on level ground.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.3)
   MULTIFUNCTION SCHOOL ACTIVITY BUS. A school bus manufactured for the purpose
of transporting 11 or more persons, including the driver, whose purposes do not
include transporting students to and from home or school bus stops. A MFSAB is
prohibited from meeting the special requirements for school buses in 625 ILCS
5/12-801, 5/12-802(a), 5/12-803 and 5/12-805.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.3a-5)
   NON-COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not a commercial vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.6)
   NOT-FOR-HIRE. Operation of a commercial vehicle in furtherance of any
commercial or industrial enterprise, but not-for-hire.
(625 ILCS 5/1-153)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
which conform with the state manual, and not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/1-154)
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement, and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of the motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
(625 ILCS 5/1-155)
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading
merchandise or passengers.
(625 ILCS 5/1-156)
   PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle of the First Division, including a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than ten
persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-157)
   PEACE OFFICER. Any person who by virtue of his or her public employment is
vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
(625 ILCS 5/1-157.5)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or wearing in-line speed skates or riding a
skateboard, including a person with a physical, hearing or visual disability.
(625 ILCS 5/1-158)
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES. A natural person who, as determined by a licensed
physician, by a licensed physician assistant, by a licensed advanced practice
registered nurse, or by a licensed physical therapist:
      (1)   Cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace, cane,
crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair or other assistive
device;
      (2)   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that his or her
forced (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by
spirometry, is less than one liter or the arterial oxygen tension is less than
60 mm/hg on room air at rest;
      (3)   Uses portable oxygen;
      (4)   Has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person’s functional
limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV, according to
standards set by the American Heart Association;
      (5)   Is severely limited in the person’s ability to walk due to an
arthritic, neurological, oncological or orthopedic condition;
      (6)   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest because of one of the
above five conditions; or
      (7)   Is missing a hand or arm or has permanently lost the use of a hand
or arm.
(625 ILCS 5/1-159.1)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests and issue citations for violations of traffic regulations.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162)
   POLICE VEHICLE. Any vehicle, recreational off-highway vehicle, all-terrain
vehicle, watercraft, aircraft, bicycle or electric personal assistive mobility
device that is designated or authorized by proper local authorities for police
use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162.3)
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place where any person transacts his or her
principal business, or where he or she makes up and approves his or her
payroll, maintains a central file of records and maintains his or her principal
executive offices. In the event that not all of these functions are performed
in one place, then that place where a majority of these functions are
performed, or the place where the person does in fact principally transact and
control his or her business affairs shall be considered as the PRINCIPAL PLACE
OF BUSINESS.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162.5)
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership, and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-163)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
(625 ILCS 5/1-166)
   RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING. The intersection of stationary rails owned
or used in the operation of a railroad corporation across a highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-166.1)
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device, other than an official
traffic-control signal or device, erected in accordance with the laws governing
same and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the
approach of a railroad train or railroad track equipment.
(625 ILCS 5/1-167)
   RAILROAD TRACK EQUIPMENT. All vehicles operated upon rails for the purpose
of the maintenance of railroads including, but not limited to, all hi-rail
vehicles and on-track roadway maintenance machines, as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
214.7.
(625 ILCS 5/1-167.5)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(625 ILCS 5/1-168)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes, and not used commercially, nor owned by a commercial business.
(625 ILCS 5/1-169)
   REGISTRATION.
      (1)   The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates issued under the laws of the state pertaining to the registration of
vehicles.
      (2)   REGISTRATION includes digital registration plates and digital
registration stickers issued by the Secretary of State under § 3-401.5.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171)
   REGISTRATION STICKER.
      (1)   A device to be attached to a registration plate that will renew the
registration and registration plate or plates for a predetermined period, not
to exceed one registration year.
      (2)   REGISTRATION STICKER or STICKERS includes digital registration
plates and digital registration stickers issued by the Secretary of State under
§ 3-401.5.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171)
   REMOVE. Includes removing, defacing, covering or destroying.
   RESCUE SQUAD. A voluntary association of individuals, or a fire department,
dedicated to saving lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked
vehicles or other hazardous circumstances, and associated with some unit of
government.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171.6)
   RESCUE VEHICLE. Any publicly- or privately-owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, configured and equipped for the performance of access
and extrication of persons from hazardous or life- endangering situations, as
well as for the emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171.8)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
      (1)   The territory contiguous to and including a highway, not comprising
a business district, when the property on the highway for a distance of 300
feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
      (2)   For purposes of establishing maximum speed limits, a RESIDENCE
DISTRICT shall be at least a quarter of a mile long with residences or
residences and buildings in use for businesses spaced no more than 500 feet
apart.
(625 ILCS 5/1-172)
   RETAIL SALE. The act or attempted act of selling vehicles or otherwise
disposing of a vehicle to a person for use as a consumer.
(625 ILCS 5/1-174)
   REVOCATION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE. The termination by formal action of the
Secretary, of a person’s license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle on the
public highways, which termination shall not be subject to renewal or
restoration; except that, an application for a new license may be presented and
acted upon by the Secretary after the expiration of at least one year after the
date of revocation.
(625 ILCS 5/1-176)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision, unless one grants precedence to the other.
(625 ILCS 5/1-177)
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
(625 ILCS 5/1-178)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all the roadways collectively.
(625 ILCS 5/1-179)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(625 ILCS 5/1-181)
   SCHOOL BUS.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in division (2) below,
owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of the entity:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   Any public, private or religious nursery school.
      (2)   This definition does not include the following:
         (a)   A bus operated by a public utility, municipal corporation or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when the bus is not traveling a specific school bus route, but is:
            1.   On a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare-paying passengers;
            2.   Furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
field trips or other special trips or in connection with special events; or
            3.   Being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or
other educational facilities.
         (b)   A motor vehicle of the First Division; or
         (c)   A multi-function school-activity bus.
(625 ILCS 5/1-182)
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and so constructed its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-187)
   SHOULDER. The portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for
accommodating stopped vehicles or for emergency use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-187.1)
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPEED-CHANGE LANE. An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes.
(625 ILCS 5/1-193)
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
(625 ILCS 5/1-194)
   STATE. A state, territory or possession of the United States, the District
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or a province of the Dominion of
Canada.
(625 ILCS 5/1-195)
   STATE HIGHWAYS. Defined in the state’s Highway Code as the same may from
time to time be amended.
(625 ILCS 5/1-196)
   STATE POLICE. The Illinois State Police.
(625 ILCS 5/1-197)
   STOP or STOPPING.
      (1)   The complete cessation from movement.
(625 ILCS 5/1-199)
      (2)   Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign or
signal.
(625 ILCS 5/1-200)
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-201)
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. The portion of any city, village or incorporated town,
other than the business and residence districts.
(625 ILCS 5/1-203)
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right-of-way
to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when those signs are erected as provided in this title.
(625 ILCS 5/1-205)
   TOW TRUCK. Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used to
push, tow or draw vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar, towline or
auxiliary axle, or to render assistance to disabled vehicles.
(625 ILCS 5/1-205.1)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-207)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any official traffic-control device other than a
railroad sign or signal, whether manually, electrically or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to
proceed.
(625 ILCS 5/1-208)
   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS. Any provision of this code or other regulatory
ordinance the purpose of which is to directly control or improve traffic and
safety of both vehicles and pedestrians.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property, and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-209)
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an over-dimension permit when towed on a highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-210.01)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(625 ILCS 5/1-211)
   TRUCK CAMPER. A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is constructed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, travel or camping use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-211.01)
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
(625 ILCS 5/1-212)
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses,
and situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of one-quarter
mile or more.
(625 ILCS 5/1-214)
   URBAN AREA. An urban area is any incorporated or unincorporated area
developed primarily for residential or business purposes.
(625 ILCS 5/1-214.8)
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title
under 625 ILCS 5/3-101(d), except devices moved by human power, devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and snowmobiles, as defined in the
Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act (625 ILCS 40).
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise prescribed, a
device shall be considered to be a VEHICLE until such time it either comes
within the definition of a “junk vehicle” or a junking certificate is issued
for it.
      (3)   For this section, VEHICLES are divided into two divisions:
         (a)   First Division: those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons; and
         (b)   Second Division: those vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten persons; those designed or used for living quarters; those which
are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight or cargo; and those
vehicles of the First Division remodeled for use and used as vehicles of the
Second Division.
(625 ILCS 5/1-217)
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
§ 70.15 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, firefighter, person authorized by the village
to direct traffic, or school crossing guard invested by law with authority to
direct, control or regulate traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/11-203) (Prior Code, § 70.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC CODE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or
operated by the United States, the state or any county, city, town, district or
any other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this
section, and subject to specific exceptions as set forth in this title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (C)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions.
   (D)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion, or visual signals meeting the
requirements of 625 ILCS 5/12-215.
   (E)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do these provisions protect the driver from the consequences
of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (F)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles and equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the highway, but shall apply to such persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from work.
(625 ILCS 5/11-205) (Prior Code, § 70.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving an animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights, and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this chapter, except those
provisions of this chapter which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(625 ILCS 5/11-206) (Prior Code, § 70.12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who,
having been given a visual or audible signal by a police officer directing the
driver or operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, willfully fails or
refuses to obey that direction, increases his or her speed, extinguishes his or
her lights or otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer. The signal
given by the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren or a red or blue
light. However, the officer giving the signal shall be in police uniform and,
if driving a vehicle, the vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official
police vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 70.13) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
§ 70.30 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control accordance with this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
   (C)   No provision of this traffic code, for which official traffic-control
devices are required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, the section shall be effective even though no devices are
erected or in place.
   (D)   Whenever any official traffic-control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this traffic code, the
device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority, and comply with the requirements of this traffic
code, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic-control signal on which
no signal light facing the vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
the intersection, in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a
stop sign.
   (F)   Any violation of division (A) that occurs within a designated highway
construction zone or maintenance zone shall result in a fine of no less than
$100 and no more than $1,000.
(625 ILCS 5/11-305) (Prior Code, § 70.30) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively one at a time or
in combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except for
special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall
yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by the arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. This vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, as
provided in §
70.32 of this chapter, pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the
sole green signal is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any
marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.32 of this chapter, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to
cross the roadway before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall
then start to cross the roadway.
   (C)   Flashing yellow arrow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a flashing yellow arrow indication may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the
arrow and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a flashing yellow arrow indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.32 of this chapter, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked crosswalk that crosses the lane or lanes used to depart the
intersection by traffic controlled by the flashing yellow arrow indication.
Pedestrians shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the
intersection at the time that the flashing yellow signal indication is first
displayed.
   (D)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(3) and (D)(4) below, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if there is no such
crosswalk, then before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing
until an indication to proceed is shown.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(3) and (D)(4) below, vehicular
traffic facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the intersection to
make the movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering the intersection
to make a movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the crosswalk on
the near side of the intersection or, if there is no such crosswalk, then
before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication
permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is shown.
      (3)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn and local
authorities by ordinance or state authorities by rule or regulation prohibit
any such turn, vehicular traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously
enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-way street
into a one-way street, after stopping as required by divisions (D)(1) or (D)(2)
above. After stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle
in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or
within the intersection or junction or roadways. Such driver shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk.
      (4)   After stopping as required by divisions (D)(1) or (D)(2) above, the
driver of a motorcycle or bicycle, facing a steady red signal which fails to
change to a green signal within a reasonable period of time not less than 120
seconds because of a signal malfunction or because the signal has failed to
detect the arrival of the motorcycle or bicycle due to the vehicle’s size or
weight, shall have the right to proceed, after yielding the right-of-way to
oncoming traffic facing a green signal, subject to the rules applicable after
making a stop at a stop sign as required by §
70.41 of this chapter.
      (5)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as
provided in §
70.32 of this chapter, pedestrians facing a steady circular red or red arrow
signal alone shall not enter the roadway.
   (E)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable, except as to provisions which by their nature can
have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or a marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made or, in the absence of
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(625 ILCS 5/11-306) (Prior Code, § 70.31) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Don’t Walk” or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, these signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   “Walk” or walking person symbol. Pedestrians facing this signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and shall be given
the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don’t Walk” or upraised palm signal. No pedestrian shall start to
cross the roadway in the direction of this signal, but any pedestrian who has
partly completed his or her crossing on the “Walk” signal or upraised palm
symbol shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the “Don’t Walk”
signal or upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady or flashing.
(625 ILCS 5/11-307) (Prior Code, § 70.32) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 LANE-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever lane-control signals are used in conjunction with official signs,
they shall have the following meanings.
   (A)   Downward-pointing green arrow.
      (1)   A driver facing this indication is permitted to drive in the lane
over which the arrow signal is located.
      (2)   Otherwise, he or she shall obey all other traffic controls present
and follow normal safe driving practices.
   (B)   Red X symbol. A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise, he or
she shall obey all other traffic controls and follow normal safe driving
practices.
   (C)   Yellow X (steady). A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   (D)   Flashing yellow arrow. A driver facing this indication may use the
lane only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
(625 ILCS 5/11-308) (Prior Code, § 70.33) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in
conjunction with a traffic- control device, it shall require obedience by
vehicular traffic as follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(625 ILCS 5/11-309) (Prior Code, § 70.34) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS OR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be,
or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of an official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any traffic-control device to
be used on any street or highway in the village which does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information,
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (F)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection of state’s
Adopt-A-Highway signs by the village as provided in the state’s Adopt-A-Highway
Act, 605 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
(625 ILCS 5/11-310) (Prior Code, § 70.35) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device, or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(625 ILCS 5/11-311) (Prior Code, § 70.36) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES AND STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure or damage any public
highway or street, or any bridge or culvert, or to willfully damage, injure or
remove any sign, signpost or structure upon or used or constructed in
connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof, or for
the protection or regulation of traffic thereon, by any willfully unusual,
improper or unreasonable use thereof, or by willfully careless driving or use
of any vehicle thereon, or by willful mutilation, defacing, destruction or
removal thereof.
(625 ILCS 5/11-312) (Prior Code, § 70.37) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   The village’s Street Department, with reference to traffic-control signs,
signals or markers owned by the village, is authorized to indicate the
ownership of the signs, signals or markers in letters not less than three-
eighths inch, or more than three-quarters inch in height, by use of a metal
stamp, etching or other permanent means. Except for employees of the village’s
Street Department, police officers, contractors and their employees engaged in
a highway construction contract or work on the highway approved by the village,
it is unlawful for any person to possess a sign, signal or marker so
identified.
(625 ILCS 5/11-313) (Prior Code, § 70.38) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device, except in an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 70.39) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.40 NO-TURNING SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   (A)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
the sign.
   (B)   When authorized marks, buttons or other indications are placed within
an intersection indicating the course to be travelled by vehicles, no driver of
a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
(Prior Code, § 70.40) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.41 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs, as authorized in 625 ILCS 5/11-302.
   (B)    Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal, every driver of a vehicle and every motorperson of a streetcar
approaching a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, or if none then at the point nearest the
intersection roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for
safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1204) (Prior Code, § 70.41) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF OPERATION
Section
Speed Restrictions
   
71.001   Speed limits
   
71.002   Special speed limits while passing schools
   
71.003   Maximum attainable operating speed
   
71.004   Minimum speed regulation
Turning and Starting; Signals
   
71.015   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.016   Limitations on U-turns
   
71.017   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.018   When signal required
   
71.019   Signal by hand and arm or signal device
   
71.020   Method of giving hand and arm signals
Overtaking and Passing
   
71.035   Driving on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.036   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.037   Overtaking vehicles on the left
   
71.038   When overtaking on the right is permitted
   
71.039   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.040   Meeting or overtaking school bus
   
71.041   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.042   No-passing zones
   
71.043   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
Right-of-Way
   
71.055   Vehicles approaching or entering intersection
   
71.056   Vehicle turning left
   
71.057   Vehicles entering stop crosswalk
   
71.058   Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection
   
71.059   Merging traffic
   
71.060   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   
71.061   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.062   Funeral processions
Special Stops Required
   
71.075   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train or railroad track
equipment
   
71.076   Certain vehicles must stop at all railroad grade crossings
   
71.077   Emerging from alley, building, private road or driveway
   
71.078   Stop when traffic obstructed
Prohibitions
   
71.090   Backing
   
71.091   Following vehicle too closely
   
71.092   Obstruction of driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
71.093   Opening vehicle doors
   
71.094   Coasting
   
71.095   Following fire apparatus; driving over fire hose
   
71.096   Driving upon sidewalk
   
71.097   Use of roller skates, coasters or similar devices
   
71.098   Putting glass or other hazardous materials on highway prohibited
   
71.099   Obstructing person in highways
   
71.100   Farm tractor operation
   
71.101   Driving on controlled-access highway
   
71.102   Jacobson braking systems
Parades
   
71.115   Definitions
   
71.116   Permit required
   
71.117   Application for permit
   
71.118   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.119   Notice of rejection of permit application
   
71.120   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.121   Alternative permit
   
71.122   Notice to village and other officials when permit issued
   
71.123   Contents of permit
   
71.124   Duties of permittee
   
71.125   Public conduct during parades
   
71.126   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.999   Penalty
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.001 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of the village at a speed
which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or endangers the safety of any person or
property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway, or when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased
as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, URBAN DISTRICT does not include any
interstate highway as defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-133.1, which includes all
highways under the jurisdiction of the state’s Toll Highway Authority.
   (C)   No person may drive a vehicle upon any highway of the village at a
speed which is greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit
established by divisions (D), (E), (F), (G) or (H) of this section, by 625 ILCS
5/11-605 or by a regulation or ordinance made under this chapter.
   (D)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in an urban district (as defined in § 70.01 of this
code of ordinances) for all vehicles is:
      (1)   Thirty mph; and
      (2)   Fifteen mph in an alley.
(625 ILCS 5/11-601(a) - (c))
   (D)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in a non-urban district shall be as determined under
625 ILCS 5/11-601.
(Prior Code, § 71.001) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate speed, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-1 and 625 ILCS 5/11-604
§ 71.002 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS.
   (A)   School zones.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, SCHOOL means the following
entities:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   A public, private or religious nursery school.
      (2)   On a school day when school children are present and so close
thereto that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the
motorized traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of 20 mph while passing a school zone, or while traveling on a roadway on
public school property or upon any public thoroughfare where children pass
going to and from school.
      (3)   For the purpose of section, a SCHOOL DAY shall begin at 7:00 a.m.
and shall conclude at 4:00 p.m.
      (4)   This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets and maintained by the village wherein the school zone is
located. The signs shall give proper due warning that a school zone is being
approached, and shall indicate the school zone and the maximum speed limit in
effect during school days when school children are present. Nothing in this
chapter shall prohibit the use of electronic speed-detecting devices within 500
feet of signs within a special school speed zone indicating the zone, as
defined in this section, nor shall evidence obtained thereby be inadmissible in
any prosecution for speeding provided the use of the device shall apply only to
the enforcement of the speed limit in the special school speed zone.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605(a))
      (5)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a special school speed zone
indicating the zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence obtained
thereby be inadmissible in any prosecution for speeding, provided the use of
the device shall apply only to the enforcement of the speed limit in the
special school speed zone.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605(c))
   (B)   Special limit while traveling through highway construction or
maintenance speed zones.
      (1)   (a)   A person may not operate a motor vehicle in a construction or
maintenance speed zone at a speed in excess of the posted speed limit when
workers are present.
         (b)   A person may not operate a motor vehicle in a construction or
maintenance speed zone at a speed in excess of the posted speed limit when
workers are not present.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a construction or maintenance
speed zone indicating the zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence
obtained by use of those devices be inadmissible in any prosecution for
speeding, provided the use of the device shall apply only to the enforcement of
the speed limit in the construction or maintenance speed zone.
      (3)   (a)   As used in this section, a CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE SPEED
ZONE is an area in which the Department, Toll Highway Authority or local agency
has posted signage advising drivers that a construction or maintenance speed
zone is being approached, or in which the Department, Authority or local agency
has posted a lower speed limit with a highway construction or maintenance speed
zone special speed limit sign after determining that the preexisting
established speed limit through a highway construction or maintenance project
is greater than is reasonable or safe with respect to the conditions expected
to exist in the construction or maintenance speed zone.
         (b)   If it is determined that the preexisting established speed limit
is safe with respect to the conditions expected to exist in the construction or
maintenance speed zone, additional speed limit signs which conform to the
requirements of this division (B)(3) shall be posted.
         (c)   Highway construction or maintenance speed zone special speed
limit signs shall be of a design approved by the Department. The signs must
give proper due warning that a construction or maintenance speed zone is being
approached and must indicate the maximum speed limit in effect. The signs also
must state the amount of the minimum fine for a violation.
      (4)   The Illinois State Police and the village’s Police Department have
concurrent jurisdiction over any violation of this division (B) that occurs on
an interstate highway.
      (5)   For a second or subsequent violation of this division (B) within
two years of the date of the previous violation, the Secretary of State shall
suspend the driver’s license of the violator for a period of 90 days. This
suspension shall only be imposed if the current violation of this division (B)
and at least one prior violation of this division (B) occurred during a period
when workers were present in the construction or maintenance zone.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605.1)
(Prior Code, § 71.002) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 MAXIMUM ATTAINABLE OPERATING SPEED.
   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle on any street or highway
in the village where the minimum allowable speed on that street or highway, as
posted, is greater than the maximum attainable operating speed of the vehicle.
Maximum attainable operating speed shall be determined by the manufacturer of
the vehicle and clearly published in the manual of specifications and
operation, or it shall be determined by applicable rule and regulation
promulgated by the Secretary of State.
(625 ILCS 5/11-611) (Prior Code, § 71.003) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and regular movement of traffic, except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation of his or her vehicle or in compliance with law.
(625 ILCS 5/11-606(a)) (Prior Code, § 71.004) Penalty, see §
71.999
TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
§ 71.015 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows.
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle and,
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   The State Department of Transportation and local authorities in
their respective jurisdictions may cause official traffic-control devices to be
placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that
a different course from that specified in this section be traveled by vehicles
turning at an intersection, and when such devices are so placed no driver of a
vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and
required by those devices.
   (B)   Where a special lane for making left turns by drivers proceeding in
opposite directions has been indicated by official traffic-control devices:
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane; and
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane, except when preparing
for or making a left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or
making a U-turn when otherwise permitted by law.
(625 ILCS 5/11-801) (Prior Code, § 71.020) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.016 LIMITATIONS ON U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where the
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(625 ILCS 5/11-802) (Prior Code, § 71.021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.017 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked, unless
and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(625 ILCS 5/11-803) (Prior Code, § 71.022) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.018 WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the highway as required in §
71.015 of this chapter, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway,
or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course, or move right or left upon a
roadway unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person may so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, change lanes, otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, move right or left upon a highway, or when
required must be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet
traveled by the vehicle within a business or residence district, and the signal
must be given continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by
the vehicle outside a business or residence district.
   (C)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this chapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
   (D)   The electric turn signal device required in 625 ILCS 5/12-208 must be
used and operated as prescribed in division (B) above to indicate an intention
to turn, change lanes, turn a vehicle from a direct course, move right or left
upon a highway, or start from a parallel parked position. Unless the conditions
of division (B) above are met, an electric turn signal device required in 625
ILCS 5/12-208 shall not be left in the on position and must not be flashed on
one side only on a parked or disabled vehicle, or flashed as a courtesy or “do
pass” signal to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear. However,
signal devices may be flashed simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle
to indicate the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care
in approaching, overtaking and passing.
(625 ILCS 5/11-804) (Prior Code, § 71.023) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.019 SIGNAL BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device conforming to
the requirements provided in 625 ILCS 5/12-208.
(625 ILCS 5/11-805) (Prior Code, § 71.024) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.020 METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the
vehicle in the following manner, and the signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward; except that, a person
operating a bicycle may extend the right hand and arm horizontally and to the
right side of the bicycle; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease of speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(625 ILCS 5/11-806) (Prior Code, § 71.025) Penalty, see §
71.999
OVERTAKING AND PASSING
§ 71.035 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing those movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic; or
      (5)   Whenever there is a single-track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right-of-way on the pavement to the other
vehicle.
   (B)   Upon a two-lane roadway, providing for two-way movement of traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction, or
when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic, and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the
lanes, or except as permitted under division (A)(2) above. However, this
division (C) shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the
centerline in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road or
driveway.
   (D)   (1)   Upon an interstate highway or fully access-controlled freeway, a
vehicle may not be driven in the left lane, except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle.
      (2)   Division (D)(1) above does not apply:
         (a)   When no other vehicle is directly behind the vehicle in the left
lane;
         (b)   When traffic conditions and congestion make it impractical to
drive in the right lane;
         (c)   When snow and other inclement weather conditions make it
necessary to drive in the left lane;
         (d)   When obstructions or hazards exist in the right lane;
         (e)   When a vehicle change lanes to comply with 625 ILCS 5/11-907 and
5/11-908;
         (f)   When, because of highway design, a vehicle must be driven in the
left lane when preparing to exit;
         (g)   On toll highways when necessary to use I-Pass, and on toll and
other highways when driving in the left lane is required to comply with an
official traffic-control device; or
         (h)   To law enforcement vehicles, ambulances and other emergency
vehicles engaged in official duties an vehicles engaged in highway maintenance
and construction operation.
(625 ILCS 5/11-701) (Prior Code, § 71.040) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.036 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(625 ILCS 5/11-702) (Prior Code, § 71.041) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.037 OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and special
rules otherwise stated in this chapter.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall the movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal, and shall not increase the speed of his
or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the left
of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed lane
of traffic available to permit the passing maneuver safely.
   (D)   The operator of a motor vehicle overtaking a bicycle or individual
proceeding in the same direction on a highway shall leave a safe distance, but
not less than three feet, when passing the bicycle or individual and shall
maintain that distance until safely past the overtaken bicycle or individual.
   (E)   A person driving a motor vehicle shall not, in a reckless manner,
drive the motor vehicle unnecessarily close, to, toward or near a bicyclist,
pedestrian or a person riding a horse or driving an animal drawn vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-703(a) - (e)) (Prior Code, § 71.042) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.038 WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle with three or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle; and
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of any
other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed pavement
to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less than eight
feet. This division (B) does not apply to devices propelled by human power.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting the movement in safety. This movement
shall not be made by driving off the roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-704) (Prior Code, § 71.043) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.039 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   Passing on the left.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this chapter, and unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction, or any vehicle overtaken.
      (2)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to an authorized
lane of travel as soon as practicable and, in the event the passing movement
involves the use of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(625 ILCS 5/11-705)
   (B)   Conditions where passing on the left is prohibited.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway under
the following conditions:
         (a)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within a distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction;
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing; and
         (c)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of
any bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
      (2)   The limitations in division (B)(1) above do not apply upon a one-
way roadway, nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width
for two or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction, nor to the driver of
a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road or driveway when the
movements can be made with safety.
(625 ILCS 5/11-706)
(Prior Code, § 71.044) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.040 MEETING OR OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop the vehicle before meeting or
overtaking, from either direction, any school bus stopped at any location for
the purpose of receiving or discharging pupils. The stop is required before
reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus the visual
signals as specified in 625 ILCS 5/12-803 and 5/12-805. The driver of the
vehicle shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the driver of
the vehicle is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or the visual
signals are no longer actuated.
   (B)   The stop signal arm required by 625 ILCS 5/12-803 shall be extended
after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be closed before the school bus is placed in
motion again. The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other time.
   (C)   The alternately flashing red signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system required by 625 ILCS 5/12-805 shall be actuated after the school
bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or discharging
pupils and shall be turned off before the school bus is placed in motion again.
The red signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time, except as
provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   (1)   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an eight-lamp
flashing signal system required by 625 ILCS 5/12-805 shall be actuated
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the school bus
before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils within an
urban area, and during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by the school
bus outside an urban area. The amber signal lamps shall remain actuated until
the school bus is stopped. The amber signal lamps shall not be actuated at any
other time.
      (2)   The alternately flashing headlamps permitted by 625 ILCS 5/12-805
may be operated while the alternately flashing red or amber signal maps
required by that section are actuated.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway having four or more lanes which
permits at least two lanes of traffic to travel in opposite directions need not
stop the vehicle upon meeting a school bus which is stopped in the opposing
roadway; and need not stop the vehicle when driving upon a controlled access
highway when passing a school bus traveling in either direction that is stopped
in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved part of the controlled
access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to cross.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1414(a) - (e))
(Prior Code, § 71.045) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.041 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only
to the right of the island.
   (C)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across or within any dividing space, barrier or
section, except through an opening in the physical barrier, or dividing
section, or space, or at a cross-over or intersection as established by public
authority.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle may turn left across a paved non-curbed
dividing space unless prohibited by an official traffic-control device.
(625 ILCS 5/11-708) (Prior Code, § 71.046) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.042 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The village’s Board of Trustees is authorized to determine those
portions of any highway within the village where overtaking and passing or
driving on the left of the roadway would be especially hazardous and may, by
appropriate signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of
the zones and, when signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an
ordinarily observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the
directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in division (A) above, no driver may at any time drive on the left
side of the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any
pavement striping designed to mark the no-passing zone throughout its length.
   (C)   This section does not apply under the conditions described in §
71.035(A)(2) of this chapter, nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into
or from an alley, private road or driveway. The pavement striping designed to
mark the no-passing zone may be crossed from the left-hand lane for the purpose
of completing a pass that was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the
driver’s direction of travel.
(625 ILCS 5/11-707) (Prior Code, § 71.047) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.043 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from that lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for two-
way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane,
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and the allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices.
   (C)   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such device.
Drivers must obey lane designation signing, except when it is necessary to use
a different lane to make a turning maneuver.
   (D)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
   (E)   A person is not in violation of this section if he or she is complying
with 625 ILCS 5/11-907, 5/11-907.5, or 5/11-908.
(625 ILCS 5/11-709) (Prior Code, § 71.048) Penalty, see §
71.999
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.055 VEHICLES APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different roadways
at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left must
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right. This rule may be modified
at through highways or streets and where otherwise inconsistent with the
provisions of this traffic code.
(625 ILCS 5/11-901) (Prior Code, § 71.060) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.056 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection
or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed
as soon as a safe interval occurs.
(625 ILCS 5/11-902) (Prior Code, § 71.061) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.057 VEHICLES ENTERING STOP CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection, or flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked
crosswalk between intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering
the nearest crosswalk and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at
either edge of the roadway shall have the right-of-way over vehicles so
stopped.
   (B)   Drivers of vehicles having so yielded the right-of-way to pedestrians
entering or within the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
(625 ILCS 5/11-903) (Prior Code, § 71.062) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.058 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line but if none, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway, or which
is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed as soon as a safe interval
occurs.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but
if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, of
if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
   (D)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, the collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
(625 ILCS 5/11-904) (Prior Code, § 71.063) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.059 MERGING TRAFFIC.
   Notwithstanding the right-of-way provision in §
71.055 of this chapter, at an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for
merging traffic, the driver of each vehicle on the converging roadways is
required to adjust his or her vehicular speed and lateral position so as to
avoid a collision with another vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-905) (Prior Code, § 71.064) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.060 VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley,
building, private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway to be entered.
(625 ILCS 5/11-906) (Prior Code, § 71.065) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.061 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this chapter, or
a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual
signal, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
shall, if necessary to permit the safe passage of the emergency vehicle, stop
and remain in that position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
(625 ILCS 5/11-907(a)(1))
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-907(b))
(Prior Code, § 71.066) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Additional offenses; statutory penalties, see 625 ILCS 5/11-907
§ 71.062 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising the procession have their headlights and hazard lights
lighted, subject to the following conditions and exceptions.
      (1)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an
audible or visible signal.
      (2)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer.
      (3)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic-control signals, but when the leading
vehicle has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with the signal or
after stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in the procession may
proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal, and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his or her vehicle in the funeral procession, except when authorized to
do so by a traffic officer or when the vehicle is an authorized emergency
vehicle giving audible or visible signal.
   (C)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form
a procession or convoy and have their headlights or hazard lights or both
lighted for the purpose of securing the right-of-way granted by this section to
funeral processions.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicles in the procession if the overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   (E)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when the vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in the procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may utilize
funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers or flashing hazard warning
signal flashers to identify the individual vehicles in such a procession.
   (F)   In the absence of law enforcement traffic-control assistance for a
funeral procession, a funeral director or his or her designee may direct
traffic during a funeral procession.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1420) (Prior Code, § 71.067) Penalty, see §
71.999
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 71.075 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN OR RAILROAD TRACK
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing where the driver is not always required to stop, the person must
exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad track across a
highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in
this section, the driver shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet,
from the nearest rail of the railroad, and shall not proceed until the tracks
are clear and he or she can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall
apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagger gives or continues
to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or railroad
track equipment;
         (c)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a
highway crossing emits a warning signal and the train or railroad track
equipment, by reason of its speed or nearness to the crossing, is an immediate
hazard;
         (d)   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing; or
         (e)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
      (2)   Whenever any person driving a commercial motor vehicle, as defined
in 625 ILCS 5/6-500, approaches a railroad grade crossing where the driver is
not always required to stop, the person must exercise due care and caution as
the existence of a railroad track across a highway is a warning of danger, and
under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver shall stop
within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of the railroad
and shall not proceed until the tracks are clear and he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues
to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or railroad
track equipment;
         (c)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a
highway crossing emits a warning signal and such railroad train or railroad
track equipment, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard;
         (d)   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to such crossing; or
         (e)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
      (3)   Whenever a person driving a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in
625 ILCS 5/6-500 approaches a railroad grade crossing where the driver is not
always required to stop, but must slow down, the person must exercise due care
and caution as the existence of a railroad track across a highway is a warning
of danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the
driver shall slow down within 50 feet, but not less that 15 feet, from the
nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until he or she checks that
the tracks are clear of an approaching train or railroad track equipment.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   The Department, and village with the approval of the Department, are
hereby authorized to designate particularly dangerous highway grade crossings
or railroads and to erect stop signs thereat. When such stop signs are erected
the driver of any vehicle shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet,
from the nearest rail of the railroad, and shall proceed only upon exercising
due care.
   (D)   At any railroad grade crossing provided with railroad crossbuck signs,
without automatic, electric or mechanical signal devices, crossing gates or a
human flagger giving a signal of the approach or passage of a train or railroad
track equipment, the driver of a vehicle shall in obedience to the railroad
crossbuck sign, yield the right-of-way and slow down to a speed reasonable for
the existing conditions and shall stop, if required for safety, at a clearly
marked stopped line, or if no stop line, within 50 feet, but not less than 15
feet, from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until he or
she can do so safely. If a driver is involved in a collision at a railroad
crossing or interferes with the movement of a train or railroad track equipment
after driving past the railroad crossbuck sign, the collision or interference
is prima facie evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
   (E)   No person shall, while driving a commercial motor vehicle, fail to
negotiate a railroad-highway grade railroad crossing because of insufficient
undercarriage clearance.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1201(a) - (e)) (Prior Code, § 71.080) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.076 CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks at grade, stop that vehicle within 50 feet, but not
less than 15 feet, from the nearest rail, and while so stopped, shall listen
and look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment, and shall not
proceed until that movement can be made with safety:
      (1)   Any Second Division vehicle carrying passengers for hire;
      (2)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school buses
in 625 ILCS 5/12-801, 5/12-803 and 5/12-805. The driver of the bus, in addition
to complying with all other applicable requirements of this division (A), must
also turn off all noise-producing accessories, including heater blowers,
defroster fans, auxiliary fans and radios and open the service door and
driver’s window, before crossing a railroad track or tracks; and
      (3)   Any other vehicle which is required by federal or state law to be
placarded when carrying as a cargo or part of a cargo “hazardous material,” as
defined in the state’s Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (430 ILCS 30/3).
After stopping as required in this section, the driver shall proceed only in a
gear not requiring a change of gears during the crossing, and the driver shall
not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks.
   (B)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks at grade, stop such vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail and, while so stopped, shall listen and
look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment and shall not
proceed until such movement can be made with safety:
      (1)   A commercial motor vehicle, as defined in 625 ILCS 5/6-500,
carrying passengers for hire;
      (2)   Any bus that meets all the special requirements for school buses in
625 ILCS 5/12- 801, 625 ILCS 5/12-803, 625 ILCS 5/12-805 and is designed to
transport 16 or more persons, including the driver. The driver of the bus, in
addition to complying with all other applicable requirements of this division,
must also (i) turn off all noise producing accessories, including heater
blowers, defroster fans, auxiliary fans, and radios, and (ii) open the service
door and driver’s window, before crossing a railroad track or tracks;
      (3)   Any other vehicle which is required by federal or state law to be
placarded when carrying as a cargo or part of a cargo hazardous material as
defined in the Illinois Hazardous Materials Transportation Act.
      (4)   After stopping as required in this section, the driver shall
proceed only in a gear not requiring a change of gears during the crossing, and
the driver shall not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks.
   (C)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   At any railroad grade crossing where traffic is controlled by a
police officer or flagger;
      (2)   At any railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning traffic-
control signal transmitting a green indication which, under law, permits the
vehicle to proceed across the railroad tracks without slowing or stopping;
except that, division (A) above shall apply to any school bus;
      (3)   At any streetcar grade crossing within a business or residence
district; or
      (4)   At any abandoned industrial or spur track railroad grade crossing
designated as exempt by the state’s Commerce Commission and marked with an
official sign as authorized in the state’s Manual of Uniform Traffic-Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1202) (Prior Code, § 71.081)  Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.077 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road or
driveway within an urban area shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving into the sidewalk area extending across the alley, building entrance,
road or driveway or, in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the
point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic thereon, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrians as may be necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1205) (Prior Code, § 71.082) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.078 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk or railroad grade crossing to accommodate
the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   (1)   No driver shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there
is sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed.
      (2)   No driver operating a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in 625
ILCS 5/6-500 shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1425) (Prior Code, § 71.083)  Penalty, see §
71.999
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.090 BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any shoulder or
roadway of any controlled- access highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1402) (Prior Code, § 71.095) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.091 FOLLOWING VEHICLE TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles
and the traffic upon and conditions of the street or highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-710) (Prior Code, § 71.096) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.092 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar shall ride in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s or motorman’s view ahead or to the sides, or to
interfere with his or her control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle or
streetcar.
   (C)   No passenger on a school bus may ride or stand in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s view ahead or to the side or to the rear, or to
interfere with his or her control of the driving mechanism of the bus.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1406) (Prior Code, § 71.097) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.093 OPENING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1407) (Prior Code, § 71.098) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.094 COASTING.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the gears or transmission of the vehicle in neutral.
   (B)   The driver of a truck or bus when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the clutch disengaged.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1410) (Prior Code, § 71.099) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.095 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall
not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
500 feet or stop the vehicle within 500 feet of any fire apparatus stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1411)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street, private road or driveway to be used at
any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official
in command.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1412)
(Prior Code, § 71.100) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.096 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any vehicle moved exclusively by
human power, to any electric personal assistive mobility device, nor to any
motorized wheelchair.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to limit or preempt the
authority of any home rule or non-home rule unit of the village from regulating
or prohibiting the use of electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1412.1)
   (C)   A person may not operate an electric personal assistive mobility
device upon a public sidewalk at a speed greater than eight mph.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1412.2)
(Prior Code, § 71.101) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.097 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, skateboard or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except upon streets set aside as play
streets when authorized by the traffic authority.
(Prior Code, § 71.102) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.098 PUTTING GLASS OR OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw, spill or deposit upon any highway any bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any litter, as defined in the Litter Control
Act, 415 ILCS 105/3.
   (B)   Any person who violates division (A) above upon any highway shall
immediately remove the material or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other debris, except any hazardous substance as defined in
415 ILCS 5/3.215, hazardous waste as defined in 415 ILCS 5/3.220, and
potentially infectious medical waste as defined in 415 ILCS 5/3.360, dropped
upon the highway from such vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1413) (Prior Code, § 71.103) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.099 OBSTRUCTING PERSON IN HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay, or
willfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any highway within the
village, or offer for barter or sale merchandise on the highway so as to
interfere with the effective movement of traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1416) (Prior Code, § 71.104) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.100 FARM TRACTOR OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a farm tractor on a highway in the village
unless the tractor is being used as an implement of husbandry in connection
with farming operations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the use of a farm tractor as an
implement of husbandry in connection with farming operations shall be deemed to
include use of the tractor in connection with the transportation of
agricultural products and of farm machinery, equipment and supplies, as well as
the transportation of the implement of husbandry from its place of purchase to
its place of storage, in connection with the obtaining of repairs of the
implement of husbandry, and the towing of a registered truck of not more than
8,000 pounds for use as return transportation after the tractor is left at the
place of work or repair.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1418) (Prior Code, § 71.105) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.101 DRIVING ON CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person may drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway,
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
(625 ILCS 5/11-711) (Prior Code, § 71.106) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.102 JACOBSON BRAKING SYSTEMS.
   It is unlawful for the driver or operator of a motor vehicle equipped with
an engine braking system to use or engage such device within the corporate
limits of the village.
(Ord. 05-107, passed 11-7-2005) Penalty, see §
71.999
PARADES
§ 71.115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the village, or “cruising,” as defined above.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
(Prior Code, § 71.120)
§ 71.116 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized village official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities; provided, the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; and
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 71.121) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.117 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Procedure. A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an
application with the Chief of Police or other authorized village official on
forms provided by such officer.
   (B)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days, or not more than 60 days, before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (C)   Contents. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (D)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the village’s Board of
Trustees from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 71.122)
§ 71.118 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official shall issue a
permit when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the village to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the village;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
village other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit; and
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.123) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.119 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.124)
§ 71.120 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the village’s Board of Trustees. The appeal shall be taken within 30
days after notice of denial. The village’s Board of Trustees shall act on the
appeal within 30 days after its receipt.
(Prior Code, § 71.125)
§ 71.121 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.126)
§ 71.122 NOTICE TO VILLAGE AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the Mayor and the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 71.127)
§ 71.123 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.128) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.124 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.129) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.125 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle, except a police car
or other emergency vehicle, shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when those vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police or other authorized
village official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to
prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public
thoroughfare or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade.
Signs shall be posted to that effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person
to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall
be liable for parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs
have been posted in accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 71.130) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.126 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The village shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued
hereunder on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 71.131)
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   General parking regulations
   
72.02   Unattended motor vehicles
   
72.03   Storage and parking of vehicles and trailers
Restrictions on Stopping, Standing and Parking
   
72.15   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.16   Stopping, standing or parking outside business or residence district
   
72.17   Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for persons with
disabilities
   
72.18   Weight limit for parked vehicles
   
72.19   Parking of trucks in Tremont Park
Snow Emergencies
   
72.30   Snow emergency
   
72.31   Termination of emergency
   
72.32   Signage
Violations
   
72.45   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   
72.46   Duty of lessor of vehicle on notice of violation of this chapter
 
   
72.99   Penalty
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close as
practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder. Every vehicle stopped
or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel to the
curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic movement,
with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close
as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder, or with its left-
hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand curb or as close as practicable
to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   (B)   No angle parking shall be permitted, except as set forth by ordinance.
   (C)   No person shall park in violation of signs placed by and under the
jurisdiction of the state’s Department of Transportation which prohibit, limit
or restrict the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1304) (Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Except for a law enforcement officer or an operator of an authorized
emergency vehicle performing his or her official duties, no person driving or
in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without
stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition,
effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any perceptible
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway. An
unattended motor vehicle shall not include an unattended locked motor vehicle
with the engine running after being started by a remote starter system.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1401) (Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 STORAGE AND PARKING OF VEHICLES AND TRAILERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTOMOBILE. A road vehicle, typically with four wheels, powered by an
internal combustion engine or electric motor and able to carry a small number
of people.
      BOAT. Includes every description of watercraft, including a seaplane on
the water and not in flight, used or capable of being used as a means of
transportation on the water, but does not include boathouses, floating homes,
air mattresses, beach and water toys or single inner tubes.
      BOAT TRAILER. A vehicle designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle for the
purpose of transporting a boat, ship or other watercraft.
      CAMPER. A portable dwelling (such as a equipped trailer or automotive
vehicle) for use during casual travel and camping.
      CAMPING TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, constructed with
partial side walls which fold for towing and unfold to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational camping or travel use and of a size or weight not
requiring an over-dimension permit when towed on a highway.
      MOTOR HOME. A self-propelled vehicle designed to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use that complies with all
applicable federal vehicle regulations.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Also known as MOTORIZED VEHICLE or AUTOMOTIVE VEHICLE; a
self-propelled vehicle, commonly wheeled, that does not operate on rails and is
used for transportation of people or cargo.
      PERSONAL WATERCRAFT. A small vessel which uses an outboard motor
propeller-driven motor, or an inboard motor powering a waterjet pump, as its
primary source of motive power and which is designed to be operated by a person
sitting, standing, or kneeling on or being towed behind a vessel.
      PERSONAL WATERCRAFT TRAILER. A trailer that is designed to haul one or
more personal watercrafts.
      SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain, steered by skies or runners, and supported in part by skies,
belts or cleats.
      RECREATION VEHICLE. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes and not used commercially, nor owned by a commercial business.
      SNOWMOBILE TRAILER. A trailer that is designed to haul one or more
snowmobiles.
      TENT TRAILER. A type of towed vehicle that can be collapsed for easy
storage and transport. When set up, this type of trailer provides a large
amount of interior space when compared to its size when collapsed.
      TRAILER. A non-automotive vehicle designed to be hauled by road, such as
a vehicle for transporting something or a vehicle designed to serve wherever
parked as a temporary dwelling or place of business.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle without motive power used, manufactured or
constructed to permit its use a conveyance upon the public streets and highways
and designed to permit its use as a place of human habitation by one or more
persons.
      TRUCK. A large, heavy motor vehicle used for transporting goods,
materials or troops. An automotive vehicle with a short chassis with a swivel
for attaching a trailer and used for the highway hauling of freight.
   (B)   Regulations inside the residential district. The following provisions
shall govern the off-street parking of all vehicles in all residential
districts.
      (1)   VEHICLES are defined as all motor vehicles and trailers, including,
but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, travel trailers, campers, motor homes,
tent trailers, boats, boat trailers, personal watercraft, personal watercraft
trailers, snowmobiles, snowmobile trailers and camping trailers.
      (2)   Parking a vehicle in any front yard in all residential districts is
prohibited other than in the driveway, not extending onto the sidewalk or at
least eight feet back from the edge of the street.
      (3)   Vehicles may be parked in the side yards, providing the side yard
setback is maintained. The distance from the side lot line to the closest edge
of the vehicle may not be less than the required setback.
      (4)   No more than two trailers are allowed on a property at one time.
      (5)   No vehicle shall have its wheels removed or be affixed to the
ground so as to prevent its ready removal.
      (6)   No vehicle shall be parked or stored so as to create a dangerous or
unsafe condition. The ground under or surrounding the location wherein a
vehicle is stored shall be free of weeds, debris and combustible material.
      (7)   No vehicle shall be parked where it would impede traffic safety by
blocking the view of oncoming vehicles and/or traffic signs.
      (8)   No vehicle shall be parked in such a manner as to obstruct the view
of cars pulling out of any driveway onto the street, or, in the case of corner
lots, to obstruct the view of cars approaching an intersection.
      (9)   No vehicle used for the transportation of flammable liquids,
explosives or toxic or noxious materials shall be parked or stored in a
residential district in any capacity.
(Ord. 21-104, passed 2-1-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
RESTRICTIONS ON STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
§ 72.15 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or an official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing or
parking;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly sign-posted); or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing or
parking.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1303) (Prior Code, § 72.10) (Ord. 02-104, passed 9-3-2002)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park or so leave the vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view
of the stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon the highway.
   (B)   The village, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction or for
the maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any highway where
in its opinion stopping, standing or parking is dangerous to those using the
highway, or where stopping, standing or parking vehicles would unduly interfere
with the free movement of traffic thereon. Any regulations adopted by the
village regarding the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles upon any
specific street, streets or highways become effective at the time of the
erection of appropriate signs indicating the regulations.
   (C)   This section, and §
72.15 of this chapter and 625 ILCS 5/11-1304 shall not apply to the driver of
any vehicle which is disabled in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle in that
position.
   (D)   Any Second Division vehicle used exclusively for the collection of
garbage, refuse or recyclable material may stop or stand on the road in a
business, rural or residential district for the sole purpose of collecting
garbage, refuse or recyclable material. The vehicle, in addition to having its
hazard lights lighted at all time that it is engaged in stopping or standing,
shall also use its amber oscillating, rotating or flashing light or lights as
authorized under 625 ILCS 5/12-215(b)(12), if so equipped.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301) (Prior Code, § 72.11)
   (E)   No person shall park any motor vehicle on any village street, alley or
public way for a period of more than seven days at any one location. It shall
be unlawful for the operator of any such motor vehicle to remove such motor
vehicle from one location to another so as to evade the time limit provided in
this section.
(Ord. 21-123, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not properly
displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with disabilities,
as defined by §
70.01, pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616, 5/11-1301.1 or 5/11-1301.2, or to a
veteran with a disability pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-609, as evidence that the
vehicle is operated by or for a person with disabilities or a veteran with a
disability, in any parking place, including any private or public off-street
parking facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an official sign as
designated under 625 ILCS 5/11-301, for motor vehicles displaying such
registration plates. It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle in a
designated access aisle adjacent to any parking place specifically reserved for
persons with disabilities, by the posting of an official sign as designated
under 625 ILCS 5/11-301, for motor vehicles displaying such registration
plates. When using the parking privileges for persons with disabilities, the
parking decal or device must be displayed properly in the vehicle where it is
clearly visible to law enforcement personnel, either hanging from the rearview
mirror or placed on the dashboard of the vehicle in clear view. Disability
license plates and parking decals and devices are not transferable from person
to person. Proper usage of the disability license plate or parking decal or
device requires the authorized holder to be present and enter or exit the
vehicle at the time the parking privileges are being used. It is a violation of
this section to park in a space reserved for a person with disabilities if the
authorized holder of the disability license plate or parking decal or device
does not enter or exit the vehicle at the time the parking privileges are being
used. Any motor vehicle properly displaying a disability license plate or a
parking decal or device containing the international symbol of access issued to
persons with disabilities by any local authority, state, district, territory or
foreign country shall be recognized by state and village authorities as a valid
license plate or device and receive the same parking privileges as residents of
the state.
      (1)   An individual with a vehicle displaying disability license plates
or a parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability
under 625 ILCS 5/3-616, 5/11-1301.1 or 5/11-1301.2 or to a veteran with a
disability under 625 ILCS 5/3-609 is in violation of this section if:
         (a)   The person using the disability license plate or parking decal
or device is not the authorized holder of the disability license plate or
parking decal or device or is not transporting the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device to or from the parking
location; and
         (b)   The person uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license plate
or parking decals or devices under this code.
      (2)   A driver of a vehicle displaying disability license plates or a
parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability under
625 ILCS 5/3-616, 5/11-1301.1 or 5/11-1301.2 or to a veteran with a disability
under 625 ILCS 5/3-609 is in violation of this section if:
         (a)   The person to whom the disability license plate or parking decal
or device was issued is deceased; and
         (b)   The driver uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license plate
or parking decal or device under this code.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(a) - (a-2))
   (B)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Police Department,
remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by a person with
disabilities which does not display person with disabilities registration
plates or a special decal or device as required under this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(b))
   (C)   The village shall impose fines as established in §
72.99 of this chapter for violations of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, AUTHORIZED HOLDER means an individual issued
a disability license plate under 625 ILCS 5/3-616, an individual issued a
parking decal or device under 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2 or an individual issued a
license plate for veterans with disabilities under 625 ILCS 5/11-609.
   (E)   Any police officer may seize the parking decal or device from any
person who commits a violation of this section. Any police officer may seize
the disability license plate upon authorization from the Secretary of State.
Any police officer may request that the Secretary of State revoke the parking
decal or device or the disability license plate of any person who commits a
violation of this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(d), (e), (g))
(Prior Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 WEIGHT LIMIT FOR PARKED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park on public property any motor
vehicle having a gross weight of 8,000 pounds or more for a period of more than
two continuous hours in any one location in any one day.
(Prior Code, § 72.13) (Ord. 502, passed 12-10-1973) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 PARKING OF TRUCKS IN TREMONT PARK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any semi-tractor, semi-
trailer or combination thereof, any dumptruck, tandem axle truck, straight axle
truck (excluding non-commercial pickup truck or van), any truck or van used for
commercial purposes, any motor home, camping trailer, boat trailer, pole
trailer, utility trailer or any other trailer in any parking lot of Tremont
Park between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday of
each week and between the hours of 10:00 p.m. on Friday and 7:00 a.m. on Monday
of each week.
   (B)   Any vehicle or trailer parked in violation of this section shall be
towed at the owner’s expense pursuant to the direction of any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 72.14) (Ord. 89-104, passed 7-17-1989) Penalty, see §
72.99
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 72.30 SNOW EMERGENCY.
Whenever the Village President shall find that a snowfall of two inches or more
has occurred, he or she is authorized to declare a snow emergency. Upon such
declaration, no vehicle shall be parked or remain parked on any streets within
the village, effective upon announcement. The emergency shall end when the
snowfall has stopped and streets have been cleared.
(Ord. 25-109, passed 3-17-2025)
§ 72.31 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
Whenever the Village President shall find that some or all of the conditions
which gave rise to the snow emergency no longer exist, he or she is authorized
to declare the termination of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective
immediately on announcement.
(Prior Code, § 72.26) (Ord. 25-109, passed 3-17-2025)
§ 72.32 SIGNAGE.
   Appropriate signage disclosing the snow emergency prohibition set forth in §
72.30 of the Village Code shall be placed on each street entering the village.
(Ord. 25-109, passed 3-17-2025)
VIOLATIONS
§ 72.45 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of §
72.16 of this chapter, the officer is authorized to move the vehicle, or
require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same,
to a position off the roadway.
   (B)   (1)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to a place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing
upon any highway, bridge, causeway or in a tunnel, or in a position or under
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
      (2)   Whenever the Department finds an abandoned or disabled vehicle
standing upon the paved or main-traveled part of a highway, which vehicle is or
may be expected to interrupt the free flow of traffic on the highway or
interfere with the maintenance of the highway, the Department is authorized to
move the vehicle to a position off the paved or improved or main-traveled part
of the highway.
   (C)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to
the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a highway
when:
      (1)   Report has been made that the vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner;
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of the vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal;
      (3)   The person driving or in control of the vehicle is arrested for an
alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the person
arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay; or
      (4)   The registration of the vehicle has been suspended, canceled or
revoked.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1302) (Prior Code, § 72.40)
§ 72.46 DUTY OF LESSOR OF VEHICLE ON NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases the vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this chapter involving the vehicle, shall upon request provide such police
officers as have authority of the offense, and the court having jurisdiction
thereof, with a written statement of the name and address of the lessee at the
time of the offense and the identifying number upon the registration plates and
registration sticker or stickers of the vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1305) (Prior Code, § 72.41)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 73: MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.02   Riding on bicycles
   
73.03   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.04   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.05   Carrying articles
   
73.06   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
Motorcycles and Mopeds
   
73.20   Riding on motorcycles
   
73.21   Special equipment for persons riding motorcycles
   
73.22   Required equipment on motorcycles
   
73.23   Operating motorcycle on one wheel
   
73.24   Lamps on mopeds
   
73.25   Riding on mopeds
Golf Carts and UTVs
   
73.40   Definitions
   
73.41   Limitation on operation
   
73.42   Required equipment
   
73.43   Applicable regulations
   
73.44   Permit required
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a highway shall be granted all of the
rights, and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this traffic
code, and except as to those provisions of this traffic code which, by their
nature, can have no application.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1502) (Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped; except that, an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his or her person in a back pack or sling.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1503) (Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1504) (Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a roadway
at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall ride as close as practicable and safe to the
right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except under the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle, motorized pedalcycle
or vehicle proceeding in the same direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway;
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, bicycles,
motorized pedalcycles, pedestrians, animals, surface hazards or substandard
width lanes that make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge.
For purposes of this division (A)(3), a SUBSTANDARD WIDTH LANE means a lane
that is too narrow for a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle and a vehicle to
travel safely side by side within the lane; or
      (4)   When approaching a place where a right turn is authorized.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a one-way
highway with two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand
curb or edge of the roadway as practicable.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1505)
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles or motorized pedalcycles upon a roadway shall
not ride more than two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for their exclusive use. Persons riding two abreast shall not impede the normal
and reasonable movement of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a
single lane subject to the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1505.1)
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the use of both hands in the control and operation of the
bicycle. A person operating a bicycle shall keep at least one hand on the
handlebars at all times.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1506) (Prior Code, § 73.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the state’s Department of Transportation which shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, except that a lamp emitting
a steady or flashing red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
may be used in addition to or instead of the red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle, any siren. This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle that is a
Police Department vehicle or Fire Department vehicle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold the bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector conforming to specifications prescribed
by the state’s Department of Transportation, on each pedal, visible from the
front and rear of the bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. The reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet, and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle. The requirements of this
division (E) may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least three-
sixteenths inch wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate as clearly as
possible the continuous circular shape and size of the tires or rims of the
bicycle, and which reflective materials may be of the same color on both the
front and rear tire or rim. The reflectors shall conform to specifications
prescribed by the state’s Department of Transportation.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1507) (Prior Code, § 73.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
MOTORCYCLES AND MOPEDS
§ 73.20 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and the operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless the motorcycle is
designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the
operator.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.
   (C)   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebar grips higher
than the height of the head of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator.
   (D)   The operator of any motorcycle shall keep at least one had on a
handlebar grip at all times the motorcycle is in motion.
   (E)   The operator of a motorcycle may not transport a passenger unless the
passenger is capable of resting a foot on the footrest while the motorcycle is
in motion.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1403) (Prior Code, § 73.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.21 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR PERSONS RIDING MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   The operator and every passenger of a motorcycle shall be protected by
glasses, goggles or a transparent shield.
   (B)   This equipment shall meet the requirements based upon those set forth
in Vehicle Equipment Safety Commission Regulation VESC-8, “Minimum Requirements
for Motorcyclists’ Eye Protection.”
(625 ILCS 5/11-1404) (Prior Code, § 73.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.22 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON MOTORCYCLES.
   Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or enclosed
cab, shall be equipped with footrests for the passenger.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1405) (Prior Code, § 73.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.23 OPERATING MOTORCYCLE ON ONE WHEEL.
   Any person who operates a motorcycle, motor driven cycle or moped on one
wheel is guilty of reckless driving, as defined in §
76.01 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 73.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating on one wheel prohibited, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1403.2
§ 73.24 LAMPS ON MOPEDS.
   (A)   Every moped, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the state’s Department of Transportation, which shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when in front of lawful, low-
powered beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
   (B)   A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1507.1) (Prior Code, § 73.24) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.25 RIDING ON MOPEDS.
   (A)   The operator of a moped shall ride only astride the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and shall not permit two persons to ride thereon
at the same time, unless the moped is designed to carry two persons. Any moped
designed for two persons must be equipped with a passenger seat and footrests
for use of a passenger.
   (B)   Neither the operator nor any passenger on a moped shall be required to
wear any special goggles, shield, helmet or glasses.
   (C)   The provisions of §§
73.01 through
73.06 of this chapter shall be applicable to the operation of mopeds, except
for those provisions which, by their nature, can have no application to moped.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1403.1) (Prior Code, § 73.25) Penalty, see §
70.99
GOLF CARTS AND UTVS
§ 73.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf or
maintaining the condition of the grounds of a public or private golf course.
   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE or UTV. Any manufactured off-road utility vehicle
designed to be operated off-road that has seats that are side by side, in a
non-straddle configuration, and is factory equipped with the safety equipment
required by §
73.42 of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-105, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 73.41 LIMITATION ON OPERATION.
    Subject to the limitations set forth in this chapter, any person with a
valid driver’s license may operate a golf cart or UTV on any street or highway
under the jurisdiction of the village. This section shall not be construed as
granting permission for any person operating a golf cart or UTV to drive upon
or cross any street or highway under the jurisdiction of Tremont Township, Elm
Grove Township or Tazewell County, or to drive upon or cross any street or
highway under the jurisdiction of the state’s Department of Transportation
including, without limitation, Illinois Route 9. Any crossing of Illinois Route
9 will be safely completed at Harris Street at Route 9 or at Locust Street at
Route 9 as allowed by the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 13-105, passed 7-1-2013; Ord. 24-107, passed 5-20-2024)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.42 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   No golf cart or UTV may be operated on a street or highway under the
jurisdiction of the village unless, at a minimum, it has the following safety
equipment:
   (A)   Brakes;
   (B)   Steering wheel apparatus;
   (C)   Tires;
   (D)   Rearview mirror;
   (E)   Red reflector warning devices on the front and rear;
   (F)   A slow moving emblem (as required of other vehicles at 625 ILCS 12-709
on the rear of the golf cart;
   (G)   A headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the front;
   (H)   A tail lamp that emits a red light visible from a distance of at least
100 feet from the rear;
   (I)   Brake lights on the rear of the vehicle; and
   (J)   Turn signals on the front and rear of the vehicle.
(Ord. 13-105, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.43 APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   When on a street or highway under the jurisdiction of the village, a golf
cart or UTV shall be operated in accordance with the following regulations.
   (A)   The golf cart or UTV shall have its headlights and taillamps lighted
at all times.
   (B)   Any person operating a golf cart as authorized in this chapter shall
travel on the street or highway in the same direction as traffic and as near to
the right side of the roadway as possible.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, any person operating
a golf cart or UTV on streets or highways under the jurisdiction of the village
shall obey any and all traffic regulations set forth either in this village
code or in the state’s Vehicle Code.
   (D)   Golf carts or UTVs may be operated only during daylight hours;
furthermore, they shall not be operated in inclement weather nor when
visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other conditions, or at any
time when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on
the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (E)    Any golf cart or UTV operated within the village must acquire and
display on the vehicle an inspection sticker from the village’s Police
Department along with an inspection/permit fee as set forth on the village’s
fee/permit schedule.
(Ord. 13-105, passed 7-1-2013; Ord. 24-107, passed 5-20-2024)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.44 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart within the village without first
obtaining a permit, or being listed as an additional operator under a permit,
as provided herein. Permits shall expire on April 30 of each year. Applications
for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the village, shall be executed
by the applicant and each additional operator and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of any additional operators;
      (3)   Name of liability insurance carrier and policy number;
      (4)   The serial number, make, model and description of golf cart or UTV;
      (5)   Waiver of liability; and
      (6)   Such other information as the village may require.
   (B)    No permit shall be granted unless the vehicle has been inspected and
approved by the village’s Police Department as follows:
      (1)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of the state’s statutes regarding minimum liability insurance
for passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of the state.
      (2)   The applicant must provide a copy of the driver’s license of the
applicant.
   (C)   Permits may be renewed upon demonstration of compliance with the
requirements for initial issuance of a permit and the payment of the permit
fee.
   (D)   Golf carts to be used in connection with the operation of the Tremont
Turkey Festival may be operated under a ten day permit. No fee shall be
required for ten day permits. Golf carts operated under ten day permits shall
comply with all provisions of this Chapter 73.
(Ord. 13-105, passed 7-1-2013; Ord. 24-107, passed 5-20-2024)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrian obedience to traffic-control devices and traffic regulations
   
74.02   Pedestrian right-of-way at crosswalks; school zones
   
74.03   Crossing at other than crosswalks
   
74.04   Drivers to avoid colliding with pedestrians
   
74.05   Blind, hearing impaired or physically disabled pedestrian right-of-way
   
74.06   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalks
   
74.07   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
74.08   Pedestrians walking on highways
   
74.09   Right-of-way on sidewalks
   
74.10   Pedestrians yield to authorized emergency vehicles
   
74.11   Pedestrians under influence of alcohol or drugs
   
74.12   Bridge and railroad signals
   
74.13   Motorized wheelchairs
   
74.14   Electric personal assistive mobility devices
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to him or her, unless otherwise directed
by a police officer.
   (B)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control signals
provided in §§
70.31 and
70.32 of this traffic code; but at all other places, pedestrians shall be
accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this
chapter.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1001) (Prior Code, § 74.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.02 PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS; SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, or not in
operation, the driver of a vehicle shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon
the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
      (2)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety,
and walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
      (3)   Division (A)(1) of this section shall not apply under the condition
stated in §
74.03(B) of this chapter.
      (4)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
      (5)   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield right-of-way to pedestrians as set forth in §
71.057 of this code of ordinances.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1002)
   (B)   For the purpose of this division (B), SCHOOL has the meaning ascribed
to that term in 625 ILCS 5/11-605.
      (1)   On a school day when school children are present and so close
thereto that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the
motorized traffic and when traffic-control signals are not in place or not in
operation, the driver of a vehicle shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon
the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (B), a school day shall begin at
7:00 a.m. and shall conclude at 4:00 p.m.
      (3)   This division (B) shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs
are posted in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/11-605.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1002.5)
(Prior Code, § 74.02) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk, or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place, except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic- control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to the crossing movements.
   (E)   Pedestrians with disabilities may cross a roadway at any point other
than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk where the
intersection is physically inaccessible to them, but they shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1003) (Prior Code, § 74.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 DRIVERS TO AVOID COLLIDING WITH PEDESTRIANS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian, or any person
operating a bicycle or other device propelled by human power and shall give
warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall exercise proper
precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated or
intoxicated person.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1003.1) (Prior Code, § 74.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 BLIND, HEARING-IMPAIRED OR PHYSICALLY DISABLED PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any blind, hearing-
impaired or physically disabled pedestrian carrying a clearly visible white
cane or accompanied by a support or guide dog.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1004) (Prior Code, § 74.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1005) (Prior Code, § 74.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.07 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle, unless expressly permitted by
this code. Solicitation on highways within the village shall be allowed only at
intersections where all traffic is required to come to a full stop. Any person
engaged in the act of solicitation shall be 16 years of age or more and shall
be wearing a high-visibility vest. The soliciting agency shall be:
      (1)   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization
as provided by the Solicitation for Charity Act;
      (2)   Engaged in a statewide fund raising activity; and
      (3)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
   (D)   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1006) (Prior Code, § 74.07) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.08 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (E) below, where a sidewalk is provided
and its use is practicable, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to walk
along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (E) below, where a sidewalk is not
available, any pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall walk only on a
shoulder, as far as practicable from the edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E) below, where neither a sidewalk nor
a shoulder is available, any pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall
walk as near as practicable to an outside edge of a roadway and, if on a two-
way roadway, shall walk only on the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Upon highways where the maximum posted speed limit is 45 mph or less,
and during the period from sunrise to sunset, a pedestrian who is 18 years of
age or older and wearing in-line speed skates may travel upon the roadway as
near as practicable to an outside edge of the roadway. Pedestrians wearing in-
line speed skates upon a roadway may not impede or obstruct other vehicular
traffic. Pedestrians wearing in-line speed skates shall be subject to all other
rights and duties under 625 ILCS 5/11-1001 et seq. Nothing in this title shall
be construed to prevent a pedestrian wearing in-line speed skates from using a
lane designated for bicycles.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1007) (Prior Code, § 74.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.09 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrians on a
sidewalk.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1008) (Prior Code, § 74.09) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.10 PEDESTRIANS YIELD TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
an audible signal and visual signals meeting the requirements of 625 ILCS 5/12-
601, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the authorized
emergency vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1009) (Prior Code, § 74.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.11 PEDESTRIANS UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree
which renders himself or herself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway,
except on a sidewalk.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1010) (Prior Code, § 74.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.12 BRIDGE AND RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   No pedestrian shall enter, remain upon or traverse over a railroad
grade crossing or pedestrian walkway crossing a railroad track when an audible
bell or clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device is operational
giving warning of the presence, approach, passage or departure of a railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   (D)   The village shall impose fines as established in §
74.99 of this chapter for pedestrians who fail to obey signals indicating the
presence, approach, passage or departure of a train of railroad track
equipment.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1011) (Prior Code, § 74.12) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.13 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair upon a sidewalk or roadway
shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1004.1) (Prior Code, § 74.13)
§ 74.14 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   Every person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device upon a
sidewalk or roadway has all the rights and is subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to limit or
preempt the authority of any home rule or non-home rule unit of local
government from regulating or prohibiting the use of electric personal
assistive mobility devices.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1005.1) (Prior Code, § 74.14)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 75: EQUIPMENT; LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
75.01   Scope and effect of equipment requirements
Loads
   
75.15   Scope and effect of size, weight and load regulations
   
75.16   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
75.17   Protruding members of vehicles
   
75.18   Spilling loads prohibited
   
75.19   Pushing of disabled vehicles
   
75.20   Weight limit of vehicles on certain streets
EQUIPMENT
§ 75.01 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in an unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with the lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in 625 ILCS 5/12, or which is equipped in any manner in
violation of 625 ILCS 5/12, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail
to perform any act required under 625 ILCS 5/12.
   (B)   The provisions of 625 ILCS 5/12, with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers or
farm tractors, or to farm-wagon type trailers having a fertilizer spreader
attachment permanently mounted thereon, having a gross weight of not to exceed
36,000 pounds and used only for the transportation of bulk fertilizer, or to
farm-wagon type tank trailers of not to exceed 2,000 gallons capacity, used
during the liquid fertilizer season as field-storage “nurse tanks,” supplying
the fertilizer to a field applicator and highways only for bringing the
fertilizer to a field applicator from a local source of supply to the farm or
field or from one farm or field to another.
(625 ILCS 5/12-101) (Prior Code, § 75.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
LOADS
§ 75.15 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move on, upon or across, or
for the owner to cause to knowingly permit to be driven or moved on, upon or
across any highway any vehicle or vehicles of a size and weight exceeding the
limitations stated in 625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq., or otherwise in violation of
625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq.
   (B)   The provisions of 625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq. governing size, weight and
load do not apply to fire apparatus or equipment for snow and ice removal
operations owned or operated by the village, or to implements of husbandry, as
defined in §
70.01 of this chapter, temporarily operated or towed in a combination upon a
highway provided such combination does not consist of more than three vehicles
or, in the case of hauling fresh, perishable fruits or vegetables from farm to
the point of first processing, not more than three wagons being towed by an
implement of husbandry, or to a vehicle operated under the terms of a special
permit.
    (C)   The provisions of 625 ILCS 5/15-101 governing size, weight and load
do not apply to any snow and ice removal equipment that is no more than 12 feet
in width, if the equipment displays flags at least 18 inches square mounted on
the driver’s side of the snow plow. These vehicles must be equipped with an
illuminated rotating, oscillating or flashing amber light or lights, or a
flashing amber strobe light or lights, mounted on the top of the cab and of
sufficient intensity to be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. If the load
on the transport vehicle blocks the visibility of the amber lighting from the
rear of the vehicle, the vehicle must also be equipped with an illuminated
rotating, oscillating or flashing amber light or lights, or a flashing amber
strobe light or lights, mounted on the rear of the load and of sufficient
intensity to be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight.
(625 ILCS 5/15-101)
   (D)   No person shall use the highways under the jurisdiction of the village
in violation of weight and location restrictions and commercial vehicle
restrictions set forth in any applicable ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 75.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of village to regulate loads, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-1
§ 75.16 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street with any load
carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of
the vehicle, nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders
on the right side thereof.
(625 ILCS 5/15-105) (Prior Code, § 75.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.17 PROTRUDING MEMBERS OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle with boom, arm, drill rig or other protruding component shall be
operated upon any highway in the village unless the protruding component is
fastened so as to prevent shifting, bouncing or moving in any manner.
(625 ILCS 5/15-106) (Prior Code, § 75.12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.18 SPILLING LOADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway.
   (C)   The state’s Department of Transportation shall adopt those rules and
regulations it deems appropriate which require the securing of steel rolls and
other objects on flatbed trucks so as to prevent injury to users of highways
and damage to property. Any person who operates a flatbed truck on any highway
in violation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the state’s Department
of Transportation under this division (C) shall be punished as provided in §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
(625 ILCS 5/15-109) (Prior Code, § 75.13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.19 PUSHING OF DISABLED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful under any circumstances for any vehicle to push any other
vehicle on or along any highway outside an urban area in the village, except in
an extreme emergency, and then the vehicle shall not be pushed farther than is
reasonably necessary to remove it from the roadway or from the immediate hazard
that exists.
(625 ILCS 5/15-114) (Prior Code, § 75.14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.20 WEIGHT LIMIT OF VEHICLES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   Vehicles of the weight of 8,000 pounds or more are prohibited from driving,
traveling upon or using, at any time, Franklin Street from Sampson Street to
Chestnut Street and East South Street from Chestnut Street to the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 75.15) (Ord. 509, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
Section
   
76.01   Reckless driving
   
76.02   Street racing
   
76.03   Accidents involving death or personal injuries
   
76.04   Duty to give information and render aid
   
76.05   Accident involving damage to vehicle
   
76.06   Duty upon damaging unattended vehicle or other property
   
76.07   Duty to report accident
   
76.08   False reports
   
76.09   When driver fails to report
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   A person commits reckless driving if he or she:
   (A)   Drives any vehicle with a willful or wanton disregard for the safety
of persons or property; or
   (B)   Knowingly drives a vehicle and uses an incline in a roadway, such as a
railroad crossing, bridge approach or hill, to cause the vehicle to become
airborne.
(625 ILCS 5/11-503(a)) (Prior Code, § 76.01) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.02 STREET RACING.
   (A)   No person shall engage in street racing on any street or highway of
the state.
   (B)   No owner of any vehicle shall acquiesce in or permit his or her
vehicle to be used by another for the purpose of street racing.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, the following words shall have the
meanings ascribed to them.
      ACQUIESCE or PERMIT. Actual knowledge that the motor vehicle was to be
used for the purpose of street racing or a street sideshow.
      STREET RACING.
         (a)   The operation of two or more vehicles from a point side by side
at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to outdistance each other;
         (b)   The operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected
course, each starting at the same point, for the purpose of comparing the
relative speeds or power of acceleration of such vehicle or vehicles within a
certain distance or time limit;
         (c)   The use of one or more vehicles in an attempt to outgain or
outdistance another vehicle;
         (d)   The use of one or more vehicles to prevent another vehicle from
passing;
         (e)   The use of one or more vehicles to arrive at a given destination
ahead of another vehicle or vehicles; or
         (f)   The use of one or more vehicles to test the physical stamina or
endurance of drivers over long-distance driving routes.
   (D)   Every person convicted of committing a violation of division (A) above
shall be guilty of aggravated street racing if the person, in committing a
violation of division (A) above was involved in a motor vehicle crash that
resulted in great bodily harm or permanent disability or disfigurement to
another, where the violation was a proximate cause of the injury.
(625 ILCS 5/11-506) (Prior Code, § 76.02) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.03 ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
in personal injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop the vehicle
at the scene of the crash, or as close thereto as possible, and shall then
forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain at the scene of the crash
until the requirements of §
76.04 of this chapter have been fulfilled. Every such stop shall be made
without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   Any person who has failed to stop or to comply with the requirements
of division (A) above shall, as soon as possible but in no case later than one-
half hour after such motor vehicle crash or, if hospitalized and incapacitated
from reporting at any time during such period, as soon as possible, but in no
case later than one-half hour after being discharged from the hospital, report
the place of the crash, the date, the approximate time, the driver’s name and
address, the registration number of the vehicle driven and the names of all
other occupants of such vehicle, at a police station or sheriff’s office near
the place where such crash occurred. No report made as required under this
division (B) shall be used, directly or indirectly, as a basis for the
prosecution of any violation of division (A) above.
   (C)   Any person arrested for violating this section is subject to chemical
testing of his or her blood, breath or urine for the presence of alcohol, other
drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof,
as provided in 625 ILCS 5/11-501.1, if the testing occurs within 12 hours of
the time of the occurrence of the crash that led to his or her arrest. The
person’s driving privileges are subject to statutory summary suspension under
625 ILCS 5/11-501.1 if he or she fails testing or statutory summary revocation
under 625 ILCS 5/11-501.1 if he or she refuses to undergo the testing.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, PERSONAL INJURY shall mean any injury
requiring immediate professional treatment in a medical facility or doctor’s
office.
(625 ILCS 5/11-401(a) - (b-1))
   (E)   The Secretary of State shall revoke the driving privilege of any
person convicted of a violation of this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-401(e))
(Prior Code, § 76.03) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.04 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or
attended by any person shall give the driver’s name, address, registration
number and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating, and shall upon request
and, if available, exhibit the driver’s license to the person struck or the
driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with, and shall
render to any person injured in the crash reasonable assistance, including the
carrying or the making of arrangements for the carrying of the person to a
physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or surgical treatment, if it is
apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by
the injured person.
   (B)   If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this
section is in condition to receive and understand the information and no police
officer is present, the driver, after rendering reasonable assistance, shall
forthwith report the crash at the Police Department, disclosing the information
required by this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-403) (Prior Code, § 76.04) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.05 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash
resulting only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person
shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such motor vehicle crash or
as close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to and in every event
shall remain at the scene of such motor vehicle crash until the requirements of
§ 76.04 of this chapter have been fulfilled. A driver does not violate this
section if the driver moves the vehicle as soon as possible off the highway to
the nearest safe location on an exit ramp shoulder, a frontage road, the
nearest suitable cross street or other suitable location that does not obstruct
traffic and remains at that location until the driver has fulfilled the
requirements of §
76.04 of this chapter. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary. If a damaged vehicle is obstructing traffic
lanes, the driver of the vehicle must make every reasonable effort to move the
vehicle or have it moved so as not to block the traffic lanes.
      (2)   Any person failing to comply with this section shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a violation of this section, the court shall make a
finding as to whether the damage to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, and in
such case a statement of this finding shall be reported to the Secretary of
State with the report of conviction as required by 625 ILCS 5/6-204. Upon
receipt of such report of conviction and statement of finding that the damage
to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, the Secretary of State shall suspend the
driver’s license or any non-resident’s driving privilege.
   (C)   If any peace officer or highway authority official finds a vehicle
standing upon a highway or toll highway in violation of a prohibition,
limitation or restriction on stopping, standing or parking imposed under this
title or a disabled vehicle that obstructs the roadway of a highway or toll
highway, the peace officer or highway authority official is authorized to move
the vehicle or to require the operator of the vehicle to move the vehicle to
the shoulder of the road, to a position where parking is permitted, or to
public parking or storage premises. The removal may be performed by, or under
the direction of, the peace officer or highway authority official or may be
contracted for by local authorities. After the vehicle has been removed, the
peace officer or highway authority official shall follow appropriate
procedures, as provided in 625 ILCS 5/4-203.
   (D)   A towing service, its officers and its employees are not liable for
loss of or damages to any real or personal property that occurs as the result
of the removal or towing of any vehicle under division (C) above, as provided
in 625 ILCS 5/4-213(b).
(625 ILCS 5/11-402) (Prior Code, § 76.05) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.06 DUTY UPON DAMAGING UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR OTHER PROPERTY.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in a motor
vehicle crash with any vehicle which is unattended, or other property,
resulting in any damage to such other vehicle or property shall immediately
stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of
such vehicle or other property of the driver’s name, address, registration
number and owner of the vehicle the driver was operating or shall attach
securely in a conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other property struck a
written notice giving the driver’s name, address, registration number and owner
of the vehicle the driver was driving and shall without unnecessary delay
notify the Police Department and shall make a written report of such crash when
and as required in §
76.07 of this chapter. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary. If a damaged vehicle is obstructing traffic
lanes, the driver of the vehicle must make every reasonable effort to move the
vehicle or have it moved so as not to block the traffic lanes.
(625 ILCS 5/11-404) (Prior Code, § 76.06) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.07 DUTY TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
within the village, resulting in injury to or death of any person or in which
damage to the property of any one person, including himself or herself, in
excess of $1,500 (or $500 if any of the vehicles involved in the accident is
subject to 625 ILCS 5/7-601, but is not covered by a liability insurance policy
in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/7-601) is sustained, shall, as soon as possible,
but not later than ten days after the accident, file with the Police Department
a copy of the written report required to be filed with the state under state
law.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a school bus is involved in an accident in the village,
caused by a collision, a sudden stop or otherwise, resulting in any property
damage, personal injury or death and, whenever an accident occurs within 50
feet of a school bus in the village resulting in personal injury to or the
death of any person while awaiting or preparing to board the bus or immediately
after exiting the bus, the driver shall as soon as possible, but not later than
ten days after the accident, file with the Police Department a copy of the
written report required to be filed with the state under state law.
      (2)   If a report is also required under division (A) above, that report
and the report required by this division (B) shall be submitted on a single
form.
   (C)   (1)   The Chief of Police may require any driver, occupant or owner of
a vehicle involved in an accident of which report must be made as provided in
this section or §
76.09 of this chapter to file supplemental reports whenever the original report
is insufficient in the opinion of the Chief of Police and may require witnesses
of the accident to submit written reports.
      (2)   The report may include photographs, charts, sketches and graphs.
   (D)   (1)   Should the Police Department learn through other reports of
accidents required by law of the occurrence of an accident reportable under
this chapter and the driver, owner or witness has not reported as required
under divisions (A) through (C) above or §
76.09 of this chapter within the time specified, the person is not relieved of
the responsibility and the Police Department shall notify the person by first
class mail directed to his or her last known address of his or her legal
obligation.
      (2)   However, the notification is not a condition precedent to impose
the penalty for failure to report as provided in division (E) below.
   (E)   The Secretary of State shall suspend the driver’s license or any non-
resident’s driving privilege of any person who fails or neglects to make report
of a traffic accident as herein required or as required by any other law of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 76.07)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization for village to require accident reports, see 625 ILCS 5/11-415
§ 76.08 FALSE REPORTS.
   Any person who provides information in an oral or written report required by
this chapter with knowledge or reason to believe that the information is false
shall be fined as provided in §
76.99 of this chapter.
(625 ILCS 5/11-409) (Prior Code, § 76.08)
§ 76.09 WHEN DRIVER FAILS TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making a
required written accident report and, if there was another occupant in the
vehicle at the time of the motor vehicle accident capable of making a written
report, the occupant shall make or cause the written report to be made. If the
driver fails for any reason to make the report the owner of the vehicle
involved in the motor vehicle accident shall, as soon as practicable, make the
report to the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 76.09)
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop streets
      
III.   Stop and yield streets
      
IV.   Through streets
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds listed
below upon the following streets:
Street Description Speed Limit (mph)
Street          Description                                Speed Limit (mph)
Cullinan Street Between Sampson Street and Harris Street   20
Harris Street   Between South Street and Tazewell Street   20
James Street    Between Madison Street and Tazewell Street 20
Sampson Street  Between Madison and Tazewell Street        20
South Street    Between Sampson Street and Harris Street   20
Tazewell Street Between Sampson Street and Harris Street   20
Walnut Street   Between Locust Street and Harris Street    20
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 77, Schd. I)
SCHEDULE II. STOP STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets shall be designated as stop streets:
Stop Street Through Street Ord. No. Date Passed
Stop Street                       Through Street         Ord. No. Date Passed
Broadway Street                   Franklin Street        23-116   11-6-2023
East Franklin Street              South Chestnut Street  98-104   8-3-1998
East Jefferson Street             South Harris Street    13-109   10-7-2013
East Madison Street               South Chestnut Street  -        - -
East Madison Street               South James Street     83-101   2-7-1983
East Margarete Street             South Sampson Street   08-103   6-16-2008
East South Street                 South Chestnut Street  -        - -
East South Street                 East South Street      -        - -
East South Street (eastbound)     South James Street     -        - -
East State Street                 North Chestnut Street  90-104   11-17-1990
East Street                       North Harris Street    -        - -
East Tazewell Street              North Harris Street    -        - -
East Walnut Street (eastbound)    South James Street     -        - -
Elm Street                        Sampson Street         -        - -
Franklin Street                   Sampson Street         -        - -
Hancock Street                    West Franklin Street   501      - -
Harris Street                     Franklin Street        23-116   11-6-2023
Horton Court                      South Chestnut Street  -        - -
Ivy Lane                          West Franklin Street   507      12-2-1974
James Street                      Franklin Street        23-116   11-6-2023
Jefferson Street                  Sampson Street         -        - -
Lake Street                       South Baer Road        13-108   9-3-2013
Lee Court                         South Sampson Street
Lee Street                        South Sampson Street   08-103   6-16-2008
Lincoln Street                    East Franklin Street   98-104   8-3-1998
Locust Street                     North Street           95-105   12-4-1995
Madison Street                    Sampson Street         -        - -
Margarete Street                  Chestnut Street        23-114   9-18-2023
Myrtle Street                     North West Street      -        - -
North Chestnut Street             Cullinan Street        21-131   - -2021
North James Street                East Tazewell Street   -        - -
North Street                      James Street           -        - -
North Street                      North Greenfield       94-106   11-7-1994
North Street                      Sampson Street         -        - -
North Street                      Toepfer Street         01-104   9-4-2001
North Street                      West Street            95-105   12-4-1995
North Toepfer Street              West Tazewell Street   540      11-4-1979
North West Street                 West Tazewell Street   -        - -
Oak Street                        West Tazewell Street   88-102   2-15-1988
Park Street                       Sampson Street         -        - -
Pine Street                       East South             -        - -
Prairie Lane                      West Franklin Street   -        - -
Ripley Street                     South Locust Street    -        - -
Ripley Street                     Sampson Street         -        - -
South Harris Street               East Madison Street    13-109   10-7-2013
South Harris Street               East Walnut Street     -        - -
South Harris Street               Washington Street      540      11-4-1979
South James Street                East Jefferson Street  13-109   10-7-2013
South James Street (southbound)   East Walnut Street     501      - -
South James Street (northbound)   East South Street      501      - -
South Locust Street               West Franklin Street   -        - -
South Locust Street               West Walnut Street     540      11-4-1979
South Locust Street               West South Street      -        - -
South Street                      Sampson Street         -        - -
South Sampson Street              Lee Street             13-109   10-7-2013
South Warren Street               West Washington Street 13-109   10-7-2013
South Warren Street               West Franklin          -        - -
South Warren Street               South Street           -        - -
South West Street                 West Franklin Street   -        - -
State Route 9                     South James Street     -        - -
Stuber Court                      West Street            -        - -
Tazewell Street                   Sampson Street         -        - -
Unnamed street (running east and
west between park and railroad    Sampson Street         -        - -
tracks)
Unnamed street between tracks and North Harris Street    -        - -
park
Walnut Street                     Sampson Street         -        - -
Washington Street                 Sampson Street         -        - -
West Elm Street                   North West Street      95-105   12-4-1995
West Jefferson Street             South West Street      -        - -
West Madison Street               South West Street      -        - -
West Margarete Street             South Locust Street    08-103   6-16-2008
West Margarete Street             South Sampson Street   08-103   6-16-2008
West South Street                 West Street            -        - -
West Walnut Street                South West Street      -        - -
West Washington Street            South West Street      -        - -
Wingate Drive (east and west)     South Sampson          98-104   8-3-1998
 
   (B)   The following intersections shall be designated as a four-way stop
intersection:
 
Intersection                                Ord. No. Date Passed
East South Street and South Harris Street   -        - -
James and Elm Streets                       506      11-4-1974
North Locust Street and South Harris Street 18-103   1-15-2018
Sampson Street and South Street             21-129   - -2021
South Sampson Street and Franklin Street    08-101   2-18-2008
South Sampson Street and Walnut Street      08-101   2-18-2008
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 77, Schd. II)
SCHEDULE III. STOP AND YIELD STREETS.
   The following streets are designated yield streets:
Yield Street Right-of-Way Street Ord. No. Date Passed
Yield Street               Right-of-Way Street             Ord. No. Date Passed
East Elm Street (west side North Harris                    -        - -
only)
East Jefferson Street      South Chestnut Street           -        - -
East Walnut Street         South Chestnut Street           -        - -
East Washington Street     South Chestnut Street           -        - -
Koch Street                West Jefferson Street           91-102   9-19-1991
North Chestnut Street      East Tazewell Street            -        - -
North Greenfield           West Elm Street                 -        - -
North James Street         Unnamed street along the tracks -        - -
North Locust Street        West Elm Street                 -        - -
North Locust Street        West Tazewell Street            -        - -
North Locust Street        West Park Street                89-106   9-5-1989
West Madison Street        South Locust Street             -        - -
West Park Street           North West Street               -        - -
Wingate Drive (northbound) Wingate Drive (east and west)   98-104   8-3-1998
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 77, Schd. III) (Ord. 10-105, passed 6-7-2010)
SCHEDULE IV. THROUGH STREETS.
   The following streets are designated through streets:
Street Direction Description
Street               Direction Description
North Harris Street  North     State Route 9 to end of North Harris
North James Street   South     From city limits to East Tazewell
North Sampson Street North     From State Route 9 to end of North Sampson
South Sampson Street South     From State Route 9 of south end of Chestnut
                               Street
South West Street    South     From State Route 9 to West Franklin Street
West Elm Street      West      From North West Street to North Sampson Street
West Franklin Street West      From South Sampson Street to west city limits
West South Street              From South Sampson Street to South West Street
West Tazewell Street West      From Toepfer Street to North Sampson Street
West Walnut Street   West      From South Sampson Street to South West Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 77, Schd. IV)
CHAPTER 78: PARKING SCHEDULES
   Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited
      
II.   Parking limited
      
III.   Limited loading zone
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking shall be prohibited on the following streets:
Street Side Description Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                Side          Description            Ord. No. Date Passed
                                    89 feet, 6 inches east
East South Street     South         of the east curb line  540      11-4-1979
                                    of South Sampson
                                    Street
                                    From North Harris
East Tazewell Street  North         Street to North        516      7-14-1975
                                    Sampson Street
North Sampson Street  West          From Park Street to    516      7-14-1975
                                    West Tazewell Street
Pearl Street                        Within the corporate
(Illinois State Route               limits of the village  88-110   12-5-1988
9)
                                    Beginning at a point
                                    on the south curb line
                                    of Pearl Street
                                    (Illinois State Route
South Chestnut Street West          9) and continuing      07-101   1-15-2007
                                    south along the west
                                    curb line of South
                                    Chestnut Street a
                                    distance of 158 feet
                                    Beginning at a point
                                    107 feet south of the
                                    south curb line of
                                    East South Street and
South James Street    East          continuing an          88-107   11-19-1988
                                    additional 73 feet to
                                    a point that is 180
                                    feet south of the
                                    south curbline of East
                                    South Street
                                    Beginning at a point
                                    119 south of the south
                                    curbline of East South
                                    Street and continuing
South James Street    West          an additional 79 feet  88-107   11-18-1988
                                    to a point that is 198
                                    south of the south
                                    curbline of East South
                                    Street
                                    68 feet, 7 inches
South Sampson Street  East          south of the south     88-101   2-1-1988
                                    curb line of East
                                    Walnut Street
                                    38 feet south of the
South Sampson Street  West          south curb line of     540      11-4-1979
                                    West South Street
                                    From the east right-
South Street          South         of-way line of East    498      7-9-1973
                                    Street to the east
                                    limits of the village
                                    On the east and west
                                    sides between the
South West Street     East and west north curb line of     19-106   5-6-2019
                                    West Walnut Street and
                                    the south curb line of
                                    West Pearl Street
                                    For a distance of 300
                                    feet south of the
                                    south curb line of
                                    Illinois State Route 9
West Street           West          between the hours of   86-101   2-3-1986
                                    2:30 p.m. and 3:30
                                    p.m. on days when
                                    Tremont High School
                                    District 702 is in
                                    session.
                                    For a distance of 50
West Street           East          feet south of the      86-101   2-3-1986
                                    south curbline of
                                    Illinois State Route 9
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 78, Schd. I)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING LIMITED.
   (A)   Parking in the following locations shall be limited to the specified
amount of time:
 
Location                                Time Limit
From 117 South Sampson Street south to  A maximum period of 30 minutes duration
East Walnut Street a distance of 280    between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 6:00
feet on the west side of the street     p.m.
only
From South Sampson Street on the north  A maximum period of 30 minutes duration
side of West Walnut Street to the alley between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 6:00
a distance of 200 feet                  p.m.
 
   (B)   The penalty for violation of this schedule shall be a fine of $1 is
paid within 24 hours of the violation and $10 is paid after 24 hours.
(Prior Code, Ch. 78, Schd. II) (Ord. 519, passed 1-12-1976)
SCHEDULE III. LIMITED LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   The creation of a loading zone of 30 lineal feet on the west side of
South Sampson Street south of its intersection with West South Street,
beginning at a point 50 feet from the south curb line of West South Street and
continuing south along the west curb line of South Sampson Street a distance of
80 feet, each day from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., with a time limit imposed of 15
minutes. All emergency responder vehicles shall be exempt from the enforcement
of this schedule.
   (B)   The creation of a loading zone of 70 lineal feet on the south side of
Walnut Street, beginning at the intersection of the south right-of-way line of
Walnut Street and the east right-of-way line of the north-south alley between
Sampson Street and Locust Street and continuing east along the south curb line
of Walnut Street a distance of 70 feet, each day from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.,
Monday through Friday, with a time limit imposed of 30 minutes. All emergency
responder vehicles shall be exempt from the enforcement of this schedule.
(Ord. 10-103, passed 3-1-2010; Ord. 22-114, passed 9-9-2022)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEMS
      
92.   CIVIL EMERGENCY
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION
      
95.   JUNKED AND ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
96.   NOISE
      
97.   NUISANCES
      
98.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
99.   TREES AND SHRUBBERY; WEEDS
      
100.   GARBAGE COLLECTION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Liability of owner or keeper
Rabies Control
   
90.015   Vaccination required
   
90.016   Certificate of vaccination
   
90.017   Duties of owner
   
90.018   Duties of persons suspecting any dog or cat to be suffering from
rabies
   
90.019   Duties of Police Department
   
90.020   Confinement for observation
   
90.021   Duties of owner upon reclaiming dog or cat
   
90.022   Rabies epidemic; power of President
   
90.023   Duties of owners upon proclamation of rabies epidemic
   
90.024   Police authorized to kill certain dogs or cats running at large
   
90.025   False reports prohibited
Offenses Involving Animals
   
90.040   Noises
   
90.041   Running at large
   
90.042   Dogs on private property; defecation by
   
90.043   Destruction of private property by dog or cat
   
90.044   Restriction of animals from public places
   
90.045   Threatening or annoying dogs or cats
   
90.046   Dogs chasing vehicles or bicycles
   
90.047   Dangerous dogs
   
90.048   Cruelty to animals
   
90.049   Intentional injuring of animals
   
90.050   Duty upon striking animal with motor vehicle
   
90.051   Procurement of animal without knowledge of owner
   
90.052   Abandoning animals within village
   
90.053   Keeping animals in sanitary condition
   
90.054   Offensive odors
   
90.055   Female dogs in heat
   
90.056   Use of animals for indecent purposes
   
90.057   Certain animals prohibited in village
   
90.058   Diseased or dying animals; running at large
   
90.059   Dead or dying animals
Impoundment Procedure
   
90.070   Village animal shelter
   
90.071   Animal Welfare Officer
   
90.072   Interference with Animal Welfare Officer
   
90.073   Minimum period before disposal
   
90.074   Redemption of impounded animals
   
90.075   Unclaimed animals
   
90.076   Ex-officio Animal Welfare Officer
   
90.077   Temporary animal shelter
Pet Shops
   
90.090   Definition
   
90.091   State license required
   
90.092   Duties of pet shop operator
   
90.093   Right of inspection
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any and all types of animals, both domesticated and wild, male and
female, singular and plural.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the immediate control
of either the owner or a person the owner has designated to be in control.
However, if an animal under the control of a village official or veterinarian
escapes and runs loose, it shall not be considered AT LARGE.
   BITING. The infliction of a break in the skin or a wound by the teeth of an
animal.
   CAT. Any and all animals of the feline species.
   CRUELTY TO ANIMALS. Includes, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Overloading, overdriving, over-working, beating, torturing,
abusing, tormenting, knowingly poisoning, knowingly attempting to poison,
mutilating or killing any animal, or causing or knowingly permitting the same
to be done;
      (2)   Working any old, lame, infirm, sick or disabled animal, or causing
or knowingly permitting the same to be done;
      (3)   Unnecessarily failing to provide an animal in one’s charge or
custody as owner or other- wise with proper food, drink and proper sanitary
shelter; and/or
      (4)   Abandoning any old, lame, infirm, sick or disabled animal by
leaving such animal on any highway or public way or in any other place where it
may suffer injury, hunger, exposure or become a public charge.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog which has bitten any person or which causes
reasonable fear of bodily injury to any person by attacking or threatening to
attack such person.
   DOG. Any and all animals of the canine species.
   OWNER. Any person owning, harboring or keeping an animal within the village.
For purposes of the village, the person last issued a dog license shall be
presumed to be the OWNER of such dog. A person harboring or keeping an
unlicensed animal in the village for a period of five days shall be presumed to
be the OWNER of such animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.001) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980)
§ 90.002 LIABILITY OF OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   Damage to animals.
      (1)   The owner or keeper of any animal shall be liable for all damages
that may accrue to any other person by reason of any such animal pursuing,
chasing, wounding or killing any animal belonging to such other person.
      (2)   However, no owner or keeper of any animal shall be liable for any
damage caused by such animal having rabies or other similar disease unknown to
such owner or keeper.
   (B)   Injury to persons. If an animal, without provocation, attacks or
injures any person who is peaceably conducting himself or herself in any place
where he or she may lawfully be, the owner or keeper of such animal shall be
liable in damages to the person so attacked or injured to the full amount of
the injury sustained.
   (C)   Damage to property. The owner or keeper of any animal which damages or
destroys any public or private property shall be held liable for the value of
the property damaged or destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 90.002)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.015 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   The owner of a dog or cat four months or more of age, located within the
village, shall cause such dog or cat to be inoculated by the state’s Rabies
Inspector, or by his or her deputy or by any licensed veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 90.030) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.016 CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION.
   Every licensed veterinarian who vaccinates a dog or cat shall issue a
certificate of vaccination to the owner of such dog or cat stating the name and
address of the owner, a brief description of the dog or cat and the date of
such vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 90.031) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980)
§ 90.017 DUTIES OF OWNER.
   (A)   Any owner receiving notice or having knowledge that his or her dog or
cat has been bitten by any animal suffering or suspected to be suffering from
rabies, or that his or her dog or cat has bitten any person, shall immediately
notify or deliver his or her dog or cat to any police officer who shall place
the dog or cat in a licensed veterinary hospital for observation, or such owner
shall, himself or herself, immediately notify the Village Clerk of the name and
location of such hospital.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a dog or cat, upon receiving
notice or having knowledge that such dog or cat has bitten any person or that
such dog or cat has been bitten by any animal suffering or suspected to be
suffering from rabies, to sell or give away such dog or cat or permit such dog
or cat to run at large, or to be taken beyond the village, except to a
veterinary hospital within the county; and, it shall also be unlawful for such
owner to refuse to deliver the dog or cat for observation, as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 90.032) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.018 DUTIES OF PERSONS SUSPECTING ANY DOG OR CAT TO BE SUFFERING FROM
RABIES.
   (A)   Every veterinarian or other person discovering or suspecting any dog
or cat to be suffering from rabies shall immediately report this matter to the
Police Department of the village, giving the name and address of the owner of
such dog or cat, if known, the place where the dog or cat can be found and the
license tag number of such dog, if known.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section only, any dog or cat which has bitten
any person shall be presumed to be suffering from rabies.
(Prior Code, § 90.033) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980)
§ 90.019 DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   Upon being notified that a dog or cat has bitten any person or is suspected
of suffering from rabies, the Police Department shall:
   (A)   When the owner of the dog or cat is known, notify such owner and
direct such owner to deliver up the dog or cat to a licensed veterinary
hospital for observation;
   (B)   When the owner of the dog or cat is unknown, immediately take up the
dog or cat and confine the dog or cat to a licensed veterinary hospital for
observation; or
   (C)   When the dog or cat is taken up under the provisions of division (B)
above, notify the owner, if known, of the confinement of such dog or cat within
seven days after the confinement begins or the identity of the owner is
discovered.
(Prior Code, § 90.034) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980)
§ 90.020 CONFINEMENT FOR OBSERVATION.
   (A)   Confinement of a dog or cat for observation under this subchapter
shall be for a period of ten days. The dog or cat shall be examined immediately
after confinement and again before the ten-day period has expired.
   (B)   The veterinarian shall submit to the Village Clerk a certificate
following each examination, stating whether or not the dog or cat shows
symptoms of rabies.
   (C)   If the dog or cat is found rabid, the dog or cat shall be destroyed in
a humane manner. If the dog or cat is destroyed or if it shall die within the
ten-day observation period, its head shall be sent by the veterinarian to the
laboratory of the state’s Department of Public Health.
   (D)   If the dog or cat is not found rabid by the end of the confinement
period, the owner shall be so notified and the dog or cat may be released to
its owner and the Village Clerk so advised.
(Prior Code, § 90.035) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980)
§ 90.021 DUTIES OF OWNER UPON RECLAIMING DOG OR CAT.
   (A)   An owner may reclaim any dog or cat impounded under the provisions of
this subchapter within seven days after the period for observing the dog or cat
has expired by paying the costs incurred during the observation period, and the
cost of a license if the dog was unlicensed, and the costs of a rabies
vaccination shot if the owner cannot prove the dog or cat has been properly
vaccinated as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   If the owner or keeper does not claim the dog or cat within this time,
then any person may redeem it by making like payments.
   (C)   If the dog or cat is not claimed as set forth herein, it shall be
destroyed in a humane manner, and any unpaid costs incurred by a licensed
veterinarian in compliance with this subchapter shall be paid to the
veterinarian in an amount not to exceed $8 upon receipt by the village of an
itemized bill setting forth the costs.
(Prior Code, § 90.036) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980)
§ 90.022 RABIES EPIDEMIC; POWER OF PRESIDENT.
   (A)   Whenever the President shall deem it necessary to prevent an epidemic
of rabies, he or she may issue a proclamation requiring the owners of all dogs
or cats to keep them securely confined or to keep them properly muzzled or
leashed, so they cannot bite, for such times as may be designated in the
proclamation or until otherwise notified.
   (B)   The President shall publish such proclamation in a paper of general
circulation within the village and post such proclamation in the village hall.
(Prior Code, § 90.037) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980)
§ 90.023 DUTIES OF OWNERS UPON PROCLAMATION OF RABIES EPIDEMIC.
   Following any proclamation as set forth in §
90.022 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any owner to permit his or her
dog or cat to run at large in violation of the provisions of such proclamation.
In addition to the penalties provided with respect to any such owner for
violating this section, a dog or cat running at large unmuzzled shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 90.038) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.024 POLICE AUTHORIZED TO KILL CERTAIN DOGS OR CATS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   Any police officer may kill a dog or cat running at large which is suspected
of suffering from rabies if the dog or cat, in the opinion of the police
officer, cannot be safely taken up and impounded, or if the police officer
deems such killing essential to the safety of any person.
(Prior Code, § 90.039) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980)
§ 90.025 FALSE REPORTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any report required by this
subchapter without having a reasonable belief in its truth and accuracy.
(Prior Code, § 90.040) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980) Penalty, see §
90.999
OFFENSES INVOLVING ANIMALS
§ 90.040 NOISES.
   (A)   Loud noises prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor any animal which disturbs the peace by loud noises at any time of day or
night, and it shall be unlawful for any such person to permit any animal to
make such noises.
   (B)   Causing animal to make annoying noises prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any person to treat any animal in any manner which causes such
animal to disturb the peace by loud noises at any time of day or night.
   (C)   Complaint of annoying noises. Any person residing in a neighborhood
whose quietness has been disturbed by any animal owned or possessed within the
neighborhood may make a sworn complaint before a village police officer or the
Village Clerk against the owner or possessor of the animal.
   (D)   Disturbance of peace declared a nuisance. Any animal which disturbs
the peace by loud noises at any time of day or night is hereby declared to be a
nuisance, and may be impounded by the village dog catcher or a village police
officer, and may be redeemed only by paying the appropriate fees as provided in
§
90.074 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.050) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owing or possessing any dog or cat
within the village to permit such dog or cat to run at large.
   (B)   Any dog or cat running at large is hereby declared to be a nuisance,
and may be taken up and impounded by the village animal control officer or any
village police officer, and may be redeemed only by paying the appropriate fees
as provided in §
90.074 of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person finding any dog or cat running at large upon his or her
property or upon any premises enumerated in §
90.044 of this chapter to his or her injury or annoyance may take up such dog
or cat and remove it or have it impounded.
(Prior Code, § 90.051) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980; Ord. 96-101, passed 5-6-
1996) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.042 DOGS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; DEFECATION BY.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor to permit a dog to walk or
defecate upon private property without the consent of the occupant thereof.
(Prior Code, § 90.052) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.043 DESTRUCTION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY BY DOG OR CAT.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any dog or cat to permit
such dog or cat to damage or destroy any personal property of another.
(Prior Code, § 90.053) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.044 RESTRICTION OF ANIMALS FROM PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any animal to
permit such animal to enter any religious premises, public hall, bank building,
automobile gasoline station, public garage or any place where food or beverage
is sold or served during such time as these establishments are open for use to
the public or persons entitled to use the same.
   (B)   However, the owner of any of the above establishments may permit a
watch dog to remain therein if such dog is held and restrained in such a way
that such dog cannot injure any patron or come in contact with any food.
(Prior Code, § 90.054) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.045 THREATENING OR ANNOYING DOGS OR CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any dog or cat to permit
such dog or cat to cause reasonable fear of bodily injury to any person by
attacking or threatening to attack such person, or to permit such dog or cat to
jump upon any person to the annoyance of the person.
(Prior Code, § 90.055) (Ord. 80-102, passed 4-7-1980) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.046 DOGS CHASING VEHICLES OR BICYCLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing any dog to permit
such dog to chase any motor vehicle or bicycle traveling upon any public or
private street or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 90.056) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.047 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing any dangerous
dog to permit such dangerous dog to run at large, whether such dog be muzzled
or unmuzzled.
   (B)   Any dangerous dog running at large shall be taken up and impounded
whenever possible. However, if the village dog catcher or any village police
officer reasonably believes that such dog in any way endangers any person, such
officials are authorized to kill such dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.057) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.048 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to instigate, cause, procure or
encourage any fight between animals, either in private or in public.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt or attempt to kill by any
means any game animal or game birds within the village.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to treat any animal within the
village in any cruel manner whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 90.058) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.049 INTENTIONAL INJURING OF ANIMALS.
   In addition to the other prohibitions of this subchapter, no person shall
kill or wound, or attempt to kill or wound, by any means whatsoever, any bird
or squirrel, or rob or injure the nest of such creatures or enter upon any
private premises or public place, for the purpose of doing any act prohibited
by this section. However, this section shall not apply to crows, starlings,
hawks, sparrows and pigeons.
(Prior Code, § 90.059) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.050 DUTY UPON STRIKING ANIMAL WITH MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who kills or injures any animal
while driving a motor vehicle to leave the scene of the accident without first
stopping and rendering such assistance as is practical.
   (B)   Such person shall immediately report the incident to the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 90.060) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.051 PROCUREMENT OF ANIMAL WITHOUT KNOWLEDGE OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to procure or acquire, or
attempt to procure or acquire, or knowingly cause or aid in the procurement or
acquisition of any animal for any purpose without the consent of the owner
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 90.061) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.052 ABANDONING ANIMALS WITHIN VILLAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in control of any animal to
abandon such animal within the village.
(Prior Code, § 90.062) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.053 KEEPING ANIMALS IN SANITARY CONDITION.
   Every owner or person in possession of an animal shall maintain his or her
animal in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Prior Code, § 90.063) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.054 OFFENSIVE ODORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit offensive odors to
emanate from the premises where he or she keeps any animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.064) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.055 FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in possession of any female dog to
permit such female dog, to run at large within the village at any time while
such dog is in heat.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty for which the owner shall be liable under §
90.999 of this chapter, such dog shall be impounded as provided in §§
90.070 through
90.077 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.065) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.056 USE OF ANIMALS FOR INDECENT PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to in any manner instigate, cause,
procure, participate in or assist in any indecent, lewd or immoral show, use or
exhibition of an animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.066) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.057 CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED IN VILLAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, use, keep or permit to be
at large within the village any of the following animals: bees; pigeons;
horses; cattle; sheep; ponies; mules; goats; pigs; swine; hogs; ducks; geese;
chickens; minks; skunks; foxes; or any other livestock or poultry; or any wild
or vicious animal dangerous to humankind.
   (B)   Any animal named above which is found at large within the village
shall be impounded, if possible. However, whenever any police officer believes
such animal endangers any person, such animal may be killed by the officer.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalties imposed upon any person violating
this section, such person shall also be liable for the costs of impounding or
killing such animal, if necessary.
(Prior Code, § 90.067) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.058 DISEASED OR DYING ANIMALS; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to allow any animal afflicted with any contagious
or infectious disease to run at large or to be exposed in any public place
whereby the health of persons or other animals may be affected; nor shall such
diseased animal be removed or shipped from the premises of the owner thereof,
except under the supervision of the Code Enforcement Officer or a licensed
veterinarian.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall cause such disposition of any
diseased animal and such treatment of affected premises as to prevent the
communication or spread of contagion or infection.
   (C)   Whenever any animal is in any street or public place within the
village and appears, in the estimation of any police officer or Code
Enforcement Officer, to be injured or diseased beyond recovery, and is not
being attended and properly cared for by the owner or other proper person in
control thereof, and whenever such animal has not been removed to some private
premises or other place designated by such officer within one hour after being
found or left in such condition, such animal may be put to death by such
officer or his or her authorized agent and, unless at once removed by the
owner, shall be treated as any other dead animal found on a street or public
place, as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 90.068) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.059 DEAD OR DYING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Removal required. Any person possessing any dead animal or any animal
injured or diseased beyond recovery, which is not killed for meat or is
improper for use as meat, or which is in an offensive condition or sick with an
infectious or contagious disease, shall at once notify the Code Enforcement
Officer thereof, and upon the Code Enforcement Officer’s order such person at
his or her own expense shall at once remove or cause the removal of such
animal.
   (B)   Disposal regulated. It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon,
deposit or throw upon a place or street or public water, or to offensively
expose or bury anywhere within the village, the body or any part thereof of any
dead or fatally diseased or injured animal; nor shall any person keep any dead
animal or any offensive meat, bird, fowl or fish in a place where the same may
be dangerous to the life or detrimental to the health of any person.
(Prior Code, § 90.069) Penalty, see §
90.999
IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURE
§ 90.070 VILLAGE ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The village shall provide and maintain an animal shelter suitable for the
impounding, confining and maintenance of all animals running at large or
otherwise subject to impounding as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.080)
§ 90.071 ANIMAL WELFARE OFFICER.
   The village shall provide an Animal Welfare Officer in charge of the animal
shelter whose duties shall include:
   (A)   The impounding of all animals delivered to him or her;
   (B)   The maintenance of suitable means for impounding such animals;
   (C)   The feeding, maintenance and humane treatment of all animals impounded
therein;
   (D)   The keeping of each animal separate from all other animals therein;
   (E)   The maintenance of a register in which he or she shall enter
immediately upon receiving an animal the breed, color, sex, age and, if
licensed, the name and address of the owner, and the number of the license tag.
The disposition of such animal shall be entered in the register at the proper
time; and
   (F)   The giving of notice to the owner of a licensed animal by telephone,
mail or otherwise, or the exercise of a reasonable effort to ascertain and
notify the owner of any unlicensed animal impounded. If the owner of any animal
is not ascertained within 24 hours after impounding, such officer shall cause
public notice to be made thereof by posting a copy of the description of such
animal and the date of impounding at the shelter.
(Prior Code, § 90.081)
§ 90.072 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL WELFARE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to liberate or attempt to liberate any
animal impounded in the animal shelter, or any animal captured or within a
vehicle and being conveyed to the shelter, or to interfere in any manner with
the Animal Welfare Officer or his or her authorized agent in the performance of
their duties.
(Prior Code, § 90.082) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.073 MINIMUM PERIOD BEFORE DISPOSAL.
   Except as provided by §§
90.040 through
90.050 of this chapter with respect to dogs under observation for rabies, an
animal in the shelter shall be held therein at least four days for redemption.
(Prior Code, § 90.083)
§ 90.074 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any person seeking to redeem any impounded animal shall pay a fee in
an amount to be determined by the Village Board and an additional fee for each
day after the first during which such animal has been impounded.
   (B)   In addition, such person must prove that the animal is properly
licensed and inoculated or vaccinated against rabies as provided in this
chapter. Absent such proof, no such animal shall be released from the shelter
until the animal be properly licensed and vaccinated, and until all costs and
expenses thereof be paid to the Village Clerk and the Animal Welfare Officer,
respectively.
(Prior Code, § 90.084)
§ 90.075 UNCLAIMED ANIMALS.
   Whenever a person has not redeemed an impounded animal, including the paying
of all required costs, within the allotted period, such animal may be killed in
a humane manner. However, when any reputable institution of medical or
scientific research of learning shall apply in writing to the Village President
for permission to use impounded and unclaimed animals for scientific purposes
only, the President may surrender to such institution such unclaimed animals as
are available.
(Prior Code, § 90.085)
§ 90.076 EX-OFFICIO ANIMAL WELFARE OFFICER.
   In the absence of a duly appointed Animal Welfare Officer, the Chief of
Police shall be ex-officio Animal Welfare Officer and shall exercise the powers
and duties prescribed for the Animal Welfare Officer in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.086)
§ 90.077 TEMPORARY ANIMAL SHELTER.
   In the absence of a permanently established village animal shelter, the
Village Board may designate a temporary village animal shelter by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 90.087)
PET SHOPS
§ 90.090 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PET SHOP OPERATOR. Any person who sells, offers for sale or exchange, or
offers for adoption, with or without charge or donation, any dogs, cats, birds
or other animals commonly kept as pets, or who sells or offers for sale or
exchange any food, supplies or equipment for such animals or pets.
(Prior Code, § 90.100)
§ 90.091 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business or activity of
a pet shop operator within the village unless he or she shall be currently duly
licensed as such under the provisions of the Animal Welfare Act, being 225 ILCS
605/1 et seq., where required.
(Prior Code, § 90.101) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.092 DUTIES OF PET SHOP OPERATOR.
   Every pet shop operator shall:
   (A)   Maintain proper sanitary conditions and ensure property ventilation;
   (B)   Provide adequate nutrition and humane care and treatment for all
animals under his or her custody;
   (C)   Take reasonable care to release for sale, trade or adoption only those
animals which are free from disease, injuries or abnormalities. A health
certificate meeting the requirements of the state’s Health Department and
issued by a licensed veterinarian for any such animal within five days before
such sale, trade or adoption shall be prima facie evidence that the pet shop
operator has taken reasonable care as required herein; and
   (D)   Comply with all applicable provisions of this code regulating health,
sanitation and safety.
(Prior Code, § 90.102) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.093 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   The Code Enforcement Officer or his or her authorized agent shall have power
to inspect at any reasonable time the premises of any pet shop operator to
determine compliance with this chapter or any applicable provisions of the
state law.
(Prior Code, § 90.103)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 91: CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEMS
Section
   
91.01   Franchise required
   
91.02   Unauthorized connections
   
91.03   Tampering with equipment prohibited
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install or maintain within
any public street in the village or within any other public property of the
village, or within any privately-owned area within the village which has not
yet become a public street, but is designated or delineated as a proposed
public street on any tentative subdivision map approved by the village, any
equipment or facilities for distributing any television signals or radio
signals through a cable television system, unless a franchise authorizing such
use of such street or property or area has first been obtained, and unless such
franchise is in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 535, passed 7-14-1979) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make any
unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically,
inductively or otherwise, with any part of the franchised cable television
system within the village for the purpose of enabling himself, herself or
others to receive any television signal, radio signal, picture, program or
sound, without payment to the operator of the system.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 535, passed 7-14-1979) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner, to
willfully tamper with, remove or injure any cables, wires or equipment used for
distribution of television signals, radio signals, pictures, program or sound.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 535, passed 7-14-1979) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 92: CIVIL EMERGENCY
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Declaration of emergency
   
92.03   General curfew
   
92.04   Orders by President
   
92.05   Duration of proclamation
   
92.06   Notice of proclamation
   
92.07   Provisions to be construed together with other provisions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY. Includes:
      (1)   Any riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute, by three or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
      (2)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village,
excepting officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated
to duty with reference to the civil emergency.
(Prior Code, § 92.01)
§ 92.02 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever a civil emergency, as defined in §
92.01 of this chapter, exists, the President shall declare its existence by
means of a written declaration setting forth the facts which constitute the
emergency.
(Prior Code, § 92.02)
§ 92.03 GENERAL CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the President, he or she may
order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village or
to the village as a whole as he or she deems advisable, and applicable during
such hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary in the interest of
the public safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 92.03)
§ 92.04 ORDERS BY PRESIDENT.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Village President may also
in the interest of public safety and welfare make any or all of the following
orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail alcoholic liquor businesses, including
taverns and private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of
intoxicating liquor and beer is permitted;
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away of
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever;
   (E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property; and
   (F)   Call out the state militia to aid in suppressing riots or the carrying
into effect of any law or ordinance subject to the approval of the Governor of
the state, as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-25.
(Prior Code, § 92.04)
§ 92.05 DURATION OF PROCLAMATION.
   The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of 48
hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the Village President
indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The President shall have
the power to reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each
48-hour period during the time the civil emergency exists.
(Prior Code, § 92.05)
§ 92.06 NOTICE OF PROCLAMATION.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Chief of Police shall
notify any news media situated within the village and shall cause three copies
of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at
the village hall.
(Prior Code, § 92.06)
§ 92.07 PROVISIONS TO BE CONSTRUED TOGETHER WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in other chapters of this code or any rules or regulations pursuant
thereto, giving powers to the Police and Fire Departments, but shall be
construed together with existing ordinances that are now, or shall be, in
effect for the safety and welfare of the citizens of the village.
(Prior Code, § 92.07)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.001   Obstruction of stairways or exits
   
93.002   Bonfires
Fire Prevention Code
   
93.015   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code by reference
Liquified Petroleum Gas
   
93.030   Definitions
   
93.031   Compliance with provisions
   
93.032   Standards adopted; exceptions
   
93.033   Equipment; permit required
   
93.034   Storage; permit required
   
93.035   Quantity limits; location of containers
Flammable Liquids
   
93.050   Use, storage and the like
   
93.051   Tank trucks carrying gasoline and the like
Explosives
   
93.065   Definition
   
93.066   Transportation of explosives
   
93.067   Storage and sale of explosives; permit required
   
93.068   Use of explosive; permit required
Fireworks
   
93.080   Definition
   
93.081   Sale, use or storage of fireworks
   
93.082   Seizure authorized
   
93.083   Exceptions to provisions
 
   
93.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.001 OBSTRUCTION OF STAIRWAYS OR EXITS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisles, corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school,
church, theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall or any building used
by two or more tenants or families in such a manner that it interferes with the
free use of such stairway, aisle, corridor or exit.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.002 BONFIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to build or light any bonfire so close to any
building or other structure as to endanger such building or structure or upon
any asphalt street or sidewalk pavement.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to burn papers, excelsior or other material
within the village which may be blown about by the wind, unless the same is
burned in a stove, fireplace or furnace, or an incinerator with a trap
sufficiently fine to prevent the escape of flash or ignited particles.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to burn grass or leaves at any time within the
village corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 94-105, passed 11-7-1994; Ord. 10-102, passed 3-15-
2010) Penalty, see §
93.999
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 93.015 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, the
most current edition of that certain code known as the “Fire Prevention Code,”
abbreviated edition, recommended by the American Insurance Association and any
amendments thereto, which Code is on file in the office of the Village Clerk
and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein, and the provisions thereof, shall be controlling within the
limits of the village.
   (B)   However, in the event any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention
Code are in conflict with state law, this code of ordinances or other ordinance
of the village, then such state law, other provision of this code of ordinances
or ordinance of the village shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 93.10)
LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS
§ 93.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS. Any material composed predominantly of any of the
following hydrocarbons, or mixtures of them: propane; propylene; butane (normal
butane or isobutane); and butylenes.
   LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS EQUIPMENT. All containers, apparatus, piping (not
including utility distribution piping systems) and equipment pertinent to the
storage and handling of liquified petroleum gas. Gas-consuming appliances shall
not be considered as being LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS EQUIPMENT.
(Prior Code, § 93.20)
§ 93.031 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to produce, store or use liquified petroleum gas or to
install or maintain any equipment for such production or use, unless such
production, storage and utilization equipment is constructed and maintained in
compliance with all provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.21) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.032 STANDARDS ADOPTED; EXCEPTIONS.
   There is hereby adopted by the village for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the production, handling, use or storage of liquified
petroleum gas, those certain standards known as Standards for the Storage and
Handling of Liquified Petroleum Gas, Pamphlet Number 58, published by the
National Fire Protection Association, being particularly the July 1969 edition
thereof, and the whole thereof including all appendices thereto, save and
except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which
not less than three copies have been and now are filed in the office of the
Village Clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if
set out at length herein, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the village. However, in the event any of the
provisions of such Pamphlet No. 58 are in conflict with the state law, this
code of ordinances or other ordinance of the village, then such state law,
other provisions of said code or other ordinance of the village shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 93.22)
§ 93.033 EQUIPMENT; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No equipment for the utilization of production of liquified petroleum
gas shall be installed within the village unless a permit therefor shall have
first been secured from the Fire Chief.
   (B)   No such equipment shall be installed or used unless it complies with
the standards therefor established in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.23) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.034 STORAGE; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No container for storage of liquified petroleum gas shall be installed
on any premises until a permit for such installation has been issued by the
Fire Chief.
   (B)   No such permit shall be issued unless the premises and equipment
thereon to be used in such activity are in compliance with the standards
therefor established in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.24) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.035 QUANTITY LIMITS; LOCATION OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   (1)   The maximum capacity of a container for storage of liquified
petroleum gas on any premises within the village shall be 2,000 gallons’ water
capacity.
      (2)   However, in any particular installation, this capacity limit may be
altered at the discretion of the Fire Chief after consideration of special
circumstances such as topographical conditions, nature of occupancy and
proximity to buildings, facilities of the Fire Department, degree of private
fire protection to be provided and due regard to the protection of heavily
populated or congested commercial areas.
   (B)   Any container for liquified petroleum gas shall be located no less
than ten feet from any lot line.
(Prior Code, § 93.25) Penalty, see §
93.999
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
§ 93.050 USE, STORAGE AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, store, transport, sell or use
any crude petroleum, benzene, benzol, gasoline, naphtha, ether or other like
volatile combustibles in any manner which will jeopardize life or property.
(Prior Code, § 93.35) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.051 TANK TRUCKS CARRYING GASOLINE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No tank truck conveying gasoline or other volatile liquids within the
village shall park or stand upon any street, alley or other public way, except
for the purpose of unloading. However, the standing of such vehicle made
necessary by mechanical trouble, traffic conditions, accident or in obedience
to the direction of a police officer or traffic signal shall not be considered
a violation of the section.
   (B)   Any tank truck unloading gasoline or other volatile liquid within the
village shall have present at all times some person having authority over such
vehicle to supervise and watch such unloading and to prevent the danger of
explosives by reason of any fire hazard.
   (C)   Tank trucks carrying flammable or volatile liquids shall not travel at
any speed in excess of ten miles less than the posted speed limits.
(Prior Code, § 93.36) Penalty, see §
93.999
EXPLOSIVES
§ 93.065 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound and any mechanical mixture (including
gases) containing any oxidizing and combustible units, or other ingredients in
such proportions, quantities or parking that an ignition by fire, friction,
concussion or percussion or detonation of any part of the compound or mixture
may cause sudden generation of highly heated gases so that the resultant
gaseous pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous
objects or of destroying life or limb.
(Prior Code, § 93.45)
§ 93.066 TRANSPORTATION OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be used for the transportation of explosives within
the village unless it shall be in good mechanical condition. Such vehicles
shall have a closed body or such body shall be covered with a tarpaulin or
other effective protection against moisture and sparks.
   (B)   Every vehicle while carrying explosives shall have painted on every
side and rear in letters at least four inches in height the word “EXPLOSIVES”
or, in lieu thereof, shall display in such manner that it will be visible from
all directions a red flag with the word “DANGER” printed, stamped or sewed
thereon in white letters at least six inches in height.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or carry or cause to be
placed or carried any metal, metal tools, oils, matches, firearms, electric
storage batteries, flammable substances, acids, oxidizing or corrosive
compounds in the bed or body of a vehicle containing explosives.
   (D)   No vehicle carrying explosives shall be parked or permitted to stand
anywhere within the village longer than is necessary to make a lawful delivery.
However, the standing of such vehicle made necessary by mechanical trouble,
traffic conditions, accident or in obedience to the direction of a police
officer or traffic signal shall not be considered a violation of this section.
   (E)   Whenever a vehicle carrying explosives or flammable liquids is
disabled within the village, warning flags or lights shall be posted and it
shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle carrying explosives to remain
unattended at any such time.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle carrying explosives or
flammable liquids on any street within the village that is so slippery because
of ice, snow or from any other cause as to be unsafe for driving.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person including the driver, operator,
attendant or any helper of a vehicle containing explosives or flammable liquids
to smoke or hold any lighted cigar, cigarette or pipe in, upon or near such
vehicle carrying flammable liquids or explosives while it is being operated,
loaded or unloaded; or to drive or to load such vehicle in a careless or
reckless manner.
   (H)   The provisions of this section relating to the transportation of
explosives shall not apply to the transportation of ammunition by the Armed
Forces of the United States or of the state, or by law enforcement officers in
the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 93.46) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.067 STORAGE AND SALE OF EXPLOSIVES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall have, possess, store, sell, lend or give away to any user or
consumer any dynamite, blasting powder, black powder, nitroglycerine or any
other explosive, as defined in §
93.065 of this chapter, within the village, except by virtue of a permit issued
by the Fire Chief. However, this section shall not apply to the storage of
loaded shells for small arms use, nor the hand loading of small arms ammunition
for private personal use or use by law enforcement agencies.
(Prior Code, § 93.47) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.068 USE OF EXPLOSIVE; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall use or discharge any dynamite, blasting powder,
nitroglycerine or other explosive within the village, except for blasting
operations in accordance with the terms and conditions of a permit to be issued
by the Superintendent of Public Works, in his or her reasonable discretion.
However, the Fire and Police Departments must be notified at least two hours in
advance of any such use.
(Prior Code, § 93.48) Penalty, see §
93.999
FIREWORKS
§ 93.080 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any explosive composition or substance or combination of
substances prepared for the purpose of producing an audible or visible effect
by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation. It shall include blank
cartridges, toy cannons in which explosives are used, the type of balloons
which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes,
skyrockets, Roman candles, bombs or other fireworks of similar construction or
any other tablets and devices containing any explosive substance, compound or
mixture. However, the term FIREWORKS shall not include toy pistols, toy guns or
other devices in which paper or plastic caps containing 0.25 grains or less of
explosive compound are used; provided that, they are so constructed that the
hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion.
(Prior Code, § 93.60)
§ 93.081 SALE, USE OR STORAGE OF FIREWORKS.
   No person shall sell, offer for sale, expose for sale, loan, give away,
store or have in possession with intent to sell, or to use, discharge or cause
to be discharged, fired or otherwise set in action within the village any
fireworks, as above defined. However, public exhibition of fireworks and
pyrotechnics may be given if a permit therefor be granted by the Board of
Trustees. Such public exhibition for which a permit has been duly acquired
shall be subject to the supervision of the Fire Chief or of some person
designated by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 93.61) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.082 SEIZURE AUTHORIZED.
   The Fire Chief, with approval of the Board of Trustees, shall seize, take,
remove or cause to be removed, at the expense of the owner, all stocks of
fireworks offered or exposed for sale, stored or held in violation of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.62)
§ 93.083 EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   The use of fireworks by railroads or other transportation agencies for
signal or illumination purposes. However, such used articles will be disposed
of by burying the same in the ground or immersing the same in water;
   (B)   The use of blank cartridges for signal or ceremonial purposes in
athletics or sports contests; or
   (C)   Use by the Armed Forces of the United States or the state.
(Prior Code, § 93.63)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Policy and purpose
   
94.02   Births, deaths and the like
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village to regulate and
control all persons under its jurisdiction insofar as reasonably necessary for
the purposes of public health as provided for in this subchapter. Whenever any
ambiguity or uncertainty exists, the provisions of this subchapter shall be
interpreted, if possible, to effectuate the above declaration of policy.
(Prior Code, § 94.01)
§ 94.02 BIRTHS, DEATHS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Code Enforcement Officer to record.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer to collect and
keep records pertaining to miscarriages, stillbirths, births, illnesses,
accidents and deaths occurring within the village and, at appropriate times, to
compile statistics in regard to such and prepare indices therefrom as are
useful in determining the health status of the village.
      (2)   This section shall become effective at such times as the Board of
Trustees shall, by resolution, deem it possible to carry out its provisions.
   (B)   Doctors to report. It shall be the duty of the doctor or attendant at
any birth, stillbirth or death to file a proper record of the same on proper
form provided by the Code Enforcement Officer in the office of said Officer.
This division (B) shall become effective at such time as the Board of Trustees
shall, by resolution, deem it possible to carry out its provisions.
(Prior Code, § 94.02)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 95: JUNKED AND ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
Junked Motor Vehicles
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Declared nuisance
   
95.03   Parking or storing prohibited
   
95.04   Motor vehicle parts not to be stored in open
   
95.05   Enforcement of provisions; notice to abate nuisance
   
95.06   Removal by village
   
95.07   Motor vehicle lien; personal judgment
Abandoned Vehicles
   
95.20   Definitions
   
95.21   Unlawful to abandon motor vehicle
   
95.22   Towing of abandoned vehicles
   
95.23   Search for owner of vehicle
   
95.24   Owner may reclaim vehicle
   
95.25   Disposition of unclaimed vehicles
   
95.26   Report of transaction
   
95.27   Proceeds from public sale
   
95.28   Liability
 
   
95.99   Penalty
JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT.
      (1)   A person, firm, corporation, association or organization that acts
for, or in place of, another person or authority for an owner or his or her
representative or employee.
      (2)   The term AGENT shall also mean any person, firm, corporation or
organization that has the immediate responsibility for the maintenance of
property, but does not own the property.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE or DISABLED VEHICLE. Any vehicle, including trailers,
recreational vehicles and boats, which are without currently valid license
plates, or are in either substantially wrecked, discarded, dismantled,
inoperable or abandoned condition.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United
States, in accordance with federal statute or regulation and any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law and,
in addition thereto, any periodical or current magazine regularly published and
sold to the public.
   NUISANCE. Any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is
detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which such premises are located.
   OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Has legal or equitable title to any premises, dwelling, dwelling
unit or building (residential or non-residential) with or without accompanying
actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Has charge, care or control of any premises, dwelling, dwelling
unit or business building as agent of the owner or as executor, administrator,
trustee or guardian of the estate of the beneficial owner.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure
designated or used either wholly or in part for private residential or
commercial purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant, and any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps,
vestibule or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building
or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys and other
public ways and any and all public squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway or used for recreational purposes.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 89-103, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 95.02 DECLARED NUISANCE.
   The parking or storing of junked or disabled motor vehicles and the storing
or allowing to remain in the open of motor vehicle bodies, parts, equipment,
motors and materials is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. 89-103, passed 7-24-1989) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 PARKING OR STORING PROHIBITED.
   Junked or disabled motor vehicles may not be parked, stored or left in the
open on public property or upon open, private land not enclosed by garage or
carport and in view of the general public for a period of more than seven days
in any one calendar month unless it is necessary for the operation of a
business enterprise lawfully conducted thereon. Further, any junked or disabled
motor vehicle may not be parked, stored or allowed to remain for any period of
time on any public or private land if same jeopardizes the public safety by
either creating an unsafe condition or significantly hindering the efficient
movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) (Ord. 89-103, passed 7-24-1989) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS NOT TO BE STORED IN OPEN.
   The storing, placing or allowing to remain in the open of any motor vehicle
parts on public property or upon open, private land not enclosed by garage or
carport and in view of the general public for a period of more than seven days
in any one calendar month unless it is necessary for the operation of a
business enterprise lawfully conducted thereon. Further, any junked or disabled
motor vehicle may not be parked, stored or allowed to remain for any period of
time on any public or private land if same jeopardizes the public safety by
either creating an unsafe condition or significantly hindering the efficient
movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 95.04) (Ord. 89-103, passed 7-24-1989) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS; NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Department of Code Enforcement and the
Police Department to enforce the provisions of this subchapter and to notify
the owner or person in control of any private property of any violations of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Owners or persons in control of any private property shall remove
junked or disabled vehicles, parked or stored in violation of this subchapter
to a completely enclosed location on the property or otherwise remove the same
from said property. Owners or persons in control of any private property must
relocate any motor vehicle, bodies, parts, equipment, motors and materials,
stored, placed or allowed to remain in the open to a completely enclosed
location on the property or otherwise to remove the same from the premises.
   (C)   Notice for violations shall be given by any inspector from the
Department of Code Enforcement or by any police officer of the Police
Department or by any person authorized by law to make personal service of a
copy of the complaint or by certified or registered mail of a copy of the
complaint which is addressed to the residence or usual place of business of the
owner or person in control of the private property; and, where notice as above
provided cannot be made, then the notice may be made by publication.
(Prior Code, § 95.05) (Ord. 89-103, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 95.06 REMOVAL BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   Upon the failure of the owner of any property to comply with the
notice to remove and dispose of any junked or disabled motor vehicle or any
body, part, equipment, motor or material thereof within 48 hours of the service
of notice, the village may proceed to remove and dispose of any junked or
disabled motor vehicle or any body, part, equipment, motor and material
thereof.
   (B)   Upon the seizure and/or towing of any junked or disabled motor vehicle
or any body, part, equipment, motor or material thereof, the owner of said
property shall be afforded a prompt post-seizure hearing before the village’s
Attorney, or his or her designated representative, at which hearing the owner
will have an opportunity to contest the seizure and/or tow, prior to the
disposal thereof. Further, the village must make a showing of probable cause
for said seizure prior to the disposal or demolition of said property. Should
the Village Attorney, or his or her designated representative, determine that
the seizure of said property was without probable cause, the property shall be
returned to the owner thereof; otherwise, the village may proceed to dispose of
the property; provided, however, at the time of the hearing, the Village
Attorney or his or her designated representative is empowered or authorized,
after consultation with the Chief of Police or the Code Enforcement Officer, as
the case may be, to make any suitable disposition of the property other than
the sale or demolition thereof.
(Prior Code, § 95.06) (Ord. 89-103, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 95.07 MOTOR VEHICLE LIEN; PERSONAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of §
95.06 of this chapter, the cost and expense of removing and disposing of junked
or disabled motor vehicles or any body, part, equipment, motor and material
thereof from private property shall be recoverable from the owner or owners of
the real estate and is a lien thereon, which lien shall be superior to all
prior existing liens and encumbrances, except taxes; provided, however, that,
within 90 days after completion of the removing and disposing of such motor
vehicles or their parts, the corporation counsel shall file a notice of lien
for the cost and expense incurred by the village, in the office of the Recorder
of Deeds in the county. Upon payment of the cost of removing and disposing of
the junked or disabled motor vehicle or any body, part, equipment, motor and
material thereof, the lien shall be released by the corporation counsel.
   (B)   The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in case of
mortgages or mechanics liens. Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced by
the corporation counsel within three years after the date of filing of notice
of lien.
   (C)   If payment of the village’s cost of removing and disposing of the
junked or disabled motor vehicle or any body, part, equipment, motor and
material thereof is not paid to the village within 15 days of the filing of the
notice of lien, the corporation counsel may commence proceedings in the Circuit
Court seeking a personal judgment from the owner of the subject property at the
time the proceedings are commenced in the amount of the costs. The action
authorized by this division (C) shall be in addition to, and without waiver of,
any other remedies.
(Prior Code, § 95.07) (Ord. 89-103, passed 7-24-1989)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 95.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley or public way within the village.
(Prior Code, § 95.20) (Ord. 480, passed 6-1-1970)
§ 95.21 UNLAWFUL TO ABANDON MOTOR VEHICLE.
   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on
any highway in the village is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth
herein. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof
on private or public property, other than a highway, in view of the general
public, anywhere in the village is unlawful, except on property of the owner or
bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A motor driven vehicle or other vehicle or
any part thereof so abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal
by or upon the order of the Chief of Police after a waiting period of seven
days or more has expired.
(Prior Code, § 95.21) (Ord. 480, passed 6-1-1970) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.22 TOWING OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in the
state, not the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the
Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the
village. Upon receipt of such notification, the Chief of Police shall authorize
a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen
or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service will safely
keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the tow until the
vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally entitled to
possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in the
village for ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department.
   (C)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a towing service
may be authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department.
   (D)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department, the owner of the
vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
   (E)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away,
the Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade name,
manufacturer’s series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
(Prior Code, § 95.22) (Ord. 480, passed 6-1-1970)
§ 95.23 SEARCH FOR OWNER OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   When the Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, it will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
   (B)   (1)   The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files
of the State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the State
Police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle.
      (2)   When the State Police files are searched with negative results, the
information contained in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files
will be searched by the State Police.
      (3)   The information determined from these record searches will be used
by the Police Department in sending a notification by certified mail to the
owner or legally entitled person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting
a disposition be made and setting forth public sale information.
   (C)   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of the state or from the registration files of a foreign
state, if applicable, the Police Department shall notify the State Police for
the purpose of identifying the vehicle’s owner or other person legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the State Police
will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of
the vehicle for notification of owner.
(Prior Code, § 95.23) (Ord. 480, passed 6-1-1970)
§ 95.24 OWNER MAY RECLAIM VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public
sale or disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally
entitled to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police
Department proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the
vehicle.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this
section until all towing and storage charges have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 95.24) (Ord. 480, passed 6-1-1970)
§ 95.25 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle, seven years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of 30
days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in
a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises
where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the sale, the
Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be
sent by certified mail to the registered owner or other person known by the
Police Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of
the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to
be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim
the vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of the state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
   (C)   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven
years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this
subchapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in the
manner authorized by this subchapter without notice to the registered owner or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
   (D)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is impounded
as specified by this subchapter, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of
ten days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of the
registered owner by the U.S. mail, public service or in person for a
determination of disposition; and, an examination of the State Police stolen
motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the
ten-day period, without the benefit of disposition information being received
from the registered owner, the Chief of Police will authorize the disposal of
the vehicle as junk only.
   (E)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is
excluded from this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.25) (Ord. 480, passed 6-1-1970)
§ 95.26 REPORT OF TRANSACTION.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled
person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this subchapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by
the Police Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or
disposal.
(Prior Code, § 95.26) (Ord. 480, passed 6-1-1970)
§ 95.27 PROCEEDS FROM PUBLIC SALE.
   When a vehicle located within the village is authorized to be towed away by
the Chief of Police and disposed of as set forth in this subchapter, the
proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the deduction of towing,
storage and processing charges shall be deposited in the village treasury.
(Prior Code, § 95.27) (Ord. 480, passed 6-1-1970)
§ 95.28 LIABILITY.
   Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or his or her legal representative, or any
other person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other
vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.28) (Ord. 480, passed 6-1-1970)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 96: NOISE
Section
   
96.01   Loud, unnecessary noises prohibited
   
96.02   Prohibited acts enumerated
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 LOUD, UNNECESSARY NOISES PROHIBITED.
   The creating of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise
within the limits of the village is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 PROHIBITED ACTS ENUMERATED.
   The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary
noises in violation of this chapter, but this enumeration shall not be deemed
to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Blowing horns. The sounding of any horn or signal device on any
automobile, motorcycle or bus so as to create an unreasonably loud or harsh
sound; and the sounding of such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable
period of time;
   (B)   Radios, phonographs, and the like. The playing of any radio,
phonograph or musical instrument with such volume, particularly between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., as to unreasonably annoy or disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, hospital dwelling, hotel or
other such building;
   (C)   Yelling, shouting, hooting, and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling or singing, particularly on the public streets between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any other time or place so as to unreasonably
annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity;
   (D)   Pets. The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl which, by causing
frequent or long continued noises, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
person in the vicinity;
   (E)   Blowing whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler, other than to give notice of the time to begin or stop work
or as a warning of fire or danger or upon request of proper village
authorities;
   (F)   Exhaust discharge. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motor
boat engine, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively
prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom;
   (G)   Building operations. The erection (including excavation), demolition,
alteration or repair of any building, or the excavation of streets or public
places, in any residential area, other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
6:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday, except in case of urgent necessity in the
interest of public health and safety, and then only with a written permit from
the Code Enforcement Officer;
   (H)   Noises near schools, hospitals, churches and the like. The creation of
any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of
learning, church or court while the same are in session, or adjacent to any
hospital which unreasonably interferes with the workings or sessions thereof;
   (I)   Noises to attract attention. The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other
instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of
noise to any performance, show or sale or display of merchandise; and
   (J)   Loudspeaker or amplifiers. The unreasonable use of any amplifiers or
loudspeakers in the course of any public address.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) Penalty, see §
96.99
Cross-reference:
   Animals disturbing the peace and repose of the community, see §
90.040
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 97: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
97.01   Definition
   
97.02   Nuisances declared unlawful
   
97.03   Nuisances not enumerated herein
   
97.04   Enumeration not exclusive
   
97.05   Duty of village officers to investigate; power of entry
   
97.06   Notice to proper officials
Enumeration of Nuisances
   
97.20   Foul odors, filth and the like
   
97.21   Rubbish, dry grass and the like
   
97.22   Weeds
   
97.23   Petroleum products and explosives
   
97.24   Unsafe buildings
   
97.25   Abandoned refrigerators
   
97.26   Inoperable motor vehicles, equipment
   
97.27   Dust, cinders and the like
   
97.28   Scaffolding, ladders and the like
Abatement Procedures
   
97.40   Notice to abate nuisance
   
97.41   Abatement of nuisance; duty to abate; time limits
   
97.42   Failure to abate; separate and recurring offense
   
97.43   Abatement by village
   
97.44   Summary abatement by village when emergency or on public property
   
97.45   Costs of abatement; debt of owner
 
   
97.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Any thing, act, omission, occupation or condition which shall
exist or continue for such a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the health, safety, peace
or welfare of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life or property;
      (3)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or render
dangerous for passage any street, sidewalk, alley, navigable body or other
pubic way or place.
(Prior Code, § 97.01)
§ 97.02 NUISANCES DECLARED UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to
wilfully or negligently create, erect, maintain or permit a nuisance to exist
anywhere within the village.
(Prior Code, § 97.02) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 NUISANCES NOT ENUMERATED HEREIN.
   Any nuisance declared by statute, this chapter or other provisions of this
code shall be enforceable under the provisions of this chapter as if enumerated
specifically herein.
(Prior Code, § 97.03)
§ 97.04 ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   Nuisances enumerated in this chapter shall not be deemed exclusive, but are
in addition to and to be construed in conjunction with any other nuisances
enumerated in statutes or other provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 97.04)
§ 97.05 DUTY OF VILLAGE OFFICERS TO INVESTIGATE; POWER OF ENTRY.
   (A)   For the purpose of discovering nuisances, it shall be the duty of
police, fire, health and building officers and inspectors to investigate,
confirm and report any nuisances coming to their attention.
   (B)   In order to investigate, confirm and report nuisances, the officers
and inspectors shall, upon proper identification, be permitted, at any
reasonable hour and in a reasonable manner, to visit and enter into or upon any
premises or property within the village to make an examination thereof, if they
shall have reasonable grounds to believe that a nuisance exists.
(Prior Code, § 97.05)
§ 97.06 NOTICE TO PROPER OFFICIALS.
   Whenever any nuisance shall be reported to or investigated and determined by
the police, fire, health or building officers or inspectors, notice shall be
given to the owner or person in control of the property or premises involved,
and to the appropriate village officials whose functions include the abatement
of such nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 97.06)
ENUMERATION OF NUISANCES
§ 97.20 FOUL ODORS, FILTH AND THE LIKE.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a danger to the health, safety,
welfare, peace and comfort of the village its residents for any person:
   (A)   Businesses. To conduct any business or to use any premises so as to
create an offensive or foul odor which taints the air and renders it nauseous
to persons in the vicinity;
   (B)   Animals. To keep or maintain any animals in an unclean or filthy
manner or surroundings, or to keep or maintain any animals from which emit any
particularly foul or offensive odors;
   (C)   Animal carcasses and the like. To cause or permit to be collected or
to remain upon any premises or place any animal carcass or any offal, filth,
excretion or other noisome or noxious animal matter of any kind which is, or is
likely to become, putrid, foul or offensive;
   (D)   Vegetable matter. To cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon
any premises or place any slop or other vegetable matter of any kind which is,
or is likely to become putrid, foul or offensive;
   (E)   Cellars, vaults, privies and the like. To cause or permit any cellar,
vault, cistern, drain, privy, yard or other premises whatsoever to become, from
any cause, foul or offensive or injurious to the public health;
   (F)   Stagnant water. To permit to be collected or to stand upon any
premises any foul or stagnant water of any kind;
   (G)   Stables and pigsties. To locate or maintain, or permit to exist or
remain, anywhere within the village any stable or pig sty; and
   (H)   Foul or noxious substances. To use, deposit or keep any property,
substance or thing emitting or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous
or noxious odor, effluvia or stench particularly repulsive to the physical
senses and which annoys, discomforts or endangers, the welfare, health or
safety of any person.
(Prior Code, § 97.15) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.21 RUBBISH, DRY GRASS AND THE LIKE.
   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and health and a
nuisance for any person to cause or permit the following:
   (A)   Rubbish, rags, and the like. The deposit or accumulation of any
refuse, oily rags, rubbish or other materials or substances of any kind, so as
to constitute a fire hazard; and
   (B)   Dry grass, vegetation, and the like. The deposit, accumulation,
existence or growth upon any property of any dry or dead weeds, grass,
vegetation or other like substances of any kind, so as to constitute a fire
hazard.
(Prior Code, § 97.16) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.22 WEEDS.
   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and health and a
nuisance for any person to cause or permit the following:
   (A)   Jimpson, burdock. Any weeds, such as jimpson, burdock, marijuana,
ragweed, thistle, cockleburr or other weeds of a like kind grow in any lot or
tract of land in the village;
   (B)   Height. Any weeds, grass or plants other than trees, bushes, flowers,
vegetables or other ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding eight
inches anywhere in the village; and
   (C)   Barberry bushes. Growth of the bush of the tall, common or European
Barberry, further known as Berberis Vulgaris or its horticultural varieties,
within the village.
(Prior Code, § 97.17)
§ 97.23 PETROLEUM PRODUCTS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit the following:
   (A)   Petroleum products. The accumulation or storage, within 100 yards of
any building occupied as a residence or business, other than a licensed
gasoline service station, of any petroleum, naphtha, benzine, coal oil,
gasoline, kerosene, turpentine or other petroleum products or inflammable
substances of any kind, in quantities greater than 50 gallons; and
   (B)   Explosives. The deposit, accumulation, storage or presence, within 100
yards of any building occupied as a residence or business of any powder
magazine, nitroglycerine, dynamite or other explosive substance of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 97.18) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.24 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit the existence any unsafe, dilapidated or otherwise
insecure building, wall, stack, chimney, cornice, sign, awning or other like
structure of any kind which, from manner of construction, age, condition or
other circumstances, is or may become a menace to the safety of persons or
property.
(Prior Code, § 97.19) Penalty, see §
97.99
Cross-reference:
   Additional building codes and regulations, see §§
150.001 through
150.003 and
150.015
§ 97.25 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit the existence or storage in any place accessible to
children of any abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox, ice chest, deep
freeze or other air-tight appliance or container of any kind, of a capacity of
one and one-half cubic feet or more, from which the lids, doors or other covers
have not been removed, or which cannot be easily opened by a child, by means of
pushing only, from the inside thereof.
(Prior Code, § 97.20) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.26 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Abandoned vehicles.
      (1)   Abandonment prohibited. Abandonment of vehicles is prohibited. All
abandoned vehicles, whether on public or private property and in view of the
general public, are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and shall be unlawful as
provided herein.
         (a)   Highways. The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on
any highway in this village is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth
under §
97.99.
         (b)   Other property. The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof
on private or public property, other than a highway, in view of the general
public, anywhere in the village is unlawful, except on property of the owner or
bailee of that abandoned vehicle. A vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on
private property shall be authorized for removal, by the village’s Police
Department, after a waiting period of seven days or more, or may be removed
immediately if determined to be a hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle under §
11-40-3.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1). A violation of
this section is subject to penalties as set forth under §
97.99.
      (2)   Removal of abandoned vehicles. The Police Department is hereby
authorized to remove any abandoned vehicle in violation of the provisions of
this section.
      (3)   Defined. ABANDONED VEHICLE shall have the same meaning as described
in § 101.05 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1101.05).
   (B)   Inoperable vehicles.
      (1)   Inoperable motor vehicles are a nuisance. All inoperable motor
vehicles, whether on public or private property and in view of the general
public, are hereby declared to be a nuisance. The term INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE
shall have the meaning as described in § 11-40-3 of the Illinois Municipal Code
(65 ILCS 5/11-40-3).
      (2)   Disposal upon notice. All persons are required to dispose of any
inoperable motor vehicles under their control upon written notice received from
the village commanding such disposition of said inoperable motor vehicle.
      (3)   Removal. The Police Department is hereby authorized to remove or
have removed any inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof within the village
after seven days from the issuance of the notice. Such vehicle shall be removed
and held until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/4-
201 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   (C)   Unlicensed vehicles.
      (1)   Unlicensed motor vehicles are a nuisance. All unlicensed motor
vehicles, whether on public or private property and in view of the general
public, are hereby declared to be a nuisance. The term UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLE
shall mean any motor vehicle which does not have valid licenses plates and
registration.
      (2)   Disposal upon notice. All persons are required to dispose of any
unlicensed motor vehicle under their control upon written notice received from
the village commanding such disposition of said unlicensed motor vehicle.
   (D)   Towing and storage charges. In the case of an abandoned or inoperable
motor vehicle towed pursuant to this section, the owner of the vehicle or other
person legally entitled to possession or the person who controls the vehicle is
liable for all associated towing and storage charges.
(Ord. 21-122, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.27 DUST, CINDERS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a menace to the public health and a nuisance for
any person to cause or permit any operations that cause or permit any dirt,
sand, gravel, cinders, ashes, earth or other similar materials to be hauled,
moved, rolled, compacted, scraped, dragged or otherwise disturbed, so as to
cause or permit dust to be raised, blown or stirred through the operation of
machinery or otherwise, to the detriment of any person or property.
   (B)   Every person engaged in hauling of any sand, dirt, cinders, ashes,
earth or other similar materials or substances, or engaged in the moving,
rolling, compacting, scraping, dragging or other disturbance of soil and the
like, shall make adequate provision as often as is required to arrest and
prevent such dust through the use of salts, oil, chemicals and other materials
used and recommended for retarding or eliminating such dust, subject to the
supervision and approval of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 97.22) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.28 SCAFFOLDING, LADDERS AND THE LIKE.
   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person:
   (A)   To erect or use, or to cause or permit to be erected or used, any
insecure or unsafe scaffold or ladder whereby the safety of persons working
thereon or passing thereunder may in any way be endangered; and
   (B)   To place or leave, or to cause or permit it to be placed or left, any
tools or articles on any such scaffold or ladder in such manner that the same
may fall into any street, sidewalks or other public way, whereby the safety of
persons passing thereunder may in any way be endangered.
(Prior Code, § 97.23) Penalty, see §
97.99
ABATEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 97.40 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any health or building official or inspector, or any police
or fire officer, determines that a nuisance exists on any private property or
premises, the proper village official shall cause a written notice to be served
personally upon the owner or, if the owner cannot be found, upon the occupant
or person in control of the property or premises who is causing permitting or
maintaining such nuisance, and shall cause a copy of said notice to be
conspicuously posted within or upon such property or premises.
   (B)   Such notice shall fairly appraise such person of the nature of the
nuisance, his or her duty to abate or remove the nuisance within the time
provided therein, the penalty for failure to abate the same, and shall state
that, if the nuisance is abated by the village, liability for necessary
expenses so incurred shall accrue as provided for in §
97.45 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.35)
§ 97.41 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE; DUTY TO ABATE; TIME LIMITS.
   It is hereby declared the duty of any person determined to have created,
caused, erected, maintained or permitted a nuisance to exist within the village
to discontinue and abate such nuisance within 48 hours, or such other time
period as may be specified therein, from the time he or she receives written
notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 97.36)
§ 97.42 FAILURE TO ABATE; SEPARATE AND RECURRING OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to
neglect, refuse or otherwise fail to remove or abate any nuisance after
expiration of the 48 hours or other specified time period provided by notice
thereof; and each 24 hours, or fraction thereof, during which such nuisance
continues or exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 97.37) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.43 ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE.
   Whenever any nuisance is not abated by the owner, lessee or person in
control of premises or property affected within the time provided by notice,
the proper village officer shall cause the abatement or removal of such
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 97.38)
§ 97.44 SUMMARY ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE WHEN EMERGENCY OR ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever any nuisance constitutes or is deemed to be an imminent or
immediate danger to public health or safety, or exists on public property, the
proper village officer shall cause such nuisance to be summarily and
immediately abated and removed, regardless of any 48-hour or other time period
specified by notice to the person response therefor.
   (B)   However, in a situation where a nuisance constitutes or is deemed to
be an imminent or immediate danger to public health or safety, such officer
shall have first applied for and obtained the written permission of the
President for such summary abatement.
(Prior Code, § 97.39)
§ 97.45 COSTS OF ABATEMENT; DEBT OF OWNER.
   (A)   Any costs or expenses of abatement reasonably incurred by the village
pursuant to the provisions of §§
97.43 and
97.44 of this chapter shall be deemed a debt to the village by the owner,
lessee or person in control of premises upon which such nuisance existed;
provided that, where specifically provided in this code or by statute, such
costs and expenses shall become a lien upon the real estate affected, superior
to all other liens and encumbrances, except tax liens.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to enforce by civil
action, any and all such debts or liens as provided for in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 97.40)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 98: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
98.001   Supervision by Superintendent of Public Works
   
98.002   Specifications for streets and sidewalks
   
98.003   Repair of streets, sidewalks and the like
   
98.004   Defects
   
98.005   Defective or dangerous sidewalks
   
98.006   Sidewalks to be kept free of snow and ice
   
98.007   Alleys and gutters to be cleaned
   
98.008   Cellar doors, openings and the like in sidewalks
   
98.009   Barricades
Prohibited Acts
   
98.020   Injury to new pavements
   
98.021   Obstructions
   
98.022   Disturbing barricades
   
98.023   Display or sale of goods on public property
   
98.024   Deposit of materials on public property
   
98.025   Obstruction of drains prohibited
   
98.026   Erection or maintenance of poles or wires
   
98.027   Erection or maintenance of gas pump
   
98.028   Playing games on streets or sidewalks
   
98.029   Barbed wire fences
   
98.030   Mailboxes and newspaper receptacles
   
98.031   Alteration of right-of-way
Construction of Utility Facilities in the Rights-of-Way
   
98.045   Adoption, purpose and scope
   
98.046   Definitions
   
98.047   Annual registration required
   
98.048   Permit required; applications and fees
   
98.049   Action on permit applications
   
98.050   Effect of permit
   
98.051   Revised permit drawings
   
98.052   Insurance
   
98.053   Indemnification
   
98.054   Security
   
98.055   Permit suspension and revocation
   
98.056   Change of ownership, identity or legal status
   
98.057   General construction standards
   
98.058   Traffic control
   
98.059   Location of facilities
   
98.060   Construction methods and materials
   
98.061   Vegetation control
   
98.062   Removal, relocation or modification
   
98.063   Clean-up and restoration
   
98.064   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
98.065   Variances
   
98.066   Violation
   
98.067   Enforcement
Driveways
   
98.080   Permit required
   
98.081   Fee
   
98.082   Grade surface
   
98.083   Construction standards
   
98.084   Repair
 
   
98.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.001 SUPERVISION BY SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways in the village
shall be under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works. The
Superintendent of Public Works shall have supervision over all work thereon,
and the cleaning thereof, and shall be charged with the enforcement of all
provisions relating to such public places.
(Prior Code, § 98.01)
§ 98.002 SPECIFICATIONS FOR STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   All streets and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformity with
specifications and grades laid down or approved from time to time by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 98.02)
§ 98.003 REPAIR OF STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND THE LIKE.
   All public streets, alleys and sidewalk pavement shall be in good repair.
Such repair work, whether done by the village or by the abutting owner, shall
be under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 98.03)
§ 98.004 DEFECTS.
   It shall be the duty of every village officer or employee becoming cognizant
of any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof, to
report the same to the Superintendent of Public Works as soon as possible.
(Prior Code, § 98.04)
§ 98.005 DEFECTIVE OR DANGEROUS SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   When conditions constitutes a nuisance. Every sidewalk within the
village which shall, from breakage therein, natural wear or age, become so worn
or out of repair as to endanger the safety of persons passing over the same is
hereby declared to be a nuisance; and any person who shall hereafter suffer or
permit such nuisance to exist in front of or adjoining premises owned, occupied
or controlled by him or her shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Abatement.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of any owner, occupant or person in control of
any lot or premises abutting upon or adjacent to any sidewalk wherein exist any
holes, loose planks or other defects, or when the same is deemed to be a
nuisance, to repair such defects and abate such nuisance without delay.
      (2)   Whenever any owner, is in default of the duty imposed by division
(A) above, it shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Public Works to repair
such devices or abate such nuisance; and the Board of Trustees may, by
ordinance, provide for pavement of the whole or any part thereof, and defray
the cost thereof by special taxation of the lots or parcels of land adjoining
such sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 98.05) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.006 SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT FREE OF SNOW AND ICE.
   (A)   Every owner or occupant of any dwelling house or other building, or
proprietor or lessee of any enclosed lot or premises, and every person having
the charge or control of any church, hall or public building within the village
shall, during the winter season whenever there is a fall of snow, and by 10:00
a.m. on every morning thereafter, clear the sidewalks in front of or adjoining
such house, building or premises from snow and ice and keep the same
conveniently free therefrom. In case the snow and ice are so congealed is not
to be removed without difficulty or injury to the pavement, such person shall
strew the same with ashes, sand, salt or sawdust; and shall, in addition, at
all times keep such sidewalks clear and free from dirt, filth, weeds or other
obstructions so as to allow pedestrians the safe and unobstructed use of the
same; and every owner, occupant or other person aforesaid who shall permit or
allow such sidewalks to be or remain covered with snow or other obstructions,
contrary to the provisions of this section, shall be deemed gully of
maintaining a nuisance.
   (B)   However, no person shall be obliged to clear any such sidewalk on
Sunday or during the continuance of any snow storm.
(Prior Code, § 98.06) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.007 ALLEYS AND GUTTERS TO BE CLEANED.
   It shall be the duty of every person owning, occupying or in control of any
lot or parcel of land adjoining any public or private alley within the village
to keep the same cleaned and in an unoffensive condition, and also to keep the
gutter in front of such premises free from filth or other offensive matter that
may prevent the free flow of water therein.
(Prior Code, § 98.07) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.008 CELLAR DOORS, OPENINGS AND THE LIKE IN SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Every cellar door, basement entrance or other like aperture or opening
over any vault or cistern or coalholes, and every well, ditch or other like pit
or hole on or adjoining any sidewalk within the village shall be covered with a
substantial grate or plate, and the construction of all such vaults and
coalholes under the public ways shall be subject to the direction and
supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave open or permit to be left
open any such grate or plate over any cellar, vault and the like, without
securing or protecting the same, so as to endanger the safety of persons or
animals passing thereupon.
   (C)   (1)   Such grates or plates as provided for in division (A) above must
be made of steel or iron having a rough surface and rabbeted into or made flush
with the sidewalk. No portion or feature of such cover shall project above or
form a depression below the finished surface of the sidewalk in which such
cover is placed. Such cover shall be capable of supporting a load of not less
than 300 pounds per square foot of area.
      (2)   No sidewalk to accommodate cellars, vaults beneath shall be
constructed without a permit therefor issued by the Board of Trustees, and all
such work shall be performed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of
Public Works and the Village Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 98.08) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.009 BARRICADES.
   Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk or other
public place or making any excavation in any such place shall maintain suitable
barricades to prevent injury to any person or vehicle by reason of the work;
such barricades shall be protected by a light at night time.
(Prior Code, § 98.09) Penalty, see §
98.999
PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 98.020 INJURY TO NEW PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon, or
injure any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by
a warning sign or barricade or to knowingly injure any soft newly made
pavement.
(Prior Code, § 98.20) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.021 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create or maintain any
obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way, except as may
be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 98.21) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.022 DISTURBING BARRICADES.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere with any barricade or lights
lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement or excavation or opening in
any public street, alley or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 98.22) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.023 DISPLAY OR SALE OF GOODS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any street, sidewalk or other
public place as space for the display or sale of goods or merchandise or to
write or make any signs or advertisements on any such pavements.
(Prior Code, § 98.23) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.024 DEPOSIT OF MATERIALS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   On streets. It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street or alley any
material which may be harmful to the pavement thereon or any waste material, or
any glass or other articles which may do injury to any person, animal or
property.
   (B)   On sidewalks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material which might
cause injury to persons, animals or property.
      (2)   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided that, the useable width of the walk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet at that point; and, provided that, no
such article shall remain on such walk for more than one half-hour.
      (3)   Any such article shall be guarded by lights if the same is upon any
sidewalk after night time.
(Prior Code, § 98.24) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.025 OBSTRUCTION OF DRAINS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 98.25) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.026 ERECTION OR MAINTENANCE OF POLES OR WIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any poles or on or over any public
street, alley or other public way without having first secured permission from
the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 98.26) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.027 ERECTION OR MAINTENANCE OF GAS PUMP.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any pump or tank in any public
street, alley or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 98.27) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.028 PLAYING GAMES ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful to play any games upon any street, alley or sidewalk,
where such games cause unnecessary noise or interfere with traffic or
pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 98.28) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.029 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or
part of barbed wire, or with any similar material designed to cause injury to
persons, or any wire charged with electric current, anywhere within three feet
of any public place, street, sidewalk, alley, park or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 98.29) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.030 MAILBOXES AND NEWSPAPER RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLUSTER BOX. Includes a grouping of mailboxes commonly described as
CLUSTER BOXES, gang boxes, data distribution boxes or any other placement of
mailboxes at a single location in groups of three or more.
      MAILBOX. Any receptacle erected on private or village property used for
the delivery of U.S. Postal Service mail.
      NEWSPAPER RECEPTACLE. Any box tube, or other receptacle used for the
purpose of receiving newspapers, advertising publications or other forms of
printed matter.
      NUISANCE. The term and the penalties prescribed therefore are as set
forth in
Chapter 97.
   (B)   Single mailboxes. Single mailboxes may be placed, installed or
maintained on private property only by the owner or tenant thereof, or upon
village property only by the owner or tenant of contiguous property, provided
that no other mailbox has been placed, installed or maintained upon such
property by the owner or tenant. No person shall place, install or maintain a
mailbox on property owned by another or on property not contiguous to property
owned by him or her or on which he or she is a tenant.
   (C)   Multiple mailboxes. It shall be unlawful to place, install or maintain
more than a single mailbox on private property zoned “Residential R-1", or more
than two mailboxes on private property zoned "Residential R-2". The same
prohibition shall apply to village property contiguous thereto.
   (D)   Cluster boxes on village property. No cluster box shall be placed,
installed or maintained on village property.
   (E)   Cluster boxes on private property. No cluster box shall be placed,
installed or maintained on private property unless the owner thereof shall have
first obtained a special use permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals for such
purpose.
   (F)   Newspaper receptacles. It shall be unlawful to place, install or
maintain, either as a part of any mailbox or as a separate unit, any newspaper
receptacle upon any village or private property within ten feet of any street
or public right-of-way.
   (G)   Obstruction of streets and sidewalks. It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, install or maintain a mailbox or newspaper receptacle which
causes damage to or obstructs any street or sidewalk.
   (H)   Failure to remove: separate and recurring offense. It shall be
unlawful and a violation of this section for any person to neglect, refuse or
otherwise fail to remove any such mailbox which has been placed, installed or
maintained in violation of this section. Each day such violation continues or
is allowed to exist after notice thereof, shall be deemed a new and separate
offense.
   (I)   Violation and penalty. A violation of the provisions contained in this
section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be enforceable as set forth in
Chapter 97.
(Prior Code, § 98.30) (Ord. 503, passed 5-13-1974; Ord. 98-101, passed 1-5-
1998)
§ 98.031 ALTERATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person (other than the appropriate governmental
entity) to construct any improvements or otherwise alter any public right-of-
way within the village.
(Ord. 22-113, passed 8-15-2022) Penalty, see §
98.999
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 98.045 ADOPTION, PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subhapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage and visual qualities of the village
rights-of-way and the village as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this subchapter, the village intends to exercise
its authority over the rights-of-way in the village and, in particular, the use
of the public ways and property by utilities by establishing uniform standards
to address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without
limitation, to:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village’s utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the village’s residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this subchapter. This subchapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-
way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this subchapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses or similar agreements. The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this subchapter.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses or similar agreements.
      (1)   In the event that a utility other than a telecommunications
provider has a franchise, license or similar agreement with the village, such
franchise, license or similar agreement shall govern and control during the
term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   In the event of any conflict with, or inconsistency between, the
provisions of this subchapter and the provisions of any franchise, license or
similar agreement between the village and any telecommunications provider, the
provisions of such franchise, license or similar agreement shall govern and
control during the term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or extension
thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts with other chapters. This subchapter supersedes all chapters
or parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
subchapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this subchapter
to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or
regulations.
   (H)   Sound engineering judgment. The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this subchapter and may vary the standards,
conditions and requirements expressed in this subchapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021)
§ 98.046 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term
not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92 Ill.
Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this subchapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices, such as
carrier pipes, electrical conductors and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The Municipal Code of the Village of Tremont.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Village Director of Public Works or his or her
designee.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
      (1)   Any work that obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material
adverse effect on the use of the right-of-way for its intended use.
      (2)   Such work may include, without limitation, the following:
excavating or other cutting; placement (whether temporary or permanent) of
materials, equipment, devices or structures; damage to vegetation; and
compaction or loosening of the soil and such work shall not include the parking
of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially obstruct the flow
of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The Village Engineer or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY.
      (1)   All structures, devices, objects and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within rights-of-way under this subchapter.
      (2)   For purposes of this subchapter, FACILITY shall not include any
facility owned or operated by the village.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village Director of Public Works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to
the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance
of the environment, including, but not limited to explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic,
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the Illinois Commerce Commission pursuant
to the Illinois Cable and Video Competition Law, 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   JULIE. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. The entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
98.048 and
98.049 of this subchapter.
   PRACTICABLE. Which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch-gauge (psig).
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane or coal-slurry.
   PROMPT. Which is done within a period of time specified by the village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT(S)-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway dedicated or
commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar purposes,
including utility easements, in which the village has the right and authority
to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other than those of
the village. RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any real or personal village
property that is not specifically described in the previous two sentences and
shall not include village buildings, fixtures and other structures or
improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   ROADWAY. Part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. The amount of security required pursuant to §
98.054.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities.
      (1)   PRIVATE LINE. A dedicated non-traffic sensitive service for a
single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a
communications channel, or a group of such channels, from one or more specified
locations to one or more other specified locations.
      (2)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which
computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and
protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
      (3)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications
by a telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the
service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail consumer who
originates or terminates the end-to-end communications.
      (4)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of cable
services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of
1984, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., as now or hereafter amended, or cable or
other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the
village through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission, being 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.1500 et seq., as now or
hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Means any person that installs, owns, operates
or controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Means and includes every person engaged in
making sales of telecommunications at retail, as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility, as
defined in this subchapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. The term as defined in § 21-201 (v) of the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 5/21-201(v).
   VILLAGE. The Village of Tremont.
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021)
§ 98.047 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the village shall register
on January 1 of each year with the Director of Public Works, providing the
utility’s name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility’s facilities in the right-of-
way and a 24-hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of
insurance as required in §
98.052, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021)
§ 98.048 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall construct (as defined in this subchapter) any
facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within any village
right-of-way which changes the location of the facility, adds a new facility,
disrupts the right-of-way, as defined in this subchapter, or materially
increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on, over, above,
along, under, across or within the right-of-way, without first filing an
application with the Director of Public Works and obtaining a permit from the
village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
subchapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed
in such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant
may designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility’s name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   1.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the
nature of potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction
and hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the
applicant.
            2.   The intended response shall include notification to the
village and shall promote protection of the safety and convenience of the
public. Compliance with ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans
constitutes compliance with this section unless the village finds that
additional information or assurances are needed.
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
98.052 of this subchapter;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
98.054 of this subchapter;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter. (See §
98.065); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) above, the permit application
shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific utility that
is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any “certificate of public
convenience and necessity” or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
State Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies, have
been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District and any other local or state entities with jurisdiction, have been
satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within 30 days after the
change necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this subchapter
shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of in an amount to be determined by
the Village Board. No application fee is required to be paid by any electricity
utility that is paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee
pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021)
§ 98.049 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Village review of permit applications.
      (1)   Completed permit applications, containing all required
documentation, shall be examined by the Director of Public Works within a
reasonable time after filing. If the application does not conform to the
requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, the
Director of Public Works shall reject such application in writing, stating the
reasons therefor.
      (2)   If the Director of Public Works is satisfied that the proposed work
conforms to the requirements of this subchapter and applicable ordinances,
codes, laws, rules and regulations, the Director of Public Works shall issue a
permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty
of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public
Works, that the construction proposed under the application shall be in full
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Additional village review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4, a
telecommunications retailer shall notify the village that it intends to
commence work governed by this subhapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans, specifications
and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the
facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the
village not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work requiring no
excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of work
requiring excavation. The Director of Public Works shall specify the portion of
the right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the Director of Public Works fails to provide
such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either
ten days after service of notice to the village by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or
25 days after service of notice by the telecommunications retailer in the case
of work involving excavation for new construction, the telecommunications
retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under this subchapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
98.049 the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the village an
application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) above.
   (C)   Additional village review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted 45 days after
submission to the village, unless otherwise acted upon by the village; provided
the holder has complied with applicable village codes, ordinances and
regulations.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021)
§ 98.050 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this subchapter on village rights-of-way, and
does not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge
upon the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this subchapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months, unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this subchapter prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the village with
such village representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including, without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities
in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other
utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access
and egress by adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.051 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   (A)   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in
any material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within 90 days after
the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this subchapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with §
98.065.
   (B)   If the village denies the request for a variance, then the permittee
shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the facility
so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021)
§ 98.052 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or similar
agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or constructing any facility in
the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured and naming the village, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents and employees as additional
insureds on the policies listed in divisions (A)(1)(a) and (A)(1)(b) below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
“X,” “C” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            1.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each
person;
            2.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any
one accident; and
            3.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident;
         (c)   Worker’s compensation with statutory limits; and
         (d)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
      (2)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
 
“It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by
the Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of
a written notice addressed to the Village President of such intent to cancel or
not to renew.”
 
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in
no event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) above. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under division (A) above, or the requirements of divisions (B), (C), and (D)
above. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) above,
such as evidence that the utility is a private self insurer under the Workers
Compensation Act.
   (F)   Effect of Insurance and self-insurance on utility’s liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state. All insurance
carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated “A-” or better and of a class
size “X” or higher by A.M. Best Company.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.053 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected
and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this subchapter or by a franchise, license or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility’s indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
subchapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021)
§ 98.054 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and in an
amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee’s sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
      (2)   The Security Fund shall serve as security for:
         (a)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the
requirements of this subchapter;
         (b)   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the village
occasioned by the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules,
regulations, orders, permits and other directives of the village issued
pursuant to this subchapter; and
         (c)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this subchapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this subchapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this subchapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this section shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
state at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount.
      (1)   The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Director of Public Works, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs that the village estimates are likely to be
incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration.
      (2)   Where the construction of facilities proposed under the permit will
be performed in phases in multiple locations in the village, with each phase
consisting of construction of facilities in one location or a related group of
locations, and where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior
to substantial completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the
Director of Public Works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the
permittee to post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each
phase of the construction under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for
phased construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this division (C) for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The village, upon 14 days’ advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this section, may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund; provided that the
permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the 14- day
notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this subchapter that the
village determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the
Security Fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
village that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund, the
permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in division
(C) above.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village; provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in division (C) above.
   (G)   Closing and return of Security Fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
subchapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the
permit, the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall
become the property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any
reasonable costs, loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said
revocation, provided that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage
shall be refunded to the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this subchapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021)
§ 98.055 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Village right to revoke permit. The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this subchapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Non-compliance with this subchapter;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
subchapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and
the alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee Alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such
removal to the village within ten days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
      (2)   The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this section.
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A)
above.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply.
      (1)   If the permittee fails to comply with the provisions of division
(C) above, the village or its designee may, at the option of the village:
         (a)   Correct the deficiencies;
         (b)   Upon not less than 20 days notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or
         (c)   After not less than 30 days notice to the permittee of failure
to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and property of the village.
      (2)   The permittee shall be liable in all events to the village for all
costs of removal.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.056 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP, IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the village no less
than 30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-
of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or
the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this subchapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village’s right-
of-way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021)
§ 98.057 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code § 545);
      (7)   Flagger’s Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
subchapter, the Director of Public Works shall determine, in the exercise of
sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be
final. If requested, the Director of Public Works shall state which standard or
principle will apply to the construction, maintenance or operation of a
facility in the future.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021)
§ 98.058 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The village’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
98.064, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the village.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.059 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this section.
      (1)   No Interference with village facilities. No utility facilities
shall be placed in any location if the Director of Public Works determines that
the proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
village’s utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the village’s utility facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (or 0.6 meters) behind the
face of the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (or 1.2 meters) outside
the outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (or
0.3 meters) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way
line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet ( or 2.4 meters) from and parallel to
the right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (or 1.5 meters) from the right-of-way line and any above-
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (or 0.3 meters) of the
right-of-way line, or as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities. Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
      (3)   Ninety-degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90-degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC’s
rules entitled, “Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines” (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (or 0.3 meters) of the right-
of-way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 C.F.R. § 192.707
(1989).
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding facilities. The village may restrict the location and
size of any freestanding facility located within a right-of-way. The village
may require any freestanding facility located within a right-of-way to be
screened from view.
   (F)   Facilities installed aboveground level. Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   Existing facilities. No other existing facilities in the area are
located underground;
      (2)   New installation. New underground installation is not technically
feasible; and
      (3)   Aesthetic preservation. The proposed installation will be made at a
location, and will employ suitable design and materials, to provide the
greatest protection of aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without
adversely affecting safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to,
self-supporting armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration
of conductors and cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be
used wherever practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is
strongly discouraged.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   No other means of accommodation. Facilities may be installed as
attachments to bridges or roadway structures only where the utility has
demonstrated that all other means of accommodating the facility are not
practicable. Other means shall include, but are not limited to, underground,
underwater, independent poles, cable supports and tower supports, all of which
are completely separated from the bridge or roadway structure. Facilities
transmitting commodities that are volatile, flammable, corrosive or energized,
especially those under significant pressure or potential, present high degrees
of risk, and such installations are not permitted.
      (2)   Request to accommodate. A utility shall include in its request to
accommodate a facility installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting
data demonstrating the impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or
disapproval of an application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway
structure will be based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards. The village may prohibit the installation of
facilities in particular locations in order to preserve visual quality. A
facility may be constructed only if its construction does not require extensive
removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to the right-of-way
user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it does not impair
the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.060 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be accomplished from
pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Director of Public Works
from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be excavated no
more than 48 hours in advance of boring or jacking operations and backfilled
within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits
are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by barricades. Shoring
shall be designed, erected, supported, braced and maintained so that it will
safely support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it
during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting shall not be permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings over six inches (or 0.15 meters) in diameter shall be
accomplished with an auger and following pipe, and the diameter of the auger
shall not exceed the outside diameter of the following pipe by more than one
inch (or 25 millimeters).
         (d)   Borings of six inches or less in diameter may be accomplished by
either jacking, guided with auger or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Any facility located within the drip line of any tree designated
by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored under or around the
root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of § 603 of IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.
         (a)   The length of open trench shall be kept to the practicable
minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only one-half of
any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special permission
is obtained from the Director of Public Works.
         (b)   Open trench and windrowed excavated material shall be protected
as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices. Where practicable, the excavated material shall be deposited between
the roadway and the trench as added protection. Excavated material shall not be
allowed to remain on the paved portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width
does not allow for windrowing excavated material off the paved portion of the
roadway, excavated material shall be hauled to an off-road location. The
utility shall not trench within the drip line of any tree designated by the
village to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility.
         (c)   If so ordered by the Director of Public Works, the utility, at
its expense, shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the
installed facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and
restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs and driveways to the proper grades, as
determined by the Director of Public Works.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (A)(4)
is permitted under §
98.065, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Director of Public Works.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village;
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth; and
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a JULIE
locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (or 0.3 meters) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall
be located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway.
            1.   Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed prior to
highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical joints are of
a type approved by the village.
            2.   Bell- and spigot-type pipe shall be encased regardless of
installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
            1.   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair; and
            2.   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility.
 
Type of Facility                             Minimum Cover
Electric lines                               30 inches (or 0.8 meters)
                                             
Communication, cable or video service lines  18 10 24 inches (or 0.6 meters, as
                                             determined by the village
Gas or petroleum products                    30 inches (or 0.8 meters)
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage line Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                             protection
Water line                                   Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                             protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Electric power or communications facilities within village
rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in conformity with
the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code part 305 (formerly General Order 160 of the
Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled “Rules for Construction of Electric
Power and Communications Lines,” and the National Electrical Safety Code.
         (b)   Overhead power or communication facilities shall use single pole
construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles shall be used.
Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the installation so guys
and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if there is no feasible
alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards for maximum
visibility.
         (c)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing; provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            1.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if:
               a.   The crossing is installed by the use of “moles,” “whip
augers” or other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening
for cable installation; or
               b.   The installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            2.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   All temporary service drops placed between November 1 of the
prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as snowdrops, shall be
buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting, unless otherwise
permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall bury all
temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of “moles,” “whip augers” or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, part 192 -
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 C.F.R. § 192), IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction, and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, stormwater sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.
      (6)   Ground-mounted appurtenances. Ground-mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (or 305 millimeters)
in width beyond the appurtenance in all directions.
         (a)   The vegetation-free area may be provided by an extension of the
mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or similar material approved by the
Director of Public Works.
         (b)   With the approval of the Director of Public Works, shrubbery
surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation-free area. The
housing for ground-mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to
blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Director of Public
Works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross-
arms or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to
and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be
obtained from the village.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions. Construction operations on rights-of-way
may, at the discretion of the village, be required to be discontinued when such
operations would create hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and
welfare. Such operations may also be required to be discontinued or restricted
when conditions are such that construction would result in extensive damage to
the right-of-way or other property. These restrictions may be waived by the
Director of Public Works when emergency work is required to restore vital
utility services.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with the
Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.)
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021)
§ 98.061 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities; compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable state laws and
regulations, and, additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities; tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable state laws and regulations specifically
governing same shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of a permit, in addition to
any other permit required under this subchapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use. Except as provided in the following sentence, no utility
shall spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or
vegetation in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth,
insects or disease. Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Director of Public Works that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.062 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATION.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the village, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, and temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance or installation
of any village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or
upon, the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this subchapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within 90
days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the Director of Public Works
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not direct the utility
that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to
the village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the
alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility
or person.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021) §
98.999
§ 98.063 CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within 10 days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration
of entrances and side roads.
   (B)   Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using materials and
methods approved by the Director of Public Works. Such cleanup and repair may
be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding or any
other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition substantially
equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the project. The
time period provided in this section may be extended by the Director of Public
Works for good cause shown.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.064 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility’s expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Director of Public Works or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.065 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this subchapter must do so in writing to the Director of
Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this subchapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The Director of Public Works shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this subchapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The Director of Public Works may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Director of Public Works may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this subchapter but which carry out the
purposes of this subchapter.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Director
of Public Works under the provisions of this subchapter shall have the right to
appeal to the Village Board, or such other board or commission as it may
designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
Village Clerk within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The Village Board shall commence its consideration
of the appeal at the Village Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting occurring
at least seven days after the filing of the appeal. The Village Board shall
timely decide the appeal.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021)
§ 98.066 VIOLATION.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code of ordinances. There may be times when
the village will incur delay or other costs, including third-party claims,
because the utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and
this subchapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost
of undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
village’s costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other
administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit related
cost apportionment of the village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that
does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.067 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 21-120, passed - -2021)
DRIVEWAYS
§ 98.080 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles or animals across
any sidewalk in the village without obtaining a permit therefor.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and shall be
accompanied by the fee required.
   (C)   No permit for the construction of a driveway for commercial use, or
the habitual use of any other than the owner or occupant of the premises
served, shall be issued, except upon the order of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 98.60) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.081 FEE.
   The fee for all such construction permits shall be in an amount shown on the
fee schedule of the village.
(Prior Code, § 98.61)
§ 98.082 GRADE SURFACE.
   (A)   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a steep,
sharp depression or other obstruction, in the sidewalk.
   (B)   The grade shall be as nearly as possible the same as that of the
adjoining sidewalk.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway where
the same crosses the sidewalk constructed of such material as to render it
slippery or hazardous for pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion
vary from the grade of the sidewalk, or be other than level.
(Prior Code, § 98.62) Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.083 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)    All driveways and parking areas leading from the street to the
garages or parking areas and all parking areas shall be provided with asphaltic
or concrete surfacing in accordance with specifications approved by the Village
Engineer.
   (B)   Where village curbs are removed for purposes of making driveway
entrance, the curb and gutter must be removed as far away from the driveway
entrance as the nearest contraction or expansion joint, or a sawed joint, and
then replaced so as to ensure a smoothly joining entrance.
   (C)   The radius of the return of the driveway must be five feet. No village
curb can be removed without first obtaining a curb removal permit from the
Superintendent of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 98.63) (Ord. 24-117, passed 9-16-2024)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.084 REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of every person maintaining a driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free from obstruction and
openings.
(Prior Code, § 98.64)
§ 98.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 99: TREES AND SHRUBBERY; WEEDS
Section
Trees and Shrubbery
   
99.01   Planting of trees or bush
   
99.02   Attaching advertisements on trees prohibited
   
99.03   Dangerous trees
   
99.04   Attaching wires or ropes to trees
   
99.05   Excavations
Weeds
   
99.20   Definitions
   
99.21   Weeds declared nuisance
   
99.22   Notice to abate nuisance on lots with occupied buildings or structures
   
99.23   Notice to abate nuisance on vacant lots and on lots with vacant
structures
   
99.24   Weed cutting by village
   
99.25   Weed lien; personal judgment
   
99.26   Violations
 
   
99.99   Penalty
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
§ 99.01 PLANTING OF TREES OR BUSH.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public place, street
or parkway within the village, including those portions of streets or roadways
not used for traffic purposes and lying between the adjacent property line and
the curb line.
(Prior Code, § 99.01) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.02 ATTACHING ADVERTISEMENTS ON TREES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement notice to any tree or
shrub now growing in any such public place, street or parkway.
(Prior Code, § 99.02) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.03 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the village in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or
travel shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the
premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which
such tree grows or stands.
   (C)   The Superintendent of Public Works may trim any such tree or shrub or
remove any such tree or branch thereof so that the obstruction or danger to
traffic or passage shall be done away with.
(Prior Code, § 99.03) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.04 ATTACHING WIRES OR ROPES TO TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or rope to any tree or shrub
in any public street, parkway or other public place without the permission of
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Any person who maintains poles and wires in the streets, alleys or
other public places shall, in the absence of provision in the franchise
concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles free from and away from any
trees and shrubs in such places so far as may be possible, and shall keep all
such trees and shrubs near such wires and poles properly trimmed, subject to
the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works, so that no injury shall
be done either to the poles or wires or to the shrubs and trees by their
contact.
(Prior Code, § 99.04) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.05 EXCAVATIONS.
   In making excavations in streets or other public places, proper care shall
be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub, wherever possible.
(Prior Code, § 99.05) Penalty, see §
99.99
WEEDS
§ 99.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person, firm, corporation, association or organization that acts
for, or in place of, another person or authority for an owner or his or her
representative or employee. AGENT shall also mean any person, firm, corporation
or organization that has the immediate responsibility for the maintenance of
property, but does not own the property.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A residence, other than a townhouse, designed for
and/or occupied by two or more families, each living independently of each
other in a separate dwelling unit.
   NUISANCE. Any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is
detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which such premises are located.
   OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Has legal or equitable title to any premises, dwelling, dwelling
unit or building (residential or non-residential) with or without accompanying
actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Has charge, care or control of any premises, dwelling, dwelling
unit or business building as agent of the owner or as executor, administrator,
trustee or guardian of the estate of the beneficial owner.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure
designated or used either wholly or in part for private residential or
commercial purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant, and any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps,
vestibule or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building
or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys and other
public ways and any and all public squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
   TOWNHOUSE. A group or row of two or more attached single-family dwelling
units extending from the basement to the roof, where each dwelling unit is
under separate ownership.
   WEEDS. All grasses, annual plants and vegetation other than trees or shrubs
which exceed a height or length of eight inches. However, the term WEEDS shall
not include cultivated flowers and gardens.
(Prior Code, § 99.20)
§ 99.21 WEEDS DECLARED NUISANCE.
   All weeds, as defined herein, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 99.21) (Ord. 89-103, passed 7-24-1989) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.22 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE ON LOTS WITH OCCUPIED BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Department of Code Enforcement and Police
Department to enforce the provisions of this chapter, and to notify persons
violating the same to cut or destroy the weeds located on lots with occupied
buildings or structures located thereon within five days from the date of the
service of the notice and, upon failure of the owner, tenant or occupant to
comply with the notice, the proper officials shall proceed to cut or destroy
the weeds.
   (B)   Notice shall be given by means of personal service of a copy of the
complaint or by certified or registered mail of a copy of the complaint which
is addressed to the residence or usual place of business of the owner or person
in control of the property. Personal service shall be made by a village
employee or any person authorized by law to make personal service.
(Prior Code, § 99.22) (Ord. 89-103, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 99.23 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE ON VACANT LOTS AND ON LOTS WITH VACANT
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The Director of Code Enforcement shall cause to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the village during the months of May
and August in each year hereafter, once a week for two consecutive weeks, a
notice notifying all owners, occupants and other persons interested in any
tract or tracts of real estate located in the village whereupon no structures
are located or structures which are vacant permitting weeds to grow on any such
tract taller than ten inches contrary to the ordinances of the village. The
notice shall further inform such persons that should the weeds grow to more
than ten inches during the year, then the village may cut or destroy same
without further notice and the cost to the village shall be paid by the owners,
occupants or other persons interested in the tract.
   (B)   The notice required by this section shall be a display advertisement
and not a classified advertisement. It shall be at least two columns wide by
four inches in length.
(Prior Code, § 99.23) (Ord. 89-103, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 99.24 WEED CUTTING BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   Upon failure of the owner, tenant, occupant or other interested person
of lots with occupied buildings or structures to comply with the notice to cut
or destroy the weeds within five days from the date of the service of the
notice provided for in this code, or in the case of a tract of real estate
without any structures located thereon or upon which there are vacant
structures, such persons have failed to comply with the published notice
provided for in the code, the village may proceed to have the weeds cut or
destroyed.
   (B)   If the notice provided for is returned to the U.S. Post Office because
of its inability to make delivery thereof, the responsible village officials
are hereby authorized and empowered to cut or destroy such weeds.
(Prior Code, § 99.24) (Ord. 89-103, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 99.25 WEED LIEN; PERSONAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   The cost and expense of cutting or destroying the weeds on a separate
piece or parcel of ground shall be recoverable from the owner or owners of the
real estate and is a lien thereon, which lien shall be superior to all prior
existing liens and encumbrances, except taxes. However, within 90 days after
completion of the weed cutting or destroying, the corporation counsel shall
file a notice of lien for the cost and expense incurred by the village in the
office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county. Upon payment of said cost of
cutting or destroying the weeds, the lien shall be released by the corporation
counsel.
   (B)   The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in case of
mortgages or mechanics liens. Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced by
the corporation counsel within three years after the date of filing notice of
lien.
   (C)   If payment of the village’s costs of cutting or destroying the weeds
is not paid to the village within 15 days of the filing of the notice of lien,
the corporation counsel may commence proceedings in the Circuit Court seeking a
personal judgment from the owner of the subject property in the amount of the
costs. The action authorized by this division (C) shall be in addition to, and
without waiver of, any other remedies.
(Prior Code, § 99.25) (Ord. 89-103, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 99.26 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, leasing, occupying or
controlling any plot of ground in the village to permit the growth of weeds
thereon.
   (B)   No person shall permit the growth of weeds in the sidewalk and village
right-of-way in front of and/or surrounding his or her premises.
   (C)   It shall further be unlawful for any owner, person, association, firm
or organization owning or occupying real property bordering on any street,
alley, roadway, parkway or waterway in the village to permit the growth of
weeds on any such street, alley or way.
(Prior Code, § 99.98) (Ord. 89-103, passed 7-24-1989) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 100: GARBAGE COLLECTION
Section
   
100.01   System for collection and disposal of residential waste established
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   Prohibited acts
§ 100.01 SYSTEM FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF RESIDENTIAL WASTE ESTABLISHED.
   The sole and exclusive method for the collection and disposal of residential
waste from single family dwellings located within the village shall be the
collection and disposal of residential waste by a contractor selected by the
village to collect and dispose of residential waste from all single family
dwellings located within the village. The contractor shall have the authority
to provide reasonable rules and regulations for the collection of residential
waste. No person or entity shall collect residential waste from single family
dwellings located within the village unless pursuant to a contract with the
village, and no resident of the village shall engage any person or entity for
the collection of residential waste from any single family dwelling except a
contractor pursuant to a contract with the village. Each owner and/or occupant
of a single family dwelling within the village shall engage the contractor
selected by the village to collect and dispose of residential waste from such
single family dwelling.
(Ord. 23-106, passed 3-23-2023)
§ 100.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Waste resulting from the handling, processing, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food, and wastes from the handling, processing, storage and
sale of produce.
   RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Garbage and the casual or occasional refuse, rubbish or
debris which may be generated from a private household.
   SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING. Single family homes and duplexes.
(Ord. 23-106, passed 3-23-2023)
§ 100.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, and shall constitute a nuisance, for any person
to burn or bury residential waste within the village, to permit residential
waste to accumulate in any manner so as to create a nuisance and to attract
flies, vermin or rats, or to permit any residential waste to accumulate for
more than seven days.   
   (B)   No residential waste of any kind shall be deposited in any street,
alley or public way, excepting residential waste placed for pickup by the
contractor selected by the village for the collection and disposal of garbage,
which shall be wrapped in tightly closed and tied plastic bags or placed in a
toter and maintained in good order and in an inconspicuous place so as not to
create a nuisance to neighbors.   
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly deposit residential
waste on his or her own property or on the property of another without consent
of the owner, or to deposit residential waste on the property of a public
entity without the consent of the public entity; for purposes of this
subsection, "property" shall include both real and personal property.   
   (D)   No residential waste of any kind shall be deposited in such a manner
so that it can be blown or scattered by the wind.
   (E)   Whenever any residential waste has been deposited in violation of any
ordinance prohibiting said deposit, the person whose name appears as an
addressee on said waste shall be prima facie responsible for such violation and
subject to the penalty therefor.
(Ord. 23-106, passed 3-23-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSE REGULATIONS
      
111.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
      
112.   ADVERTISING
      
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
114.   AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
      
115.   JUNK DEALERS
      
116.   PARKING LOTS; GARAGES
      
117.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
118.   SIDEWALK SALES
      
119.   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
      
120.   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      121.   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSE REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Application
   
110.02   Forms
   
110.03   Signatures
   
110.04   Investigations
   
110.05   Fees
   
110.06   Termination of licenses
   
110.07   Building and premises
   
110.08   Transference of license; change of location
   
110.09   Frontage consents
   
110.10   Nuisances
   
110.11   Inspections
   
110.12   Revocation
   
110.13   Notice of revocation; request for hearing; suspension or revocation
   
110.14   Posting of license
§ 110.01 APPLICATION.
   Applications for all licenses and permits required by provision of this code
of ordinances shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk in the absence of
provision to the contrary. Each application shall state the name of the
applicant, the permit or license desired, the location to be used, if any, the
time covered and the fee to be paid, and each application shall contain such
additional information as may be needed for the proper guidance of the village
officials in the issuing of the permit or license applied for.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)
§ 110.02 FORMS.
   Forms for all licenses and permits and applications therefor shall be
prepared and kept on file by the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 110.02)
§ 110.03 SIGNATURES.
   Each license or permit issued shall bear the signature of the President and
the Clerk of the village in the absence of any provision to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 110.03)
§ 110.04 INVESTIGATIONS.
   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where the
provision of this code of ordinances necessitates an inspection or
investigation before the issuance of such permit or license, the Village Clerk
shall refer such application to the proper officer for making such
investigation within 48 hours of the time of such receipt. The officer charged
with the duty of making the investigation or inspection shall make a report
thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days after receiving the
application or a copy thereof.
(Prior Code, § 110.04)
§ 110.05 FEES.
   (A)   In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the Village Clerk.
   (B)   When a business is commenced after the expiration of a part of the
license year, an annual license for the balance of the year will be issued for
a proportionate part of the annual fee.
(Prior Code, § 110.05)
§ 110.06 TERMINATION OF LICENSES.
   All annual licenses and permits shall terminate on the last day of the
fiscal year of the village in which they are issued, where no provision to the
contrary is made. Each daily license shall terminate at 12:00 a.m. (midnight)
of the day for which the license or permit is granted.
(Prior Code, § 110.06)
§ 110.07 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No licenses shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
for anything, or act, if the premises and building to be used for the purpose
do not fully comply with the requirements of the village. No such license or
permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any
act which would involve a violation of the zoning provisions of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 110.07)
§ 110.08 TRANSFERENCE OF LICENSE; CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   (A)   Licenses issued may be transferred by the original licensee; provided
that, written notice thereof is given to the Village Clerk within ten days
before the transfer is made, but no more than one transfer of any license shall
be made within the license year; provided that, it shall be unlawful to
transfer any peddler’s or itinerant merchant’s license or permit, and any
attempted transfer of such a license or permit shall have no effect.
   (B)   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any
permitted act, may be changed provided ten days’ notice in writing thereof is
given to the Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided
that, the building, zoning and frontage consent requirements of the provisions
of this code of ordinances are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 110.08)
§ 110.09 FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the consent of adjoining or neighboring owners is required as
a prerequisite of the conduct of any business or occupation, or the location of
any establishment, such consents must be obtained by securing the necessary
signatures to a written consent petition. Such petition shall be filed with the
Village Clerk when signed.
   (B)   Consents once given and filed shall not be renewed for the continuous
conduct of the same business, whether by the same proprietor or not.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to forge any name to such a petition or to
falsely represent that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if
such is not the fact.
   (D)   Each consent when filed shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the
person securing the signatures that each signature appearing thereon was
properly secured and written on and that the petition contains the necessary
number of signatures required by ordinance.
   (E)   The frontage consent requirements contained in this code of ordinances
shall not be construed as amending or changing any zoning provision of the
village; and no such provision shall be construed as permitting the erection of
a structure or building, or the conduct of a business, or the commission of any
act in any location where such structure, building, business or act is or are
prohibited by any zoning provision of the village.
(Prior Code, § 110.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.10 NUISANCES.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance in fact.
(Prior Code, § 110.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.11 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any
ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of
the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making such inspection at any reasonable time that
admission is requested, any authorized officer or employee of the village.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the President
of the Board may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed
business in the village who refuses to permit any such officer or employee, who
is authorized to make such inspection or who interferes with such officer or
employee while in the performance of his or her duty in making such inspection;
provided that, no license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand
is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of
the village, stating that such inspection is desired and the time it is sought
to make the inspection.
(Prior Code, § 110.11)
§ 110.12 REVOCATION.
   Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked by the President at
any time during the life of such license or permit for any violation by the
licensee or permittee of the provisions relating to the license or permit, the
subject matter of the license or permit or to the premises occupied; such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed.
(Prior Code, § 110.12)
§ 110.13 NOTICE OF REVOCATION; REQUEST FOR HEARING; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Unless any provision of this code of ordinances provides to the
contrary, no revocation or suspension of any license or permit issued hereunder
shall be deemed effective until notice thereof has been served personally upon
or mailed to the named licensee or permittee at the address specified in the
application for the license or permit.
   (B)   If, within five days of the date of notice of the revocation or
suspension of any license or permit, the named licensee or permittee submits to
the Village Clerk in writing a request for a hearing concerning such revocation
or suspension, the revocation or suspension shall be suspended until such time
as the Board of Trustees shall grant the licensee or permittee a special
hearing.
   (C)   If the Board of Trustees, after such hearing, affirms the revocation
or suspension of the license or permit, the revocation or suspension shall
become immediately effective. If the Board of Trustees, by a majority vote,
overrules the revocation or suspension, the revocation or suspension shall be
deemed null and void.
(Prior Code, § 110.13)
§ 110.14 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the premises
used for such business at all times.
(Prior Code, § 110.14)
CHAPTER 111: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Short title
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Adult Use Commissioner and Adult Use Commission
   
111.04   Adult establishment licenses generally
   
111.05   Form and submission of license application
   
111.06   Processing of license application
   
111.07   Standards for issuance or denial of license
   
111.08   Inspections by the village
   
111.09   Change in information
   
111.10   Regulations applicable to all adult entertainment establishments
   
111.11   Special regulations for adult booths
   
111.12   Special regulations for adult cabarets
   
111.13   Special regulations for adult stores
   
111.14   Special regulations for adult theaters
   
111.15   Licensee responsibility for employees
   
111.16   License revocation or suspension
   
111.17   Administrative record
   
111.18   Record keeping by licensee
   
111.19   Nuisance declared
   
111.20   Computation of time
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, and may be referred to as the “Tremont Adult
Use Licensing Ordinance.”
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOTH. Any area of an adult entertainment establishment set off from
the remainder of such establishment by one or more walls, other dividers or
partitions and used to show, play or otherwise demonstrate any adult materials
or to view any live performance that is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Any of the following commercial establishments, as
defined herein:
      (1)   ADULT CABARET. Any commercial establishment that as a substantial
or significant portion of its business features or provides any of the
following:
         (a)   Persons who appear semi-nude;
         (b)   Live performances that are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities; or
         (c)   Films, motion pictures video or audio cassettes, slides,
computer displays or other visual representations or recordings of any kind
that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure,
depiction or description of specified anatomical areas, or the conduct or
simulation of specified sexual activities.
      (2)   ADULT STORE. Any commercial establishment that:
         (a)   Contains one or more adult booths;
         (b)   As a substantial or significant portion of its business, offers
for sale, rental or viewing of any adult materials; or
         (c)   Has a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of adult
materials.
      (3)   ADULT THEATER. Any commercial establishment that as a substantial
or significant portion of its business features or provides:
         (a)   Films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides or
other visual representations or recordings that are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction or description of
specified anatomical areas, or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual
activities; or
         (b)   Live performances that are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT EMPLOYEE. Any individual, including an entertainer, who
works in or at, or renders any services directly related to the operation of,
an adult entertainment establishment; provided, however, that this definition
shall not include persons delivering goods, materials (other than adult
materials), food and beverages or performing maintenance or repairs to the
licensed premises.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE. A license issued for an adult entertainment
establishment pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT PATRON. Any individual, other than an adult
establishment employee, present in or at any adult entertainment establishment
at any time when such adult entertainment establishment is open for business;
provided, however, that this definition shall not include persons delivering
goods, materials (other than adult materials), food and beverages or performing
maintenance or repairs to the licensed premises.
   ADULT MATERIAL.
      (1)   Any of the following, whether new or used:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter or
digitally-stored materials of any kind that are distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction or description of specified
anatomical areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
         (b)   Films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides,
computer displays or other visual representations or recordings of any kind
that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure,
depiction or description of specified anatomical areas or the conduct or
simulation of specified sexual activities.
      (2)   Instruments, novelties, devices or paraphernalia that are designed
for use in connection with specified sexual activities, or that depict or
describe specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE COMMISSION. A commission appointed by the adult use commissioner
pursuant to §
111.03.
   ADULT USE COMMISSIONER. The President of the Village of Tremont, pursuant to
§
111.03.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Tremont.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where admission, services, performances
or products are provided for or upon payment of any form of consideration.
   DAYS. Calendar days, unless otherwise specifically set forth in this
chapter.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. To be on or after July 2, 2001.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The place or location described in an adult establishment
license where an adult entertainment establishment is authorized to operate. No
sidewalks, streets, parking areas, public rights-of-way or grounds adjacent to
any such place or location shall be included with the licensed premises.
   LICENSEE. Any person or entity that has been issued an adult establishment
license pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   NUDE OR STATE OF NUDITY. A state of dress or undress that exposes to view:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, anus or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areolae, but hot including any portion of the cleavage of the female breast
exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing
apparel, provided the areolae is not exposed; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered, or any device or covering that, when worn,
simulates human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   REVIEWING DEPARTMENTS. Those village departments or persons on the village
staff or persons retained by the village, designated by the Village President
from time to time to review applications submitted pursuant to this chapter.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress or undress in which clothing covers no more than
the genitals, pubic region, anus and areolae of the female breast, as well as
portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices or by other minor
accessory apparel such as hats, gloves and socks.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areolae, but not including any portion of the cleavage of the female
breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit or other
wearing apparel, provided the areolae is not exposed; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered, or any device or covering that, when worn,
simulates human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACT. Any unlawful lewd, indecent or immoral conduct,
including specifically, but without limitation, any of the lewd, indecent or
immoral criminal acts specified in any of the following statutes:
      (1)   Article II of the Illinois Criminal Code (sex offenses);
      (2)   Section 26-4 of the Illinois Criminal Code, 720 ILCS 5/330
(unauthorized videotaping);
      (3)   Section 33D-1 of the Illinois Criminal Code, 720 ILCS 5/330-1
(contributing to the criminal delinquency of a juvenile);
      (4)   The Obscene Phone Call Act, 720 ILCS 135/0.01 et seq.;
      (5)   The Wrongs to Children Act, 720 ILCS 150/0.01 et seq.;
      (6)   The Improper Supervision Of Children Act, 720 ILCS 640/0.01 et
seq.;
      (7)   The Sale of Immoral Publications to Children Act, 720 ILCS 670/0.01
et seq.;
      (8)   The Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.;
      (9)   The Illinois Controlled Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.;
      (10)   The Federal Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. §§ 801 et seq.;
      (11)   The Federal Sexual Abuse Act, 18 U.S.C. §§ 2241 et seq.;
      (12)   The Federal Mann Act, 18 U.S.C. §§ 2421 et seq.;
      (13)   The Federal Child Exploitation Act, 18 U.S.C. §§ 2251 et seq.; and
      (14)   The Federal Obscenity Act, 18 U.S.C. §§ 1460 et seq.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence; and/or
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in of this definition.
   STRADDLE DANCE. The use by any person, including specifically, but without
limitation, an adult establishment employee, or any part of his or her body to
touch the genitals, pubic region, buttock, anus or female breast of any adult
establishment patron or any other person, or the touching of the genitals,
pubic region, buttock, anus or female breast of any person by any adult
establishment patron. Conduct shall be a STRADDLE DANCE regardless of whether
the touch or touching occurs while the person is displaying or exposing any
specified anatomical area. Conduct shall also be a STRADDLE DANCE regardless of
whether the touch or touching is direct or through a medium. Conduct commonly
referred to by the slang terms LAP DANCE, TABLE DANCE and FACE DANCE shall be
included within this definition of STRADDLE DANCE.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The ordinance known and referred to as the “Zoning
Ordinance of the Village of Tremont, Illinois,” being Chapter 153 of this code
of ordinances, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001)
§ 111.03 ADULT USE COMMISSIONER AND ADULT USE COMMISSION.
   (A)   Adult Use Commissioner. The Village President is hereby designated as
the Adult Use Commissioner pursuant to the terms and conditions of this
chapter. The Adult Use Commissioner shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To administer and rule upon the applications for, and the issuance,
renewal, suspension and revocation of, adult establishment licenses as set
forth in this chapter;
      (2)   To conduct or provide for such inspections of adult entertainment
establishments as shall be necessary to determine and ensure compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and other applicable provisions of law;
      (3)   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter and the
conduct and operation of adult entertainment establishments and adult
establishment licensees, and to make such related reports and recommendations
to the Board of Trustees as the Adult Use Commissioner shall deem necessary;
      (4)   To appoint members of the Board of Trustees to serve on the Adult
Use Commission as set forth in division (B) below;
      (5)   To direct the Adult Use Commission to conduct such hearings,
studies and reports on adult entertainment establishments, and the regulations
relating thereto, as the Adult Use Commissioner shall deem necessary; and
      (6)   To take such further actions as the Adult Use Commissioner shall
deem necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this chapter and to
exercise such additional powers in furtherance thereof as are implied or
incident to those powers and duties expressly set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Adult Use Commission.
      (1)   A commission, to be known as the “Adult Use Commission,” is hereby
created and established for the purposes set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   The Adult Use Commissioner may appoint one or more current members
of the Board of Trustees to serve at the will of the Adult Use Commissioner,
and to advise the Adult Use Commissioner on matters relating to the
implementation and enforcement of the regulations set forth in this chapter and
to the exercise of the Adult Use Commissioner’s powers and duties under this
chapter. The person or persons appointed by the Adult Use Commissioner, along
with the Adult Use Commissioner, shall comprise the Adult Use Commission.
      (3)   The Adult Use Commissioner shall file a written appointment of each
of the members of the Adult Use Commission in the office of the Village Clerk.
      (4)   The Adult Use Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
         (a)   To recommend to the Adult Use Commissioner such further
regulations regarding adult entertainment establishments and adult
establishment licenses as the members of the Commission may deem necessary to
protect the public health, safety and welfare or to otherwise carry out the
purposes and objectives of the regulations established pursuant to this
chapter;
         (b)   To conduct and prepare hearings, studies and reports upon
matters referred to the Adult Use Commission by the Adult Use Commissioner and
to make such reports and recommendations relating thereto as are required by
the Adult Use Commissioner; and
         (c)   To conduct such hearings on the revocation or suspension of an
adult establishment license as required pursuant to §
111.16.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001)
§ 111.04 ADULT ESTABLISHMENT LICENSES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Adult establishment license required. An adult establishment license
shall be required to establish, operate or maintain an adult entertainment
establishment within the village.
   (B)   Operation without license prohibited. Except as provided in division
(F) below with regard to adult entertainment establishments existing prior to
the effective date of this chapter, being June 6, 2001, it shall be unlawful
for any person not having a current and valid adult establishment license to
establish, operate or maintain an adult entertainment establishment within the
village at any time after the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   Operation in violation of license prohibited. It shall be unlawful for
any licensee to establish, operate or maintain an adult entertainment
establishment within the village except in the manner authorized by, and in
compliance with, the provisions of this chapter and the licensee’s adult
establishment license.
   (D)   Content and display of license. Every adult establishment license
shall be provided by the village and shall prominently state on its face, among
other things, the name of the licensee, the expiration date and the address of
the adult entertainment establishment. Every licensee shall cause the
licensee’s adult establishment license to be framed, covered by glass and hung
at all times in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises so
that it can be seen and read easily at any time by any person entering the
licensed premises.
   (E)   License term. Except as hereinafter provided, adult establishment
licenses shall be operative and valid, unless first terminated, suspended, or
revoked, for a term of one year commencing on January 1 of the year following
the year of issuance and terminating on December 31 of that same year. Adult
establishment licenses issued after January 1 of any year for operations to
commence in that year shall be operative and valid, unless first terminated,
suspended or revoked, for a term commencing on the date of issuance and
terminating on December 31 of that same year.
   (F)   Existing establishments.
      (1)   Application generally. An adult entertainment establishment
existing and operating on or prior to the effective date of this chapter, being
June 6, 2001, may continue to exist and operate as of the effective date;
provided, however, that the existing establishment shall:
         (a)   Submit an application for an adult establishment license not
later than August 31, 2001;
         (b)   Cease operations on October 30, 2001 (the “licensure date”),
unless it has secured an adult establishment license by the licensure date; and
         (c)   Shall comply with, and continue at all times to comply with, the
requirements of division (F)(2) below.
      (2)   Required compliance on effective date. An existing establishment
shall, as of the effective date, be subject to the provisions of §§
111.08,
111.10(A) through
111.10(C),
111.10(E) through
111.10(J),
111.10(L),
111.11(A),
111.11(B),
111.11(F),
111.11(G),
111.12(C) through
111.12(E),
111.13 and
111.14, and shall at all times continue in compliance with said provisions.
   (G)   Renewal. An adult establishment license may be renewed only by making
application as required for an initial license pursuant to §
111.05. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration of the then-current license term. The expiration of the license
shall not be affected or extended by a renewal application that is made less
than 30 days before expiration.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001)
§ 111.05 FORM AND SUBMISSION OF LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Required form.
      (1)   An application for an adult establishment license, or the renewal
thereof, shall be made in writing to the Adult Use Commissioner and submitted
to the Village Clerk on a form prescribed by the Adult Use Commissioner and
shall be signed by:
         (a)   The applicant, if the applicant is an individual;
         (b)   At least one of the persons entitled to share in the profits of
the organization and having unlimited personal liability for the obligations of
the organization and the right to bind all other such persons, if the applicant
is a partnership (general or limited), joint venture or any other type of
organization where two or more persons share in the profits and liabilities of
the organization;
         (c)   A duly authorized agent, if the applicant is a corporation; or
         (d)   The trustee, if the applicant is a land trust.
      (2)   The application shall be verified by oath or affidavit as to all
statements made on or in connection with the application and any attachments
thereto. Each application shall specifically identify the applicant and the
licensed premises for which an adult establishment license is sought. Each
initial or renewal application shall be accompanied by seven identical copies.
   (B)   Administrative processing fee and security.
      (1)   Every applicant for an adult establishment license or for the
renewal of an existing adult establishment license shall pay an administrative
processing fee in the amount of $1,000 by certified check to the village at the
time of filing such application. The administrative processing fee shall in all
cases be non-refundable and shall be deposited in the general corporate fund of
the village.
      (2)   Each adult establishment license, and any renewals thereof, shall
be conditioned on the acquisition and maintenance in good standing by the
applicant and licensee of a surety bond or other similar security in favor of
the village in the amount of $2,500 to the village. Before an adult
establishment license may be issued, the applicant shall furnish such bond or
security, and before an adult establishment license is renewed or reinstated
following revocation or suspension, the licensee shall submit evidence that the
bond or other security in the amount required pursuant hereto, remains in full
force and effect. The bond or other security, or part thereof, for an adult
entertainment establishment shall be forfeited automatically pursuant to §
111.16(B)(4) in order to reimburse the village for the village’s costs in
association with the proceedings related to any suspension or revocation of the
license.
   (C)   Required information end documents. Each application shall include the
following information and documents:
      (1)   (a)   For individuals, the applicant’s legal name, all of the
applicant’s aliases, the applicant’s business address and social security
number, written proof of the applicant’s age, the citizenship and place of
birth of the applicant and, if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of the
applicant’s naturalization;
         (b)   For corporations, the applicant corporation’s complete name and
official business address; the legal name, all aliases and the ages, business
addresses and social security numbers of all of the directors, officers and
managers of the corporation and of every person owning or controlling more than
50% of the voting shares of the corporation; the corporation’s date and place
of incorporation and the objects for which it was formed; proof that the
corporation is a corporation in good standing and authorized to conduct
business in the state; and the name of the registered corporate agent and the
address of the registered office for service of process;
         (c)   For partnerships (general or limited), joint ventures or any
other type of organization where two or more persons share in the profits and
liabilities of the organization, the applicant organization’s complete name and
official business address; the legal name, all aliases and the ages, business
addresses and social security numbers of each partner (other than limited
partners) or any other person entitled to share in the profits of the
organization, whether or not any such person is also obligated to share in the
liabilities of the organization; and
         (d)   For land trusts, the applicant land trust’s complete name; the
legal name, all aliases and the business address of the trustee of the land
trust; the legal name, all aliases and the ages, business addresses and social
security numbers of each beneficiary of the land trust and the specific
interest of each such beneficiary in the land trust; and the interest, if any,
that the land trust hold in the licensed premises.
      (2)   If a corporation or partnership is an interest holder that must be
disclosed pursuant to divisions (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) above, then such
interest holders shall disclose the information required in said divisions with
respect to their interest holders;
      (3)   The general character and nature of the business of the applicant;
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been in the business of
the character specified in response to division (C)(1)(c) above;
      (5)   The location, including street address, legal description and
telephone number, of the premises for which the adult establishment license is
sought;
      (6)   The specific name of the business that is to be operated under the
adult establishment license;
      (7)   The identity of each fee simple owner of the licensed premises, and
evidence of a lease, license, or other proper authority evidencing the right of
the applicant to use the licensed premises, for the proposed adult
entertainment establishment;
      (8)   A diagram showing the internal and external configuration of the
licensed premises, including all doors, windows, entrances, exits, the fixed
structural internal features of the licensed premises, plus the interior rooms;
walls, partitions, stages, performance areas and restrooms. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; provided, however, that each diagram shall be oriented to the
north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn to a designated
scale or with marked dimensions to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches and
sufficient to show clearly the various interior dimensions of all areas of the
licensed premises and to demonstrate compliance, either alone or in conjunction
with such other documentation as the applicant shall submit, with the Americans
with Disabilities Act and the Illinois Accessability Code and with the other
provisions of this chapter. The requirements of this division (C)(8) above
shall not apply for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that
was previously submitted for the license sought to be renewed and if the
licensee certifies that the licensed premises has not been altered since the
immediately preceding issuance of the license and that the previous diagram
continues to accurately depict the exterior and interior layouts of the
licensed premises. The approval or use of the diagram required pursuant to this
division (C)(8) above shall not be deemed to be, and shall not be interpreted
or construed to constitute, any other village approval otherwise required
pursuant to applicable village ordinances and regulations;
      (9)   The names of each governmental body from which, within five years
immediately prior to the date of the present application, the applicant, or any
of the individuals identified in the application pursuant to division (C)(1)
and (C)(2) above, has received a license or other authorization to conduct or
operate a business substantially the same as an adult entertainment
establishment, and the names and addresses of each such business; requiring a
federal, state or local liquor license; or requiring a federal, state or local
gaming license;
      (10)   The specific type or types of adult entertainment establishment(s)
that the applicant proposes to operate in the licensed premises;
      (11)   A copy of each adult establishment license, liquor license and
gaming license currently held by the applicant, or any of the individuals
identified in the application pursuant to divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above;
      (12)   Whether the applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to (C)(1) and (C)(2) above, has been, within five years
immediately preceding the date of the application, convicted of, or pleaded
nolo contendere to, any specified criminal act, as to each conviction, the
applicant or other individual shall provide the conviction date, the case
number, the nature of the misdemeanor or felony violation(s) or offenses(s) and
the name and location of the court;
      (13)   Whether the applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, has had a license or
other authorization to conduct or operate a business substantially the same as
an adult entertainment establishment or any business requiring either a liquor
or gaming license, revoked or suspended, and, if so, the date and grounds for
each such revocation or suspension, and the name and location of the
establishment at issue;
      (14)   The name of the individual or individuals who shall be the day-to-
day, on-site managers of the proposed adult entertainment establishment. If the
manager is other than the applicant, the applicant shall provide, for each
manager, all of the information required pursuant to divisions (C)(1)(a), and
divisions (C)(9), (C)(11), (C)(12) and (C)(13) above; and
      (15)   For the individual or individuals executing the application
pursuant to division (A) above, and the individual or individuals identified
pursuant to division (C)(14) above, a fully executed waiver on a form
prescribed by the village to obtain criminal conviction information pursuant to
the Illinois Uniform Conviction Information Act.
   (D)   Incomplete applications returned.
      (1)   Any application for an Adult Establishment License that does not
include all of the information and documents required pursuant to division (C)
above, as well as the administrative processing fee and bond or other security
required pursuant to division (B) above, shall be deemed to be incomplete and
shall not be acted on or processed by the village.
      (2)   The Adult Use Commissioner shall, within five days after such
submission, return the incomplete application to the applicant along with a
written explanation of the reasons why the application is incomplete.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001)
§ 111.06 PROCESSING OF LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Reviewing Departments. Within three days after receipt of a complete
application for an adult establishment license that includes all of the
information and documents required pursuant to §
111.05(C), as well as the administrative processing fee and bond or other
security required pursuant to §
111.05(B), the Village Clerk shall transmit, or cause to be transmitted, a copy
of the application to the Reviewing Departments.
   (B)   Reviewing Department reports. Each of the Reviewing Departments shall,
within 25 days after transmittal of the application thereto, or within such
other prior of time as the village and the applicant may otherwise agree:
      (1)   Review the application;
      (2)   Conduct such inspections of the proposed licensed premises and
background investigations of the applicant and any of the individuals
identified in the application pursuant to §§
111.05(C)(1),
111.05(C)(2) or
111.05(C)(14), regarding matters within their respective jurisdictions, as
shall be reasonably necessary to verify the information set forth in the
application and to determine whether the proposed adult entertainment
establishment and licensed premises comply with the requirements of this
chapter and other applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules and regulations;
and
      (3)   Prepare and submit to the adult use commissioner a written report
regarding the results and findings of such reviews, inspections and
investigations.
   (C)   Adult Use Commissioner review. The Adult Use Commissioner shall also
conduct such inspections and investigations as the Adult Use Commissioner shall
deem reasonably necessary to verity the information set forth in the
application and to determine whether the proposed adult entertainment
establishment and licensed premises comply with the requirements of this
chapter and other applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules and regulations.
   (D)   Reliance on diagram. In the event that the licensed premises has not
yet been constructed or reconstructed to accommodate the proposed adult
entertainment establishment, the Adult Use Commissioner and the Reviewing
Departments shall base their respective written reports, investigations and
inspections to the extent necessary, on the diagram submitted pursuant to §
111.05(C)(8). Any adult establishment license issued prior to the construction
or reconstruction necessary to accommodate the proposed adult entertainment
establishment shall contain a condition that the adult entertainment
establishment shall not open for business until the licensed premises has been
inspected and determined to be in substantial compliance with the diagram
submitted with the application.
   (E)   Applicant cooperation required. An applicant for an adult
establishment license shall cooperate fully in the inspections and
investigations conducted pursuant to this chapter by the Adult Use Commissioner
and the Reviewing Departments. The applicant’s failure or refusal to give any
information reasonably relevant to the investigation of the application; to
allow the licensed premises to be inspected; to appear at any reasonable time
and place for examination under oath regarding the application; or to otherwise
cooperate with the investigation and inspection required by this chapter, shall
constitute an admission by the applicant that the applicant is ineligible for
an adult establishment license and shall be grounds for denial of the license
by the Adult Use Commissioner.
   (F)   Time for issuance or denial.
      (1)   The Adult Use Commissioner shall, within 30 days after submission
of a properly completed application, or within such other period of time as the
village and the applicant shall otherwise agree, either issue an adult
establishment license pursuant to the provisions of §
111.07(A) or deny issuance of the adult establishment license pursuant to the
provisions of §
111.07(B).
      (2)   The Adult Use Commissioner shall issue or deny the license within
said 30-day period, or such other period of time as shall have been agreed to
by the village and the applicant, regardless of whether or not the Adult Use
Commissioner has received all of the Reviewing Department reports.
   (G)   Decision final. The action taken by the Adult Use Commissioner to
issue or deny any adult establishment license pursuant, respectively, to §§
111.07(A) and
111.07(B) shall be final and shall be subject to judicial review.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001)
§ 111.07 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Issuance. The Adult Use Commissioner shall issue an adult
establishment license to an applicant if, but only if, the Adult Use
Commissioner finds and determines all of the following, based on the reports,
investigations and inspections conducted by the Adult Use Commissioner and the
Reviewing Departments and on any other credible information on which it is
reasonable for the Adult Use Commissioner to rely:
      (1)   All information and documents required by this section for issuance
of an adult establishment license have been properly provided and the material
statements made in the application are true and correct;
      (2)   For adult stores and adult theaters, all persons identified in the
application pursuant to §§
111.05(C)(1),
111.05(C)(2) or
111.05(C)(14) are at least 18 years of age and not under any legal disability.
For adult cabarets, all persons identified In the application pursuant to §§
111.05(C)(1),
111.05(C)(2) or
111.05(C)(14) are at least 21 years of age and not under any legal disability;
      (3)   No person identified in the application pursuant to §§
111.05(C)(1),
111.05(C)(2) or
111.05(C)(14) has been convicted of, or pleaded nolo contendere to, any
specified criminal act within five years immediately preceding the date of the
application;
      (4)   No person identified in the application pursuant to §§
111.05(C)(1),
111.05(C)(2) or
111.05(C)(14) has been convicted of, or pleaded nolo contendere to, any
violation of a provision of this chapter within five years immediately
preceding the date of the application;
      (5)   No person identified in the application pursuant to §§
111.05(C)(1),
111.05(C)(2) or
111.05(C)(14) is overdue on payment to the village of taxes, fees, fines or
penalties assessed against, or imposed on, any such individual in connection to
any adult entertainment establishment;
      (6)   No person identified in the application pursuant to §§
111.05(C)(1),
111.05(C)(2) or
111.05(C)(14) is residing with, or married to, a person who has been denied an
adult establishment license within 12 months immediately preceding the date of
the application; whose adult establishment license has been revoked within 12
months immediately preceding the date of the application; or whose adult
establishment license is under suspension at the time of application;
      (7)   The adult entertainment establishment and the licensed premises,
and the proposed operation of the adult entertainment establishment, comply
with all then-applicable building, health and life safety codes and regulations
and have received all necessary zoning approvals required pursuant to the then
applicable provisions of
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances; and
      (8)   The applicant has confirmed in writing and under oath as part of
the application that the applicant has read this chapter and all provisions of
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances applicable to adult entertainment
establishments, that the applicant is familiar with the terms and conditions,
and that the licensed premises and the proposed adult entertainment
establishment and its proposed operation are and shall be in compliance
therewith.
   (B)   Denial. If the Adult Use Commissioner determines that the applicant
has not met any one or more of the conditions set forth in division (A) above,
then the Adult Use Commissioner shall deny issuance of the adult establishment
license and shall give the applicant a written notification and explanation of
such denial. The Adult Use Commissioner’s notice of denial shall be delivered
In person or by certified United States mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, addressed to the applicant’s address as set forth in the
application. The adult establishment license shall be deemed denied on the day
that the notice of denial is delivered in person or three days after it is
placed in the United States mail, as provided in this section.
   (C)   License deemed to be issued. If the Adult Use Commissioner does not
issue or deny the adult establishment license within 30 days after the properly
completed application is submitted, then the adult establishment license
applied for shall be deemed to have been issued.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001)
§ 111.08 INSPECTIONS BY THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   Authority. The Adult Use Commissioner and other village
representatives and departments with jurisdiction shall periodically inspect
all adult entertainment establishments as shall be necessary to determine
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable law.
   (B)   Licensee cooperation. A licensee shall permit representatives of the
village to inspect the licensed premises and the adult entertainment
establishment for the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of
this chapter and all other applicable law at any time during which the licensed
premises is occupied or the adult entertainment establishment is open for
business.
   (C)   Interference or refusal illegal. It shall be unlawful for the
licensee, any adult establishment employee or any other person to prohibit,
interfere with or refuse to allow any lawful inspection conducted by the
village pursuant to this chapter or any other authority.
   (D)   Suspension or revocation. Any such prohibition, interference or
refusal shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of the adult
establishment license pursuant to §
111.16.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001)
§ 111.09 CHANGE IN INFORMATION.
   During the pendency of any application for, or during the term of, any adult
establishment license, the applicant or licensee shall promptly notify the
adult use commissioner, in writing, of any change in any material information
given by the applicant or licensee in the application for such license,
including specifically, but without limitation, any change in managers of the
adult entertainment establishment or in the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to §§
111.06(C)(1) or
111.06(C)(2), or if any of the events constituting grounds for suspension or
revocation pursuant to §
111.16(A) occur.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001)
§ 111.10 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   General compliance. All licensed premises and adult entertainment
establishments shall comply with the provisions of this chapter; all other
applicable village ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations; and all
other applicable federal, state and local laws.
   (B)   Hours of operation. No adult entertainment establishment shall be open
for business at any time between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on any
weekday or Saturday. No adult entertainment establishment shall be open for
business at any time on any Sunday or on any legal state or federal holiday.
   (C)   Animals. No animals, except only for seeing-eye dogs required to
assist the blind, shall be permitted at any time at or in any adult
entertainment, establishment or licensed premises.
   (D)   Restrooms. All restrooms in adult entertainment establishments shall
be equipped with standard toilets, sinks, and other traditional lavatory
facilities. No adult materials or live performances shall be provided or
allowed at any time in the restrooms of an adult entertainment establishment.
Separate male and female restrooms shall be provided for and used by adult
establishment employees and adult establishment patrons.
   (E)   Restricted access. No adult establishment patron shall be permitted at
any time to enter into any of the non-public portions of any adult
entertainment establishment, including specifically, but without limitation,
any storage areas or dressing or other rooms provided for the benefit of adult
establishment employees. This division (E) shall not apply to persons
delivering goods and materials, food and beverages or performing maintenance or
repairs to the licensed premises; provided, however, that any such persons
shall remain in such non-public areas only for the purposes and to the extent
and time necessary to perform their job duties.
   (F)   Specific prohibited acts.
      (1)   No adult establishment employee or any other person at any adult
entertainment establishment shall appear, be present or perform while nude.
      (2)   No adult establishment employee or any other person at any adult
entertainment establishment shall perform or conduct any specified sexual
activity with or for any adult establishment patron or any other adult
establishment employee or any other person. No adult establishment patron or
any other person at any adult entertainment establishment shall perform or
conduct any specified sexual activity with or for any adult establishment
employee or any other adult establishment patron or any other person.
      (3)   Straddle dances shall be prohibited at all adult entertainment
establishments.
   (G)   Exterior display.
      (1)   No adult entertainment establishment shall be maintained or
operated in any manner that causes, creates or allows public viewing of any
adult material, or any entertainment depleting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, from any sidewalk,
public or private right-of-way or any property other than the lot on which the
licensed premises is located.
      (2)   No portion of the exterior of an adult entertainment establishment
shall utilize or contain any flashing lights, search lights or spotlights, or
any other similar lighting systems, or any words, lettering, photographs,
silhouettes, drawings or pictorial representations of any manner except to the
extent specifically allowed pursuant to division (A) above with regard to
signs. This section shall apply to any advertisement, display, promotional
material, decoration or sign; to any performance or show; and to any window,
door or other opening.
   (H)   Signage limitations. All signs for adult entertainment establishments
shall be flat wall signs. The maximum allowable sign area shall be one square
foot of sign area per foot of lot frontage on a street, but in no event
exceeding 32 square feet. The maximum number of signs shall be one per lot
frontage. Signs otherwise permitted pursuant to this chapter shall contain only
the name of the adult entertainment establishment and/or the specific type of
adult entertainment establishment conducted on the licensed premises. Temporary
signage shall not be permitted in connection with any adult entertainment
establishment.
   (I)   Noise. No loudspeakers or sound equipment audible beyond the licensed
premises shall be used at any time.
   (J)   Gambling and related devices prohibited. No adult entertainment
establishment shall contain any video, pinball, slot, bagatelle, pigeon-hole,
pool or any other games, machines, tables or implements.
   (K)   Manager’s station.
      (1)   Each adult entertainment establishment shall have one or more
manager’s stations.
      (2)   The interior of each adult entertainment establishment shall be
configured in such a manner that there is a direct and substantially
unobstructed view from at least one manager’s station to every part of each
area, except restrooms, of the establishment to which any adult establishment
patron is permitted access for any purpose.
   (L)   Alcohol prohibition. No alcoholic liquor of any kind shall be sold,
used, consumed or possessed at any time on any licensed premises or at any
adult entertainment establishment.
   (M)   Location of establishment. No adult entertainment establishment shall
be maintained or operated within 1,000 feet of:
      (1)   Another existing adult entertainment establishment;
      (2)   Any zoning district which is zoned for single-family (R-1), two-
family (R-2) or multi-family (R-3) residential use;
      (3)   A pre-existing school;
      (4)   Any pre-existing school bus stop where children are picked up and
disembark from school buses;
      (5)   Any church or other place of worship;
      (6)   Any park, recreation, historical or conservation area; or
      (7)   Any pre-existing business or structure in which alcoholic beverages
or liquor are sold or dispensed.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT BOOTHS.
   (A)   Prohibited except in adult stores. Adult booths shall be prohibited in
all adult entertainment establishments except adult stores.
   (B)   Occupancy and prohibited acts. Only one individual shall occupy an
adult booth at any one time. No individual occupying an adult booth shall
engage in any specified sexual activities. No individual shall damage or deface
any portion of an adult booth.
   (C)   Open booth requirement. In addition to satisfying the manager station
requirements of §
111.10(K), all adult stores containing adult booths shall be physically
arranged in such a manner that the entire interior portion of each adult booth
shall be visible from the common area of the adult store.
      (1)   To satisfy this requirement, there shall be a permanently open and
unobstructed for each adult booth and for the entranceway from the area of the
adult store that provides other adult materials to the area of the adult store
containing the adult booths.
      (2)   Each of these entrance ways shall not be capable of being closed or
obstructed, entirely or partially, by any door, curtain, partition, drapes or
any other obstruction whatsoever that would be capable of wholly or partially
obscuring the area of the adult store containing the adult booths or any person
situated in an adult booth. It shall be unlawful to install adult booths within
an adult entertainment establishment for the purpose of providing secluded
viewing or adult materials or live performances.
   (D)   Aisle required. There shall be one continuous lighted main aisle along
side the adult booths provided in any adult store, each person situated in a
booth shall be visible at all times from the aisle.
   (E)   Holes prohibited. Except for the open booth entranceway, the walls and
partitions of each adult booth shall be constructed and maintained of solid
walls or partitions without any holes or openings whatsoever.
   (F)   Signage. A sign shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entranceway to each adult booth that states:
      (1)   Only one person is allowed in an adult booth at any one time;
      (2)   It is unlawful to engage in any specified sexual activities while
in an adult booth; and
      (3)   It is unlawful to damage or deface any portion of an adult booth.
   (G)   Age limitations.
      (1)   No adult establishment employee or adult establishment patron at an
adult booth or a licensed premises that includes an adult booth shall be under
the age of 18.
      (2)   No person under the age of 18 shall be admitted to any adult booth
or any licensed premises that includes an adult booth.
      (3)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed or permitted to
remain at any adult booth or at any licensed premises that includes an adult
booth.
      (4)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed or permitted to
purchase or receive, whether for consideration or not, any adult material or
other goods or services at or from any adult booth or any licensed premises
that includes an adult booth.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT CABARETS.
   (A)   Performance area.
      (1)   The performance area of an adult cabaret shall be limited to one or
more stages or platforms permanently anchored to the floor, known as a CABARET
STAGE. Each cabaret stage shall be at least 18 inches in elevation above the
level of the patron seating areas. Each cabaret stage shall be separated by a
distance of at least eight feet from all areas of the premises to which adult
entertainment patrons have access.
      (2)   (a)   A continuous barrier at least three feet in height and
located at least eight feet from all points of each cabaret stage shall
separate each cabaret stage from all patron seating areas.
         (b)   The barrier shall consist of horizontal or vertical members
spaced no more than nine inches apart and nine inches from the floor or the
walls to which it is attached.
   (B)   Lighting.
      (1)   Sufficient lighting shall be provided and equally distributed
throughout the public areas of the adult cabaret so that all objects are
plainly visible at all times.
      (2)   A minimum lighting level of not less than 30 lux horizontal,
measured at 30 inches from the floor and on ten-foot centers shall be
maintained at all times for all areas of the adult cabaret where adult
establishment patrons are admitted.
   (C)   Tipping.
      (1)   No tip or gratuity from any adult establishment patron may be
offered or accepted for any performance by an adult establishment employee on
any adult cabaret stage at any time prior to the completion of any such
performance.
      (2)   No adult establishment patron shall offer, and no adult
establishment employee having performed oh any cabaret stage shall accept, any
form of tip or gratuity offered directly to the employee by the adult
establishment patron. Rather, following completion of a performance, all tips
and gratuities to adult establishment employees performing on any cabaret stage
shall be placed into a receptacle provided for receipt of such tips and
gratuities by the adult entertainment establishment.
   (D)   Notice of select rules. A sign at least two feet by two feet, with
letters at least one inch high shall be conspicuously displayed on or adjacent
to every cabaret stage stating the following:
 
“THIS ADULT CABARET IS REGULATED BY THE VILLAGE OF TREMONT; ENTERTAINERS ARE:
   1.   NOT PERMITTED TO ENGAGE IN ANY TYPE OF SEXUAL CONDUCT,
   2.   NOT PERMITTED TO APPEAR IN A STATE OF NUDITY,
   3.   NOT PERMITTED TO ACCEPT TIPS OR GRATUITIES FOR ANY PERFORMANCE UNTIL AFTER
COMPLETION OF THE PERFORMANCE,
   4.   NOT PERMITTED TO ACCEPT ANY TIPS DIRECTLY FROM PATRONS EVEN AFTER
COMPLETION OF THE PERFORMANCE. ANY SUCH TIPS MUST BE PLACED INTO THE RECEPTACLE
PROVIDED BY MANAGEMENT.”
 
   (E)   Age limitations.
      (1)   No adult establishment employee or adult establishment patron at an
adult cabaret or a licensed premises used for an adult cabaret shall be under
the age of 21.
      (2)   No person under the age of 21 shall be admitted to any adult
cabaret or to any licensed premises used for an adult cabaret.
      (3)   No person under the age of 21 shall be allowed or permitted to
remain at any adult cabaret or any licensed premises used for an adult cabaret.
      (4)   No person under the age of 21 shall be allowed or permitted to
purchase or receive, whether for consideration or not, any adult material or
other goods or services at or from any adult cabaret or any licensed premises
used for an adult cabaret.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.13 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT STORES.
   (A)   Windows and signs. Window areas for adult stores shall not be covered
or obstructed in any way. No signs or other obstructions shall be placed in the
windows.
   (B)   Age limitations.
      (1)   No adult establishment employee or adult establishment patron at an
adult store or a licensed premises used for an adult store shall be under the
age of 18.
      (2)   No person under the age of 18 shall be admitted to any adult store
or to any licensed premises used for an adult store.
      (3)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed or permitted to
remain at any adult store or any licensed premises used for an adult store.
      (4)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed or permitted to
purchase or receive, whether for consideration or not, any adult material or
other goods or services at or from any adult store or any licensed premises
used for an adult store.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.14 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT THEATERS.
   (A)   Seating.
      (1)   Each adult theater shall provide seating only in individual chairs
with arms of in seats separated from each other by immovable arms and not on
couches, benches or any other multiple person seating structures.
      (2)   The number of seats shall equal the maximum number of persons who
may occupy the adult theater.
   (B)   Aisle. Each adult theater shall have a continuous main aisle alongside
the seating area in order that each person seated in the adult theater shall be
visible from the aisle at all times.
   (C)   Sign. Each adult theater shall have a sign posted in a conspicuous
place at or near each entranceway to the auditorium or similar area that lists
the maximum number of persons who may occupy the auditorium area, which number
shall not exceed the number of seats in the auditorium area.
   (D)   Age limitations.
      (1)   No adult establishment employee or adult establishment patron at an
adult theater or a licensed premises used for an adult theater shall be under
the age of 18.
      (2)   No person under the age of 18 shall be admitted to any adult
theater or to any licensed premises used for an adult theater.
      (3)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed or permitted to
remain at any adult theater or any licensed premises used for an adult theater.
      (4)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed or permitted to
purchase or receive, whether for consideration or not, any adult material or
other goods or services at or from any adult theater or any licensed premises
used for an adult theater.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.15 LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITY FOR EMPLOYEES.
   Every act or omission by an adult establishment employee constituting a
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be the act or
omission of the licensee if such act or omission occurs either with the
authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee, or as a result of the
licensee’s negligent failure to supervise the adult establishment employee. The
licensee shall be punishable for any such act or omission in the same manner as
if the licensee committed the act or caused the omission. Accordingly, any such
act or omission of any such employee constituting a violation of the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed, for purposes of determining whether the
licensee’s adult establishment license shall be revoked, suspended or renewed,
to be the act or omission of the licensee.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Grounds. Pursuant to the procedures set forth in division (B) below,
the Adult Use Commissioner may suspend, for not more than 30 days, or revoke
any adult establishment license if the Adult Use Commissioner, based on
credible and reasonably reliable information and evidence, determines that any
one or more of the following has occurred:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any of the provisions or requirements of
this chapter or the adult establishment license issued pursuant hereto, or the
provisions of Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances applicable to the licensed
premises or the adult entertainment establishment;
      (2)   The licensee knowingly or negligently furnished false or misleading
information or withheld information on any application or other document
submitted to the village for the issuance or renewal of any adult establishment
license; or knowingly or negligently caused or suffered any other person to
furnish or withhold any such information on the licensee’s behalf;
      (3)   The licensee has been convicted of, or pleaded nolo contendere to,
a felony or specified criminal act on the licensed premises;
      (4)   The licensee authorizes, approves or, as a result of the licensee’s
negligent failure to supervise the licensed premises or the adult entertainment
establishment, allows an adult establishment employee, an adult establishment
patron or any other person to violate any of the provisions or requirements of
this chapter or of the provisions or requirements of the adult establishment
license issued pursuant hereto, or commit any felony or specified criminal act
on the licensed premises; or
      (5)   The licensee, or any person identified pursuant to §§
111.05(C)(1),
111.05(C)(2) or
111.05(C)(14) becomes disqualified for the issuance of an adult establishment
license at any time during the term of the license at issue.
   (B)   Procedure. An adult entertainment establishment license may be
suspended for not more than 30 days or revoked pursuant to the terms and
conditions set forth in this division (B).
      (1)   Upon determining that one or more of the grounds for suspension or
revocation under division (A) above may exist, the Adult Use Commissioner shall
serve a written notice on the licensee in person or by certified United States
mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the licensee’s
address as set forth in the licensee’s application.
         (a)   The written notice shall, at a minimum:
            1.   State that Adult Use Commissioner has determined that the
adult establishment license may be subject to suspension or revocation pursuant
to division (A) above;
            2.   Identify the specific grounds for the Adult Use Commissioner’s
determination; and
            3.   Set a date for a hearing regarding the Adult Use
Commissioner’s determination as to the possibility of suspension or revocation
of the adult establishment license.
         (b)   The date of the hearing shall be no less than five days after
service of the Adult Use Commissioner’s notice, unless an earlier or later date
is agreed to by the licensee and the Adult Use Commissioner.
      (2)   (a)   The hearing shall be conducted by the Adult Use Commissioner,
or, at the Adult Use Commissioner’s direction, by the Adult Use Commission. At
the hearing, the licensee may present and submit evidence and witnesses to
refute the grounds cited by the Adult Use Commissioner for suspending or
revoking the license and the village and any other persons may submit evidence
to sustain such grounds.
         (b)   The administrative record compiled on the adult entertainment
establishment pursuant to §
111.17 shall be made part of the hearing record. Within three days after the
close of the hearing, the Adult Use Commissioner shall, having considered the
record made at the hearing, render a decision in writing, setting forth the
reasons for the decision. The action taken by the Adult Use Commissioner shall
be final and shall be subject to judicial review.
      (3)   (a)   The Adult Use Commissioner’s written decision shall be posted
at the office of the Adult Use Commissioner and shall be served on the licensee
in person or by certified United States, mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, addressed to the licensee’s address as set forth in the licensee’s
application.
         (b)   Any suspension or revocation, as the case may be, shall take
effect on the day that the Adult Use Commissioner’s written decision is
delivered in person or three days after it is placed in the United States mail
as provided in this paragraph.
      (4)   (a)   Upon the suspension or revocation of an adult establishment
license pursuant to this chapter:
            1.   The Adult Use Commissioner shall take custody of the suspended
or revoked license; and
            2.   Such part or all of the bond or other security submitted for
the adult entertainment establishment pursuant to §
111.05(B)(2) shall be forfeited as the Adult Use Commissioner shall deem
necessary to reimburse the village for the costs associated with the
proceedings related to the suspension or revocation at issue.
         (b)   Such bond or other security shall be replenished to equal the
amount required pursuant to §
111.05(B)(2) prior to the issuance of any new adult establishment license for
the licensed premises or for the reinstatement of any suspended license.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001)
§ 111.17 ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD.
   The Adult Use Commissioner shall cause to be kept in the Adult Use
Commissioner’s office an accurate record of every adult establishment license
application received and acted on, together with all relevant information and
material pertaining to such application, any adult establishment license issued
pursuant thereto and any adult entertainment establishment operated pursuant to
such adult establishment license.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001)
§ 111.18 RECORD KEEPING BY LICENSEE.
   (A)   The licensee of every adult entertainment establishment shall maintain
a register of all of its adult establishment employees. For each such employee,
the register shall include the following information:
      (1)   Legal name;
      (2)   Any and all aliases;
      (3)   Current residential address and telephone number;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Gender;
      (6)   Social security number;
      (7)   Date of commencement of employment;
      (8)   Date of employment termination, if applicable; and
      (9)   Specific job or employment duties.
   (B)   The register shall be maintained for all current employees and all
employees employed at any time during the preceding 36 months. The licensee
shall make the register of its adult establishment employees available for
inspection by the village immediately upon demand at all reasonable times.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any adult entertainment establishment established, operated or maintained in
violation of any of the provisions or requirements of this chapter or of any
adult establishment license shall be, and the same is, declared to be unlawful
and a public nuisance. The village may, in addition to or in lieu of any other
remedies set forth in this chapter, commence an action to enjoin, remove or
abate such nuisance in the manner provided by law and shall take such other
steps and apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such
relief as will abate or remove such public nuisance, and restrain and enjoin
any person from establishing, operating or maintaining an adult entertainment
establishment contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   Unless otherwise specifically set forth in this chapter, the time within
which any act required by this chapter is to be done shall be computed by
excluding the first day and including the last day, unless the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a federal or state holiday, in which case it shall also be
excluded. If the day immediately following such Saturday, Sunday or holiday is
also a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, then such succeeding day shall also be
excluded.
(Ord. 01-102, passed 6-18-2001)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 112: ADVERTISING
Section
Outdoor Advertisers
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application
   
112.04   Fee
   
112.05   Use of billboards
   
112.06   Consent of owner
   
112.07   Accumulation of refuse prohibited
   
112.08   Weeds and material at base of billboards
   
112.09   Unlawful advertising
   
112.10   Disfiguring signs
   
112.11   Name of advertiser
   
112.12   Exemptions
OUTDOOR ADVERTISERS
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISER. Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
placing, posting or painting any advertisements notices or displays in or on
any place for the purpose of outdoor advertising so that the resultant display
is visible from any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any outdoor advertiser to do business in the
village without having first secured a license therefor as is herein required;
provided that, no license issued under this subchapter shall be construed to
permit the use of any structures, natural or artificial, which are located in
any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public place for advertising
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION.
   Applications for such licenses shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk
and shall be accompanied by a list of all places, including billboards or
natural structures on which it is intended to place signs or advertisements.
This list shall be amended from time to time by the licensee as the right to
post or place advertisements or signs on additional places is required.
(Prior Code, § 112.03)
§ 112.04 FEE.
   The Board may charge a fee for the issuance of such license in the amount it
may from time to time determine.
(Prior Code, § 112.04)
§ 112.05 USE OF BILLBOARDS.
   No person shall post or maintain any advertisement or sign on any billboard
or signboard which does not fully comply with the applicable provisions of this
code and any other ordinance of the village.
(Prior Code, § 112.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 CONSENT OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful to post any advertisement on any premises in the
village without the consent of the owner of such premises. Such consent must be
in writing and must be filed with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 112.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in outdoor advertising to permit
any refuse resulting from this work to accumulate anywhere in the village,
except by placing it in properly established refuse receptacles. It shall be
unlawful to permit any loose or flapping combustible materials to hang from or
to be attached to any billboard, signboard or other place used for display or
advertising purposes. All refuse resulting from the operating of this business
must be carefully gathered and properly disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 112.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 WEEDS AND MATERIAL AT BASE OF BILLBOARDS.
   It shall be the duty of every outdoor advertiser to keep all grass, weeds
and other growths, except trees and ornamental shrubbery, cut so that the same
shall not grow to be a greater height than eight inches within six feet of any
billboard or signboard used by him or her; provided that, this obligation shall
extend only to property controlled by the advertiser.
(Prior Code, § 112.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.09 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to post or
display any advertisement of an obscene or immoral character, as authorized by
65 ILCS 5/11-5-1 and defined in division (B) below, in any advertisement which
promotes or causes a clear and present danger to the health, safety and order
of the village, and any advertisement for an unlawful gathering, or
advertisements of unlawful sales.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, OBSCENE is defined as follows:
whether, to a reasonable person applying contemporary community standards, the
dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to prurient interests
and is without redeeming social value.
(Prior Code, § 112.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.10 DISFIGURING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to mutilate or disfigure any lawful sign or
advertisement in the village.
(Prior Code, § 112.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.11 NAME OF ADVERTISER.
   It shall be unlawful for any outdoor advertiser to carry on his or her
business unless the name of such advertiser is attached, displayed or printed
on all billboards or signboards used by or in any notice, placard or
advertisement posted by him or her, in such lettering as to be visible from a
distance of at least five feet from the notice or advertisement.
(Prior Code, § 112.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.12 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to apply to the
posting of a sign or notices by order of any court or by any public officer in
the performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 112.12)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Local Liquor Control Commissioner; powers
   
113.03   Compensation of Local Liquor Control Commissioner and Commission
members
License Requirements; Administration
   
113.15   License required
   
113.16   Separate license for each premises; transfer of license to other
premises
   
113.17   License classifications; fees
   
113.18   Restrictions on issuance of Class D licenses
   
113.19   Limitation on number of licenses
   
113.20   Application for license
   
113.21   Criminal history records check; examination of applicant
   
113.22   Bond required; forfeiture
   
113.23   Issuance of licenses to certain persons prohibited
   
113.24   Revocation; suspension; fines; notice; hearing
   
113.25   Complaint of violation; hearing
   
113.26   Appeals from order of Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
113.27   Granting licenses after revocation; waiting period; discretion
revisions
   
113.28   Conflict with village’s Adult Use Ordinance
Conditions and Regulations
   
113.40   Sale near churches, schools and hospitals
   
113.41   Stores selling school supplies, lunches and the like
   
113.42   Violation of tax acts; refusal, revocation or suspension of license
   
113.43   Duration of license; prorating fee
   
113.44   Privilege granted by license; nature as to property; license not
alienable or transferable; tax delinquencies; renewal
   
113.45   Change in stockholders
   
113.46   Sale of licensed business
   
113.47   Display of license
   
113.48   Display of birth defects warning signs
   
113.49   Display of sale to minors warning signs
   
113.50   Hours of operation
   
113.51   Employees
   
113.52   Books and records available for investigation and control; maintenance
   
113.53   View from street; lighting; posting prices
   
113.54   Civil rights in licensed premises
   
113.55   Prohibited entry to a licensed premises
   
113.56   Prohibited sales
   
113.57   Purchase, acceptance of gift, consumption or possession of alcoholic
liquor by persons under 21; identification cards; other prohibitions;
exceptions
   
113.58   Peddling
   
113.59   Happy hours prohibited
   
113.60   Product sampling
   
113.61   Nudity on the premises where alcoholic liquor is offered for sale
   
113.62   Gambling; disorderly conduct
   
113.63   Loitering prohibited
   
113.64   Curb service prohibited
   
113.65   Safety provisions
   
113.66   Reporting incidents to police
   
113.67   Access from licensed premises to dwelling quarters
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, words and phrases used in this
chapter shall be construed as hereinafter set forth, or as used in the state’s
Liquor Control Act of 1934, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., as amended.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of
this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured
alcohol produced in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations
promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing 0.5%, or less, of
alcohol by volume.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   BEER GARDEN. An additional designated area adjoining the licensed premises,
having access from the main premises only, and enclosed by a permanent barrier
with a minimum height of eight feet that has no view from the outside into the
enclosed area, with an emergency means of egress, the enclosure to be located
where and with such restrictions and design as the village’s Liquor Commission
shall direct.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of the state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
a space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided that, such CLUB files with the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner at the time of its application for a license under this chapter,
two copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly
files within ten days of the election of any additional member his or her name
and address; and, provided further that, its affairs and management are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen
by the members at their annual meeting and that no member or any officer, agent
or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the
form of salary or other compensation any profits from the distribution or sale
of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests
introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and
voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its Beard of Directors or
other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
   GASOLINE STATION.
      (1)   Any establishment where motor fuel is sold or offered for sale from
approved pumps, whether through an attendant or by self-service.
      (2)   Motor fuel includes all volatile and inflammable liquids which are
produced, blended or compounded, or which are suitable or practicable for
operating motor vehicles.
   GROCERY STORE. Any establishment that displays and offers for sale at retail
any of the following products: dairy products; meat or poultry products; breads
or baked goods; frozen foods; canned goods other than snacks or alcoholic
liquor; or health and beauty aids.
   INCIDENTAL SALES. Alcohol sales not to exceed 40% of the primary business.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The premises described in a retail liquor dealer’s
license as the place where alcoholic liquor is permitted to be sold at retail.
   LICENSEE. Any person licensed in accordance with and under the provisions of
this chapter.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed
and labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey
any alcoholic liquor.
   PEDDLING. Selling any product door to door or at any location other than a
location for which the sale of alcoholic liquor is permitted in accordance with
this chapter, within the corporate limits of the village.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, limited partnership, club,
association, corporation, limited liability company or other business entity.
   RESIDENT. Any person living in the village for a period of not less than 90
days.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually
and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAIL LIQUOR DEALER’S LICENSE. A license to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail, which has been issued under the provisions of this chapter.
   RETAILER. A person who sells, offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes and
means all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as defined herein.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 08-105, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 113.02 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER; POWERS.
   (A)   The Village President is hereby designated as the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner for the village. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have
the duty to administer and enforce this chapter and the applicable provisions
of the state’s Liquor Control Act of 1934, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., and to
notify the state’s Secretary of State of any convictions for a violation of §
6-20 of the state’s Liquor Control Act of 1934 or §
113.52 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions and duties with respect to liquor licenses, other than licenses to
manufacturers, importing distributors, distributers, foreign importers, non-
resident dealers, non-beverage users, brokers, railroads, airplanes and boats:
      (1)   To appoint two members, one of which shall be a member of the Board
of Trustees, and the other to be a resident of the village;
      (2)   To grant, subject to approval or disapproval by the Village Board,
and or suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke for cause all retail liquor
dealer’s licenses issued to persons for premises within the village;
      (3)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed by the Local Liquor Control Commission or the
state’s Liquor Control Commission to determine whether any of the provisions of
this chapter or the state’s Liquor Control Act of 1934 or any rules or
regulations adopted by him or her or by the state’s Liquor Control Commission
have been or are being violated, and at such time to examine said premises of
said licensee in connection therewith;
      (4)   To notify the Secretary of State where a club incorporated under
the General Not for Profit Corporation Act of 1986, being 805 ILCS 105/101.01
et seq., or a foreign corporation functioning as a club in the state under a
certificate of authority issued under that Act has violated this chapter or the
state’s Liquor Control Act of 1934 by selling or offering for sale at retail
alcoholic liquors without a license;
      (5)   To receive complaints from any citizen within the village that any
of the provisions of this chapter or the state’s Liquor Control Act of 1934, or
any rules or regulations adopted pursuant hereto, have been or are being
violated and to act upon such complaints in the manner hereinafter provided;
      (6)   To receive or authorize the Village Clerk to receive fees for a
retail liquor dealer’s license and other fees required for the application
process;
      (7)   To levy fines in accordance with §
113.24 of this chapter; and
      (8)   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for
a retail liquor dealer’s license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon
whom notice of revocation or suspension has been served in the manner
hereinafter provided, and to examine or cause to be examined, the books and
records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof for
information in the performance of these duties; and for such purpose to issue
subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the state.
   (C)   The Local Liquor Control Commission shall consider and make a
determination as to the applicants request for a license and the class in which
the license will be issued. The Local Liquor Control Commission shall make a
recommendation to the Village Board at a regularly scheduled Board meeting for
final approval or disapproval of each liquor license request and in which class
the license is to be issued. Each license will require a vote of a two-thirds
majority of the Village Board before any license is granted and issued.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 17-105, passed 6-5-2017)
§ 113.03 COMPENSATION OF LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER AND COMMISSION
MEMBERS.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall serve without compensation from
the village. The members of the Local Liquor Commission shall receive
compensation from the village in an amount determined by the Village Board.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
LICENSE REQUIREMENTS; ADMINISTRATION
§ 113.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at retail in
the village any alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer’s
license and a retailer’s license issued by the state’s Liquor Control
Commission or in violation of the terms of such license.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.16 SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH PREMISES; TRANSFER OF LICENSE TO OTHER
PREMISES.
   (A)   PREMISES will be defined by the address of the premises on the
application submitted by the licensee. A retail liquor dealer’s license shall
permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only on the premises described in the
application and license, and only one location shall be so described in each
license. After a license has been granted for a particular premises, such
location may be changed or enlarged only upon the written permission to make
such change issued by the Local Liquor Control Commission and endorsed upon the
license.
   (B)   No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws
of the state and the provisions of this code, and the person requesting the
change files with the state’s Liquor Control Commission and the Local Liquor
Control Commission a written request in writing and a statement under oath
which shall show that the premises to which the change is to be made comply in
all respects with the requirements of state law and the provisions of this
code.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 113.17 LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS; FEES.
   The following license classifications shall be subject to a fee, which shall
be an amount to be determined by the Village Board. The following fee amounts
are current as of December of 2018, and subject to change via resolution of the
Village Board:
Classifications Fees
Classifications                                                            Fees
CLASS A: A Class A license shall authorize the sale at retail of all
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises described in the license  $500
and alcoholic liquor in original packages for consumption off the premises
described in the license.
CLASS B: A Class B license shall authorize the sale by a convenience
store, at retail, of alcoholic liquor in original packages for consumption
off the premises described in the license. The sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises described in the license is         $750
strictly prohibited. A Class B license may be issued, at the sole
discretion of the corporate authorities, as an additional license to a
liquor license issued under a different classification.
CLASS C (CLUB): A Class C license shall authorize the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquor by a club for consumption on the club premises described  $150
in the license. The sale at retail of alcoholic liquor for consumption off
the premises described in the license is strictly prohibited.
CLASS D: A Class D license shall authorize the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor in original packages on the premises of a grocery store for
consumption off the premises described in the license. The sale at retail  $500
of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises described in the
license is strictly prohibited.
CLASS E: A Class E license shall authorize the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises of a restaurant described in the    $500
license. The sale at retail of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the
premises described in the license is strictly prohibited.
CLASS F: A Class F license shall authorize the sale at retail of beer and
wine only, for consumption on the premises of a restaurant. The sale at
retail of alcoholic liquor other than beer and wine or the sale of         $400
alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises described in the license
is strictly prohibited.
CLASS G: A Class G license shall authorize the sale at retail of beer and
wine only, in the original package, for consumption off the premises
described in the license. The sale at retail of beer and wine for          $500
consumption on the premises described in the license is strictly
prohibited.
CLASS H: A Class H license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption upon public or private property for a special event, shall
be granted upon such terms as the Liquor Commission may direct, and shall  $50
be granted only for the premises approved for the event. No license shall  per
be issued for more than a total of four days in a 12-month period for a    day
single special event. An additional fee to reflect expenses for security,
safety and health may be assessed at the sole discretion of the Liquor
Commission.
CLASS I: A Class I license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption on the licensed premises, which shall consist of a golf
course and the property adjoining the golf course used in conjunction with $150
the golf course, including, but not limited to, driving range area,
practice green and club house, including pro-shop and any area adjacent
thereto, all of which make up the “golf course.”
CLASS J: A Class J license shall authorize the sale at retail of beer or
wine for consumption only in a video gaming area as described in the
license. Consumption will be limited to the immediate area of the video
games. The gaming area will be segregated from the remainder of the
facility and shall be designated as the video gaming area. Consumption of
beer or wine by a customer will be limited to no more than two 16-ounce    $500
containers of beer or two 750 milliliter containers of wine or any
combination thereof in any eight hour period. A Class J liquor license may
be issued as an additional license to a liquor license issued under a
different classification, but storage and consumption thereof must at all
times be physically separate in an area that is designated “Video Gaming
Only.”
 
   (B)   All license fees shall be paid to the Village Clerk at the time of
application, and shall be forthwith turned over to the Village Treasurer. In
the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the
applicant. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the
General Corporate Fund by proper action.
   (C)   Applicants applying for or holding a Class A, E or F license may file
a request with the Liquor Commission for the issuance of a license to operate a
“beer garden,” as herein defined, to be constructed and operated upon such
terms and conditions as may be approved or imposed by the Liquor Commission.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 08-105, passed 7-21-2008; Ord. 10-107,
passed 8-2-2010; Ord. 19-107, passed 6-17-2019; Ord. 18-119, passed 12-17-2018;
Ord. 25-107, passed 3-1-2025)
§ 113.18 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF CLASS D LICENSES.
   (A)   Class A, B, C, E, F, G, I and J licenses shall not be issued for the
sale at retail of alcoholic liquor at a grocery store.
   (B)   No license shall be issued to a person or corporation for the purpose
of sale of alcoholic liquor at any premises from which produce, grocery, meat
or drug products are sold or offered for sale, unless such sale of alcoholic
liquor is made from an area physically separated from the other portion of the
premises in the following manner.
      (1)   The separate area for the sale of alcoholic liquor shall have its
own entrance and exit, which shall provide the limit ingress and egress from
the separate area to the exterior of the structure, for patrons purchasing said
alcoholic goods.
      (2)   The separate area shall be physically separated from the premises
selling other products by a permanent wall or walls, which shall extend from
the floor of the structure to the ceiling of the structure; except that, there
may be provided an access, for ingress and egress through said wall to the
other portion of the building.
      (3)   The separate area for the sale of alcoholic liquor shall have its
own check-out counter within the separate area, which check-out counter within
the separate area, which check-out counter shall be the sole check-out point
for the separate area and all alcoholic liquor sales shall be made at the
designated check-out counter in the separate area.
      (4)   All alcoholic liquor stored for sale shall be stored:
         (a)   Within the separate area; or
         (b)   Within other premises having its own entrance and exit, which
entrance and exit shall be secured and monitored to prevent access to said
other premises by persons under the age of 21.
      (5)   Any premises from which products and services not related to the
sale of alcoholic liquor are sold or offered for sale.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 18-119, passed 12-17-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.19 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
the village, to prevent persons under the age of 21 from purchasing alcoholic
liquor and to promote temperance in the consumption of alcoholic liquor, there
shall be the following limitations on the number of retail liquor dealer’s
licenses issued for each classification:
Class A 2
Class B 4
Class C 0
Class D 0
Class E 0
Class F 1
Class G 0
Class H 0
Class I 0
Class J 1
 
   (B)   Applications for retail liquor dealer’s licenses shall be considered
in the order in which they are received by the Local Liquor Control Commission.
A list shall be created to provide an orderly consideration of applicants
desiring a retail liquor dealer’s license and maintained on file in the office
of the Village Clerk. Once an application has been rejected by the Local Liquor
Control Commission for any reason, excluding the lack of availability of a
license, the applicant shall be ineligible for further consideration unless and
until the applicant submits a new application to the Local Liquor Control
Commission in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 07-104, passed 7-2-2007; Ord. 14-101,
passed 2-17-2014; Ord. 25-106, passed 3-17-2025)
§ 113.20 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for a retail liquor dealer’s license shall be made to the
Local Liquor Control Commission in writing, signed by the applicant or by a
duly authorized agent if the application is submitted on behalf of a club,
corporation or other business entity, and verified by oath or affidavit. All
applicants shall attach to the application proof of liquor liability insurance
coverage for the premises of the applicant’s business in which a license is
sought, in such amount that is at least equal to the maximum liability amounts
set out in § 6-21(a) of the state’s Liquor Control Act of 1934, being 235 ILCS
5/1-1 et seq., as amended. All license and application fees shall be paid to
the Village Clerk at the time of application. License fees, not including any
fees for a criminal history records check, shall be refunded to the applicant
if an application is denied.
   (B)   In addition to the above, any application for a retail liquor dealer’s
license shall contain the following information and statements under oath:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, sex, date of birth, mailing address, Social
Security number and position and percentage of ownership in the applicant’s
business;
      (2)   The name and address of the applicant’s business which is to be
operated under such license;
      (3)   If applicable, the date of the filing of the “assumed name” of the
business with the County Clerk;
      (4)   The name, sex, date of birth, mailing address, Social Security
number, position and percentage of ownership in the business of every owner or
partner of the business;
      (5)   The name, sex, date of birth, mailing address, Social Security
number, copy of his or her driver’s license and or state ID with photo,
position and percentage of ownership of every corporate officer, director or
manager of every owner of the applicant’s business and any person who owns 5%
or more of the shares of the applicant;
      (6)   In case of a co-partnership, the date of the formation of the
partnership; in the case of an Illinois corporation, the date of its
incorporation; or in the case of a foreign corporation, the state where it was
incorporated and the date of its becoming qualified under the Business
Corporation Act of 1983, being 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq., to transact business in
the state;
      (7)   The number, date of issuance and the date of expiration of the
applicant’s current retail liquor dealer’s license;
      (8)   The name and address of the landlord if the premises of the
business are leased;
      (9)   The applicant’s current state liquor license number;
      (10)   The date the applicant began (will begin) liquor sales at his or
her place of business;
      (11)   The citizenship of the applicant;
      (12)   The address of the applicant’s warehouse if he or she warehouses
liquor;
      (13)   The applicant’s retailer’s occupation tax (ROT) registration
number;
      (14)   Whether the applicant has made a similar application for a state
or local liquor license for the premises described in the application, and the
disposition of such application;
      (15)   Whether the applicant has made a similar application for a state
or local liquor license for premises other than described in the application,
and the disposition of such application;
      (16)   Whether the applicant is delinquent in the payment of any taxes to
the village or state;
      (17)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony,
gambling offense, pandering or other offense opposed to decency or morality, or
is otherwise disqualified to receive a license by reason of any provision
contained in this chapter, the laws of the state or the village code, other
than minor traffic violations;
      (18)   Whether the applicant possesses a current federal wagering stamp;
      (19)   Whether a previous liquor license issued by any state or political
subdivision thereof or by the Federal Government has been suspended or revoked,
and the reasons therefor;
      (20)   Whether the applicant or manager of the applicant’s business is a
resident of the village and the length of time the applicant or manager has
resided within the village. An incorporated business’ applicant or manager
shall not be required to be a resident of the village, but the address and
length of time at their current address shall be listed on the applications;
      (21)   Whether the applicant, or any other person set forth in the
application or otherwise directly involved in the business which is the subject
of the application is a public official for any public or governmental body
and, if so, the particulars thereof;
      (22)   Whether the proposed licensed premises is located within 100 feet
of any church, school other than an institution of higher learning, hospital or
home for aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children as
defined in 235 ILCS 5/6-11; and
      (23)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state or the United States, or any provision of the village code in the
conduct of the applicant’s place of business.
   (C)   If the application is approved for a Class H license to be issued, the
Liquor Commissioner shall promptly notify the Chief of Police in writing of the
issuance of the Class H license. Such notice shall include a copy of said
license. The Chief will give the licensee the restrictions and guidelines for a
Class H license and will notify the Liquor Commissioner when the licensee has
agreed to the restrictions and guidelines for the license and then it can be
issued.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 113.21 CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS CHECK; EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   Upon the initial application for a retail liquor dealer’s license or
any renewal thereof, each applicant for a retail liquor dealer’s license shall
submit his or her fingerprints to the state’s Department of State Police in the
form and manner prescribed by the state’s Department of State Police. These
fingerprints shall be checked against the fingerprint records now and hereafter
filed in the state’s Department of State Police and Federal Bureau of
Investigation criminal history records databases. After receiving the criminal
history for the applicant from the state’s Department of State Police and
Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Local Liquor Control Commission may use
such information to determine whether the applicant qualifies for the issuance
or renewal of a retail liquor dealer’s license. The applicant shall pay a fee
to the Village Clerk, in an amount as determined by the state’s Department of
State Police, which shall be forwarded to the state’s Department of State
Police for the purposes of conducting a criminal history records check.
   (B)   At any time during the pendency of an application, the Local Liquor
Control Commission shall have the right to compel the applicant to submit to
any examination and to produce any books and records which, in the judgment of
the Local Liquor Control Commission, are material to the determination of
whether the applicant is qualified to receive a license under the provisions of
this chapter, or whether the premises sought to be licensed are suitable for
such purposes. The Local Liquor Control Commission shall also have the right to
require the applicant to answer any charges made in any objection to the
issuance of the license. The failure of any applicant to appear at the time and
place fixed by the Local Liquor Control Commission for his or her examination
or to produce books and records requested, unless for good cause shown, shall
be deemed to be an admission that the applicant is not qualified to receive a
license.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 113.22 BOND REQUIRED; FORFEITURE.
   Each person applying for a retail dealer’s liquor license under this
chapter, shall execute a penal bond in the sum of $1,500 with at least two
personal securities or a solvent surety company licensed to do business in the
state, to be approved by the Village Board. Said bond shall be filed with the
Village Clerk at the same time the application is presented, and shall be
conditioned upon the faithful observance by the licensee of the provisions of
this chapter and of the laws of the state and of the United States of America,
applying to the sale and possession of alcoholic liquor. Said bond shall be
refunded to the applicant if the application for a license is denied. If a
licensee shall be convicted of the violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter or the state’s Liquor Control Act of 1934, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et
seq., or his or her license shall be revoked and no appeal is taken from said
order of revocation or any appeal taken therefrom is decided adversely to the
licensee, said bond shall thereupon be forfeited to the village.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 113.23 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no retail liquor
dealer’s license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is the
keeper of a house of ill fame;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
      (5)   A person, agent or manager operating a business that is not a
corporation and is not a resident of the village;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon first application;
      (8)   A co-partnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any
limited partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate partner
interest in such co-partnership would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder;
      (9)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship;
      (10)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (11)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of the state’s Liquor Control Act of 1934, or who has
forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation;
      (12)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Any law enforcing public official, including members, if any, of a
Village Liquor Control Commission, the Village President or any Village
Trustee; and no such official shall be interested directly in the manufacture,
sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor; except that, a retail liquor dealer’s
license may be granted to any alderman or member of the Village Board if:
         (a)   The sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the license is
incidental to the selling of food;
         (b)   The issuance of the license is approved by the state’s Liquor
Control Commission;
         (c)   The issuance of the license is in accordance with all applicable
local ordinances; and
         (d)   The official granted a license does not vote on alcoholic liquor
issues pending before the Village Board.
      (14)   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state
retail liquor license;
      (15)   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or
consumption on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor
liability insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least
equal to the maximum liability amounts set out in § 6-21(a) of the state’s
Liquor Control Act of 1934, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., as amended;
      (16)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (17)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it
is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the state’s Business
Corporation Act of 1983, being 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq., to transact business in
the state;
      (18)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee;
      (19)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as
proscribed by any of § 23-1(a)(3) through (a)(11) of, or as proscribed by §§
28-1.1 or 28-3 of, the state’s Criminal Code of 2012, being 720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)
(3) through (a)(12) or 28-1.1 or 28-3, or as proscribed by a statute replaced
by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions; and
      (20)   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been
issued by the Federal Government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be
issued a license under the state’s Raffles and Poker Runs Act, being 230 ILCS
15/0.01 et seq., or the state’s Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act, being 230 ILCS 5/
1 et seq.
   (B)   A criminal conviction of a corporation is not grounds for the denial,
suspension or revocation of a license applied for or held by the corporation if
the criminal conviction was not the result of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
the offense that led to the conviction did not result in any financial gain to
the corporation and the corporation has terminated its relationship with each
director, officer, employee or controlling shareholder whose actions directly
contributed to the conviction of the corporation. The Local Liquor Control
Commission shall determine if all provisions of this section have been met
before any action on the corporation’s license is initiated.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 113.24 REVOCATION; SUSPENSION; FINES; NOTICE; HEARING.
   (A)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke or suspend any retail
liquor dealer’s license if the licensee or any of his or her agents or
employees:
      (1)   Commit any violation of federal law, this chapter, the state’s
Liquor Control Act of 1934, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., or any rules or
regulations established by the Local Liquor Control Commission or the state’s
Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   Willfully makes any false statement as to a material fact ir the
application for a retail liquor dealer’s license or a renewal thereof;
      (3)   Permits any disorderly conduct or immoral practices upon the
licensed premises;
      (4)   Permits any person other than the named licensee to create an
alcoholic liquor business under such license; or
      (5)   Fails to comply with the Building Code of the village.
   (B)   No retail liquor dealer’s license shall be revoked or suspended and no
licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the Local Liquor
Control Commission with a three-day written notice to the licensee affording
the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend the charges against him or
her. All hearings shall be open to the public, and the Local Liquor Control
Commission shall reduce all evidence to writing and shall maintain a certified
official record of the proceedings to be taken and prepared by a certified
court reporter or certified shorthand reporter. If the Local Liquor Control
Commission has reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular
licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community, it
may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for such
conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises closed
for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard
during that period; except that, if the licensee is also engaged in the conduct
of another business or businesses on the licensed premises such order shall not
be applicable to the other business or businesses. If the Local Liquor Control
Commission determines after the hearing that the license should be revoked or
suspended or that the licensee should be fined, he or she shall within five
days after the hearing state the reason or reasons for such determination in a
written order, and either the amount of the fine, the period of suspension or
that the license has been revoked, and shall serve a copy of such order within
the five days upon the licensee.
   (C)   The Local Liquor Commissioner may appoint a Deputy Commissioner to
serve in his or her absence with all the powers afforded the Liquor
Commissioner.
   (D)   (1)   The Local Liquor Control Commission may revoke or suspend any
license issued hereunder if it determines that the licensee has violated any of
the provisions of the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.) and/or Title 11
of the Ill. Adm. Code Subtitle D: Video Gaming, Chapter 1: Illinois Gaming
Board, part 1800 Video Gaming (General), as amended, incorporated by reference
in this chapter. No such license shall be revoked or suspended for more than 30
days and no license shall be fined, except after public hearing by the Local
Liquor Commission with a three-day written notice to the licensee affording the
licensee opportunity to appear and defend.
      (2)   If the Local Liquor Control Commission has reason to believe that
any continued operation of a particular licensed premises will in any way
threaten the welfare of the village, it may, upon the issuance of a written
order stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice or hearing,
order the licensed premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the
licensee opportunity to be heard during that period; except that, if such
licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses
on the licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other
business or businesses.
      (3)   The Local Liquor Control Commission shall, within five days after
such hearing, if it determines after such hearing that the license should be
revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason or
reasons for such determination in a written order, and either the amount of the
fine, the period of the suspension or that the license has been revoked, and
shall serve a copy of such order within the five days upon the licensee. The
licensee shall have the privilege, within a period of 20 days after receipt of
such order of fine, suspension or revocation, of appealing the order to the
state’s Liquor Control Commission and upon the filing of such an appeal by the
licensee, the state’s Liquor Commission shall determine the appeal upon the
certified record of proceedings of the Local Control Commission in accordance
with state law.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 13-102, passed 3-4-2013) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.25 COMPLAINT OF VIOLATION; HEARING.
   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the Local Liquor Control Commission stating that any person licensed under
the provisions of this chapter has been or is violating the provisions of this
chapter, the state’s Liquor Control Act of 1934, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.,
or any rules or regulations of the Local Liquor Control Commission or the
state’s Liquor Control Commission. Such complaint shall be in writing in the
form prescribed by the Local Liquor Control Commission and shall be signed and
sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular
provision, rule or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in
detail upon which belief is based. If the Local Liquor Control Commission is
satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation and that from
the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for such belief, he or she shall
set the matter for hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time
and place of such hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 113.26 APPEALS FROM ORDER OF LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, any order or action of the Local
Liquor Control Commission in levying a fine or refusing to levy a fine on a
licensee, granting or refusing to grant a license, revoking or suspending or
refusing to revoke or suspend a license or refusing for more than 30 days to
grant a hearing upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license may, within 20
days after notice of such order or action, be appealed by any resident of the
village or any person interested, to the state’s Liquor Control Commission in
accordance with state law and the Commission’s rules and regulations.
   (B)   In any case where a licensee appeals to the state’s Liquor Control
Commission from an order or action having the effect of suspending or revoking
a license, denying a renewal application or refusing to grant a license, the
licensee may resume the operation of the licensed business pending the decision
of the state Liquor Control Commission and the expiration of the time allowed
for an application for rehearing. If an application for rehearing is filed, the
licensee shall continue the operation of the licensed business until the denial
of the application or, if the rehearing is granted, until the decision on
rehearing. In any case in which a licensee appeals to the state’s Liquor
Control Commission a suspension or revocation that is the second or subsequent
suspension or revocation imposed on that licensee within the preceding 12-month
period, the licensee shall consider the suspension or revocation to be in
effect until a reversal of the Local Liquor Control Commission’s action has
been issued by the state’s Liquor Control Commission and shall cease all
activity otherwise authorized by the license.
   (C)   The appeal authorized by this section shall be limited to a review of
the official record of the proceedings of the Local Liquor Control Commission.
A certified official record of the proceedings taken and prepared by a
certified court reporter or certified shorthand reporter shall be filed by the
Local Liquor Control Commission within five days after notice of the filing of
such appeal, if the appellant licensee pays for the cost of the transcript.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 113.27 GRANTING LICENSES AFTER REVOCATION; WAITING PERIOD; DISCRETION
REVISIONS.
   (A)   When any retail liquor dealer’s license has been revoked for any
cause, no license shall be granted to any person for the period of one year
thereafter for the conduct of the business of selling alcoholic liquor in the
premises described in the revoked license unless the revocation order has been
vacated or unless the revocation order was entered as to the licensee only.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a retail liquor
dealer’s license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor incidental to a
restaurant if:
      (1)   The primary business of the restaurant consists of the sale of food
where the sale of liquor is incidental to the sale of food and the applicant is
a completely new owner of the restaurant;
      (2)   The immediately prior owner or operator of the premises where the
restaurant is located operated the premises as a restaurant and held a valid
retail liquor dealer’s license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor at the
restaurant for at least part of the 24 months before the change of ownership;
and
      (3)   The restaurant is located 100 feet or more feet from a school.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 113.28 CONFLICT WITH VILLAGE’S ADULT USE ORDINANCE.
   If any provision or provisions of this chapter are in conflict with like or
similar provisions of the village’s Adult Use Ordinance,
Ch. 111 of this village code, the provision or provisions set forth in the
Adult Use Ordinance shall control.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 113.40 SALE NEAR CHURCHES, SCHOOLS AND HOSPITALS.
   (A)   No retail dealer’s license shall be issued for the sale at retail of
any alcoholic liquor within 100 feet of any church, school other than an
institution of higher learning or hospital; provided that, this prohibition
shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly organized
clubs or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquors is not the principal business earned on; nor to the renewal of a
license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within 100 feet
of any church or school where the church or school has been established within
such 100 feet since the issuance of the original license. In the case of a
church or school, the distance of 100 feet shall be measured to the nearest
part of any building used for worship services or educational programs and not
to property boundaries.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a retail liquor
dealer’s license to a church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic
liquor if any such sales are limited to periods when groups are assembled on
the premises solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale
or consumption of alcoholic liquors.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 07-103, passed 6-4-2007) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-11
§ 113.41 STORES SELLING SCHOOL SUPPLIES, LUNCHES AND THE LIKE.
   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of the sale of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks
for such minors.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.42 VIOLATION OF TAX ACTS; REFUSAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   In addition to other grounds specified in this chapter, the Local
Liquor Control Commission, on complaint of the state’s Department of Revenue,
shall refuse the issuance or renewal of a retail liquor dealer’s license, or
suspend or revoke the license, of any person, for any of the following
violations of any tax act administered by the state’s Department of Revenue:
      (1)   Failure to make a tax return;
      (2)   The filing of a fraudulent return;
      (3)   Failure to pay all or part of any tax or penalty finally determined
to be due;
      (4)   Failure to keep books and records;
      (5)   Failure to secure and display a certificate or sub-certificates of
registration, if required; and
      (6)   Willful violation of any rule or regulation of the state’s
Department of Revenue relating to the administration and enforcement of tax
liability.
   (B)   Upon receiving notice from the state’s Department of Revenue that a
violation of any of divisions (A)(1) through (A)(6) above have been corrected
or otherwise resolved to the Department’s satisfaction, the Local Liquor
Control Commission may vacate an order of revocation.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 113.43 DURATION OF LICENSE; PRORATING FEE.
   All retail liquor dealer’s licenses shall be valid from the date and time
issued until one minute past 12:01 a.m. on the following April 30, unless
suspended or revoked sooner as provided for in this chapter. No license shall
be issued or valid for a term of longer than one year. The fee paid for a
license shall be reduced in proportion to the number of full calendar months
remaining until expiration of the license.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 113.44 PRIVILEGE GRANTED BY LICENSE; NATURE AS TO PROPERTY; LICENSE NOT
ALIENABLE OR TRANSFERABLE; TAX DELINQUENCIES; RENEWAL.
   (A)   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed
one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntary
or involuntarily, or subject to be encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall
cease upon the death of the licensee; provided that, executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor under order
of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or
insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license, but not longer
than six months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
   (B)   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof,
provided the licensee is then qualified at the time of renewal to receive a
license and the premises for which such renewal license is sought are suitable
for such purpose; and, provided further that, the renewal privilege herein
provided for shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case
prevent the Village Board from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued
within the village. No retail liquor dealer’s license shall be renewed unless
the applicant provides documentation that any tax owed to the village has been
satisfied by payment.
   (C)   All applications for the renewal of a retail liquor dealer’s license
shall be made in writing to the Local Liquor Control Commission at least 15
days prior to the date of expiration of said license. It shall not be necessary
for the licensee to file a full license application in order to obtain a
renewal of the license; provided that, the applicant shall submit an affidavit
stating that the information and statements contained in the original
application have not changed, and such affidavit shall be accompanied by the
required license fee.
   (D)   Any person who shall fail to make application for renewal and pay the
fee as herein provided shall be deemed to have forfeited and abandoned such
license, and no renewal thereof shall thereafter be permitted. Any such license
so forfeited or abandoned shall not be reissued, and any such person seeking
thereafter to procure a license shall be considered as a new applicant and
shall be subject to all limitations as to the number of licenses to be issued,
as heretofore provided.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to require the
Local Liquor Control Commission to renew a license when the total number of
licenses outstanding in a particular license classification exceeds those
permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 113.45 CHANGE IN STOCKHOLDERS.
   (A)   No corporate licensee shall permit any transfer of its stock which
would vest in aggregate more than 5% of the stock outstanding in said
corporation in any stockholder unless said stockholder has been previously
approved by the Local Liquor Control Commission. All requests for approval of
stockholders shall be in writing and under oath stating substantially the same
requisites as set forth in §
113.20 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Local Liquor Control Commission shall approve such transfer of
stock unless the proposed stockholder would be ineligible to receive a license
for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under this chapter for any reason other
than citizenship and residence within the village.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 113.46 SALE OF LICENSED BUSINESS.
   Upon application being filed as provided in §
113.20 of this chapter with the Village Clerk, and upon payment of all bonds,
criminal history record check fees and the applicable license fee, the Local
Liquor Control Commission may issue a retail liquor dealer’s license to the
purchaser of an established licensed business. Such application must be for
exactly the same class of license as that held by the seller and such
application shall be only for the same location as the previously licensed
business. The applicant shall attach to such application a statement containing
the facts in respect to his or her purchase of such business. Such application
shall be approved or denied as in the case of applications for original
licenses and, if approved, a retail liquor dealer’s license shall be issued to
such purchaser. No credit for any unused portion of the previous license, or
rebate for any unused portion of any license, shall be given. No retail liquor
dealer’s license shall be issued to the purchaser of such business until the
seller of such business has surrendered his or her license to the Village Clerk
for cancellation.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 113.47 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee immediately shall post a license issued in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises
and shall keep said license so posted during all times said license is in
force. The Local Liquor Control Commission shall provide a frame to be used by
the licensee for display of the license issued.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.48 DISPLAY OF BIRTH DEFECTS WARNING SIGNS.
   Every licensee, whether selling or offering for sale alcoholic liquor for
use or consumption on or off the licensed premises, shall cause a sign with the
message “Government Warning: According to the Surgeon General, Women Should Not
Drink Alcoholic Beverages During Pregnancy Because of the Risk of Birth
Defects” to be framed and hung in plain view on the licensed premises. The sign
shall be no larger than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches. Licensees may
obtain warning signs from the state’s Liquor Control Commission. The licensee
shall have 30 days from receipt of the warning sign to post it on the licensed
premises.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.49 DISPLAY OF SALE TO MINORS WARNING SIGNS.
   Every licensee, whether selling or offering for sale alcoholic liquor for
use or consumption on or off the licensed premises, shall cause a sign to be
displayed in a prominent place on the licensed premises which shall read as
follows:
 
WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY-ONE - You are subject to a fine of
up to SEVEN HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS ($750.00), under the ordinances of the
Village of Tremont, if you purchase alcoholic liquor, or misrepresent your age
for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor or are in
possession of alcoholic liquor. The first offense will be TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY
DOLLARS ($250.00). The second offense will be FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS (S500.00).
The third offense will be SEVEN HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS ($750.00).
 
WARNING TO ADULT PATRONS - You are subject to a fine of Seven Hundred and Fifty
Dollars ($750.00), under the ordinance of the Village of TREMONT, if you
purchase alcoholic liquor for delivery to or use by any person under the age of
twenty-one.
 
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.50 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed premises to sell or offer for
sale at retail any alcoholic beverage, except for during the hours designated:
      (1)   Monday through Thursday: from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. (midnight);
      (2)   Friday and Saturday: from 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.;
      (3)   Sunday: from 12:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. (midnight); and
       (4)   From midnight on December 31 of each year to 1:00am on the
following January 1, licensed premises may sell or offer for sale at retail
alcoholic beverages; and licensed premises may remain open, with no the sales
of alcoholic beverages, until 2:00am on January 1.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the village code to the
contrary, sales of alcoholic liquor in original packages for consumption off
the premises described in the license shall be permitted from 8:00 a.m. to
midnight on each day of the week.
   (C)   On the last Sunday in October, or on any other date specified by the
state as a return to United States Central Standard Time, it shall be unlawful
for any person to whom a retail liquor dealer’s license has been issued to sell
or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor in the village during the
hours of 1:00 a.m. Central Standard Time and 12:00 a.m.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or to permit the public
to patronize any premises where alcoholic liquor is sold at retail during the
hours within which the sale of such liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   The time for closing as set forth in this section shall be marked by:
      (1)   The ceasing of all service at the bar of any alcoholic liquor;
      (2)   The ceasing of all service at the tables of any alcoholic liquor;
      (3)   The extinguishing of all electrical signs and decorative outdoor
lights;
      (4)   The locking of the whole of such premises with respect to which a
retail liquor dealer’s license has been issued hereunder;
      (5)   The vacating of all patrons of said premises within 15 minutes
thereafter, whether alcoholic liquor or food is being consumed, or not;
provided, however, that, this division (E)(5) shall not apply to the owner,
manager, bartender, employees or watchmen; provided further that, such persons
so remaining do not consume any alcoholic liquor whatsoever.
   (F)   The premises of duly licensed restaurants may be kept open during such
hours; provided that, the following activities shall cease during the hours
within which the sale of alcoholic liquor is prohibited:
      (1)   All service at the bar of any alcoholic liquor;
      (2)   All service at tables of any alcoholic liquor; and
      (3)   All consumption by any person of any alcoholic liquor upon such
licensed premises within 15 minutes thereafter.
   (G)   The Local Liquor Control Commission, with the consent of the Village
Board, is hereby authorized to extend until 3:00 a.m. the closing hours on New
Year’s Day for premises licensed to sell alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises. During such extended hours, only the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises shall be permitted. No patrons will be allowed
admittance between 2:00 a.m. and 3:00 a.m.
   (H)    All locations in the village that sell or offer for sale at retail
any alcoholic liquor, having an appropriate retail liquor dealer’s license, in
good standing with the State of Illinois and the Village Liquor Control
Commissioner, will be permitted to begin serving alcoholic beverages and
selling package liquor at 8:00 a.m. each day of the week.
   (I)   This section shall apply to all of the premises licensed. Hours
specified herein shall mean either Central Standard Time or Cental Daylight
Savings Time, whichever is being observed within the village.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 23-107, passed 3-6-2023; Ord. 24-104,
passed 3-4-2024)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.51 EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier
of, any infectious or communicable disease, contained in the list of infectious
and communicable diseases published annually by the U.S. Secretary of Health
and Human Services, in a capacity in which such person may transmit the
infectious or communicable disease through the handling, preparation or
distribution of food or alcoholic liquor; and it shall be unlawful for any
person who is afflicted with, or a carrier of, any such disease to work in a
capacity where the disease may be transmitted through the handling, preparation
or distribution of food or liquor.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, it shall be unlawful to
permit any person under the age of 21 to serve, mix, dispense or sell alcoholic
liquor or to be otherwise involved in the handling of such alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   Holders of a Class E or F retail liquor dealer’s license may employ
18, 19 and 20 year old persons to sell or serve alcoholic liquor to patrons if
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The primary duties of the 18, 19 and 20 year old persons are the
serving of food and the servicing of patrons seated at tables;
      (2)   The service of alcoholic liquor is incidental to the service of
food to patrons;
      (3)   Service is not at a counter primarily used for serving drinks
(i.e., bar);
      (4)   Eighteen, 19 and 20 year old employees do not mix or prepare
alcoholic drinks; and
      (5)   The licensed premises are, at all times, under the control of
either the licensee or an adult agent or employee of the licensee. To be in
control of the premises, an adult possessing those responsibilities and duties
normally associated with a manager must be present on the premises.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as allowing any licensee
issued a Class F retail liquor dealer’s license, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee to serve alcoholic
liquor other than beer or wine within the licensed premises.
   (E)   Every server of alcoholic beverages employed by a business that holds
a village liquor license under a code classification of Class A, B, E, F, G or
H of §
113.17 of this code of ordinances, shall first obtain from a state-certified
training facility, a certificate of training in full compliance with what is
commonly known as the “Server’s Basset Training Course” mandated by 235 ILCS 5/
6-27.1. Any employee who serves alcoholic beverages in violation of this
division (E) shall constitute a violation under the village’s Liquor Code.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 17-105, passed 6-5-2017) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.52 BOOKS AND RECORDS AVAILABLE FOR INVESTIGATION AND CONTROL;
MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every licensee to make books and records
available upon reasonable notice for the purpose of investigation and control
by the state’s Liquor Control Commission or the Local Liquor Control
Commission.
   (B)   Such books and records need not be maintained on the licensed
premises, but must be maintained in the state; however, if access is available
electronically, the books and records may be maintained out of state. However,
all original invoices or copies thereof covering purchases of alcoholic liquor
must be retained on the licensed premises for a period of 90 days after such
purchase, unless the state’s Liquor Control Commission has granted a waiver in
response to a written request in cases where records are kept at a central
business location within the state or in cases where books and records that are
available electronically are maintained out of state.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.53 VIEW FROM STREET; LIGHTING; POSTING PRICES.
   (A)   Except for restaurants, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article
or thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of, nor inside of,
premises licensed under this chapter for the consumption of alcoholic liquor on
such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such
licensed premises from the street or sidewalk at all times. All rooms where
liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall be continuously lighted
during business hours by natural or artificial white light so that all parts of
the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible. All licensees shall
maintain a schedule of the prices charged for all drinks of alcoholic liquor to
be served and consumed on the licensed premises or in any room or part thereof.
   (B)   Prices of alcoholic liquor shall not be posted or displayed in, upon
or adjacent to windows or on the exterior of, or on any property adjacent to,
any premises for which has been issued a license authorizing the consumption of
alcoholic beverages on such premises.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.54 CIVIL RIGHTS IN LICENSED PREMISES.
   No licensee shall deny or permit his or her agents and employees to deny any
person the full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages,
facilities and privileges of any premises in which alcoholic liquor is
authorized to be sold subject only to the conditions and limitations
established by law and applicable alike to all citizens.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.55 PROHIBITED ENTRY TO A LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   No licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of a licensee shall permit any person under the age of 21 years to
enter and remain in that portion of a licensed premises that sells, gives or
delivers alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises. This section does
not apply to any licensed premises, such as a restaurant, club or grocery store
where the selling, giving or delivering of alcoholic liquor is not the
principal business of the licensee at those premises.
   (B)   (1)   Proof that a licensee, or his or her employee or agent,
demanded, was shown and reasonably relied upon adequate written evidence (as
defined in § 113.56(A)(2) of this chapter) for purposes of entering and
remaining on the licensed premises is an affirmative defense in any criminal
prosecution therefor or to any proceedings for the suspension or revocation of
any license based thereon. It shall not, however, be an affirmative defense if
the licensee, or his or her agent or employee, accepted the written evidence
knowing it to be false or fraudulent.
      (2)   If a false or fraudulent driver’s license or identification card is
presented by a person less than 21 years of age to a licensee or the licensee’s
agent or employee for the purpose of obtaining entry and remaining on a
licensed premises, the law enforcement officer or agency investigating the
incident shall, upon the conviction of the person who presented the fraudulent
license or identification, make a report of the matter to the Secretary of
State on a form provided by the Secretary of State.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.56 PROHIBITED SALES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, it shall be unlawful for any
licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee
of such licensee to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under
the age of 21 years or to any intoxicated person. No person, after purchasing
or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver such
alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years, except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service. If a licensee or officer,
associate, agent or employee of the licensee is prosecuted under this division
(A), for selling, giving or delivering alcoholic liquor to a person under the
age of 21 years, the person under 21 years of age who attempted to buy or
receive the alcoholic liquor may be prosecuted pursuant to §
113.57 of this chapter, unless the person under 21 years of age was acting
under the authority of a law enforcement agency, the state’s Liquor Control
Commission or the Local Liquor Control Commission pursuant to a plan or action
to investigate, patrol or conduct any similar enforcement action.
      (1)   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any
licensee, or his or her agent or employee shall refuse to sell, deliver or
serve alcoholic beverages to any person who is unable to produce adequate
written evidence of identity and of the fact that he or she is over the age of
21 years, if requested by the licensee, agent, employee or representative.
      (2)   However, no agent or employee of the licensee shall be disciplined
or discharged for selling or furnishing liquor to a person under 21 years of
age if the agent or employee demanded and was shown, before furnishing liquor
to a person under 21 years of age, adequate written evidence of age and
identity of the person issued by a federal, state, county or village
government, or subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a
motor vehicle operator’s license, a registration certificate issued under the
Federal Selective Service Act, being 50 U.S.C. §§ 3801 et seq., or an
identification card issued to a member of the Armed Forces. This division (A)
(2), however, shall not apply if the agent or employee accepted the written
evidence knowing it to be false or fraudulent.
      (3)   Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person is a
document issued by a federal, state, county or village government, or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator’s license, a registration certificate issued under the Federal
Selective Service Act, or an identification card issued to a member of the
Armed Forces. Proof that the defendant-licensee, or his or her employee or
agent demanded, was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in
any transaction forbidden by this section is an affirmative defense in any
criminal prosecution therefor or to any proceedings for the suspension or
revocation of any license based thereon. It shall not, however, be an
affirmative defense if the agent or employee accepted the written evidence
knowing it to be false or fraudulent. If a false or fraudulent driver’s license
or identification card is presented by a person less than 21 years of age to a
licensee or the licensee’s agent or employee for the purpose of ordering,
purchasing, attempting to purchase or otherwise obtaining or attempting to
obtain the serving of any alcoholic beverage, the law enforcement officer or
agency investigating the incident shall, upon the conviction of the person who
presented the fraudulent license or identification, make a report of the matter
to the Secretary of State on a form provided by the Secretary of State.
      (4)   A licensee or an officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of a licensee may sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to a
person under the age of 21 years or authorize the sale, gift or delivery of
alcoholic liquor to a person under the age of 21 years pursuant to a plan or
action to investigate, patrol or otherwise conduct a “sting operation” or
enforcement action against a person employed by the licensee or on any licensed
premises if the licensee or officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of the licensee provides written notice, at least 14 days before
the “sting operation” or enforcement action to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner. Notice provided under this section shall be valid for a “sting
operation” or enforcement action conducted within 60 days of the provision of
that notice.
   (B)   The Local Liquor Control Commission shall review the model policy and
guidelines for the operation of alcohol compliance checks developed by the
state’s Law Enforcement Training Standards Board and shall establish a policy
and standards for alcohol compliance operations to investigate whether a
licensee is furnishing alcoholic liquor to persons under 21 years of age in
violation of this chapter. All supervising officers of such compliance checks
shall have met the minimum training standards as determined by the state’s Law
Enforcement Training Standards Board.
   (C)   A licensee who is the subject of an enforcement action or “sting
operation” under this section and who is found to be in compliance with this
chapter shall be notified by the law enforcement agency conducting the
enforcement action or “sting operation” that no violation was found within 30
days after such finding has been made.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.57 PURCHASE, ACCEPTANCE OF GIFT, CONSUMPTION OR POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC
LIQUOR BY PERSONS UNDER 21; IDENTIFICATION CARDS; OTHER PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor, or consume or have alcoholic
liquor in his or her possession. If a licensee or his or her agents or
employees believes or has reason to believe that a sale or delivery of any
alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the age of the prospective recipient,
he or she shall, before making such sale or delivery demand presentation of
some form of positive identification containing proof of age. This division (A)
does not apply to possession by a person under the age of 21 years making a
delivery of alcoholic liquor in pursuance of the order of his or her parent.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish to any
person under the age of 21 years any false or fraudulent written, printed or
photostatic evidence of the age and identity of such person, or sell, give or
furnish to any person under the age of 21 years evidence of age and
identification of any other person.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to transfer, alter or deface an identification
card or obtain an identification card by means of false information. It shall
be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to possess any written,
printed or photostatic evidence of age and identity that is false, fraudulent
or not actually his or her own. It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of 21 years to present or offer to any licensee, his or her agent or
employee, any written, printed or photostatic evidence of age and identity that
is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own for the purpose of
ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase or otherwise procuring or
attempting to procure, the serving of any alcoholic beverage.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit his or her
residence to be used by an invitee of the parent’s child or the guardian’s
ward, if the invitee is under the age of 21, in a manner that constitutes a
violation of this section. A parent or guardian is deemed to have permitted his
or her residence to be used in violation of this division (D) if he or she
knowingly authorizes, enables or permits such use to occur by failing to
control access to either the residence or the alcoholic liquor maintained in
the residence.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent a hotel or motel room from
the proprietor or agent thereof for the purpose of or with the knowledge that
such room shall be used for the consumption of alcoholic liquor by persons
under the age of 21 years.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have alcoholic liquor in his or
her possession on public school district property on school days or at events
on public school district property when children are present, unless the
alcoholic liquor:
      (1)   Is in the original container with the seal unbroken and is in the
possession of a person who is not otherwise legally prohibited from possessing
the alcoholic liquor; or
      (2)   Is in the possession of a person in or for the performance of a
religious service or ceremony authorized by the school board.
   (G)   The possession and dispensing or consumption by a person under 21
years of age of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or
ceremony, or the consumption by a person under 21 years of age under the direct
supervision and approval of the parents or parent or those persons standing in
loco parentis of such person under 21 years of age in the privacy of a home, is
not prohibited by this section.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.58 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give or deliver alcoholic
liquor or any product containing alcoholic liquor, door to door or at any
location other than a location for which the sale of alcoholic liquor is
permitted in accordance with this chapter, within the corporate limits of the
village.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.59 HAPPY HOURS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No licensee or employee or agent of such licensee shall:
      (1)   Serve two or more drinks of alcoholic liquor at one time to one
person for consumption by that one person, except for product sampling pursuant
to §
113.60 of this chapter or the selling or delivering of wine by the bottle or
carafe;
      (2)   Sell, offer to sell or serve to any person an unlimited number of
drinks of alcoholic liquor during any set period of time for a fixed price,
except at private functions not open to the general public;
      (3)   Sell, offer to sell or serve any drink of alcoholic liquor to any
person on any one date at a reduced price other than that charged other
purchasers of drinks on that day where such reduced price is a promotion to
encourage consumption of alcoholic liquor, except as authorized in division (B)
(7) below;
      (4)   Increase the volume of alcoholic liquor contained in a drink, or
the size of a drink of alcoholic liquor, without increasing proportionately the
price regularly charged for the drink on that day;
      (5)   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or contest
which involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding of drinks of alcoholic
liquor as prizes for such game or contest on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   Advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off the licensed
premises, any of the practices prohibited under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) above shall be construed to prohibit a
licensee from:
      (1)   Offering free food or entertainment at any time;
      (2)   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a meal package;
      (3)   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a hotel package;
      (4)   Negotiating drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a contract
between a hotel or multi-use establishment and another group for the holding of
any function, meeting, convention or trade show;
      (5)   Providing room service to persons renting rooms at a hotel;
      (6)   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent, including, but not limited to,
buckets), carafes or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are customarily sold in
such manner and delivered to two or more persons at one time; or
      (7)   Increasing prices of drinks of alcoholic liquor in lieu of, in
whole or in part, a cover charge to offset the cost of special entertainment
not regularly scheduled.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be grounds for suspension or
revocation of a retail liquor dealer’s license as provided by this section.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.60 PRODUCT SAMPLING.
   (A)   Licensees may conduct product sampling for consumption at a licensed
premises. Up to three samples, consisting of no more than one-fourth ounce of
distilled spirits, one ounce of wine or two ounces of beer may be served to a
consumer in one day.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, an on-
premises retail licensee may offer for sale and serve more than one drink per
person for sampling purposes without violating §
113.59(A)(1) or (B)(6) of this chapter; provided, the total quantity of the
sampling package, regardless of the number of containers in which the alcoholic
liquor is being served, does not exceed one ounce of distilled spirits, four
ounces of wine or 16 ounces of beer.
      (2)   In any event, all provisions of §
113.59 of this chapter shall apply to an on-premises retail licensee that
conducts product sampling.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.61 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES WHERE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IS OFFERED FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or person acting as agent, servant or
employee of such licensee to provide, suffer or permit any act, conduct or
entertainment on the premises in such a manner as to expose to public view:
   (A)   Male or female genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region
or pubic hair region;
   (B)   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof;
   (C)   Any device, film, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the above listed body parts;
   (D)   The use of tassels, pasties, stars or transparent material for
coverage of the listed body parts;
   (E)   Sexual intercourse, any penetration of the female sex organ by the
male sex organ, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, cunnilingus, analingus,
fellatio, flagellation, sadomasochism or any other sexual acts prohibited by
law;
   (F)   The touching, caressing or fondling of the breast, buttock, anus,
genitals, perineum or pubic hair region;
   (G)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities
set forth above; and/or
   (H)   The displaying of films or pictures or similar reproductions or
technology depicting acts set forth in divisions (A) through (G) above.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.62 GAMBLING; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No gambling shall be permitted and no gambling device shall be kept in any
premises licensed hereunder. No riotous, disorderly, indecent or offensive
conduct of any kind shall be allowed in or about said premises.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.63 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to frequent or loiter within any
premises licensed under this chapter with the purpose of soliciting any patron
or customer therein to purchase any alcoholic or non- alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.64 CURB SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   No curb service for the sale of alcoholic liquor shall be carried on with
respect to premises for which a Class A, C, E or F retail liquor dealer’s
license has been issued, either upon the public street or private property
contiguous to such licensed premises.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.65 SAFETY PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A licensee issued a Class A, C, E, F, G or H license under the
provisions of this chapter may not permit the use of any pyrotechnic device
within its licensed premises without the prior authorization of the state’s
Fire Marshal. Nor may such licensee, or any agent or employee of such licensee,
use mace, pepper spray or any other toxic air-released compound within its
licensed premises.
   (B)   No person may impede any person who is attempting to exit the premises
of a licensee due to an emergency that constitutes a threat to the health or
safety of persons within the licensed premises. For the purpose of this
section, the term “impede a person who is attempting to exit” includes
physically restraining the person or blocking or locking an exit while the
licensed premises is open to the public.
   (C)   (1)   All persons issued a Class A, C, E, F, G or H license under the
provisions of this chapter with an authorized capacity:
         (a)   Of at least 250 persons;
         (b)   Set by the state’s Fire Marshal; or
         (c)   Set by local ordinance, whichever is lowest, must place a panic
bar on each exit of the licensed premises.
      (2)   All persons issued a Class A, C, E, F, G or H license under the
provisions of this chapter with an authorized capacity of at least 500 persons
that conducts live entertainment within its licensed premises must, before the
commencement of the live entertainment, make an announcement to the patrons of
the licensed premises that generally informs those patrons of the locations of
exits and fire escapes at the licensed premises.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.66 REPORTING INCIDENTS TO POLICE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or his or her agents or
employees, to fail to immediately notify the village’s Police Department of any
incident occurring on or about the licensed premises, including the parking lot
for such licensed premises, which, in his or her knowledge or view, relates to
the commission of any crime including any violation of this chapter. It shall
also be unlawful to fail to immediately notify the village’s Police Department
of any disturbance, argument, fight or other tumultuous conduct occurring on or
about the licensed premises.
   (B)   Each licensee and each of his or her agents or employees shall
truthfully and fully answer all questions and investigations of any identified
police officer who makes inquiry concerning any persons in or about the
licensed premises and any events taking place in or about the licensed
premises, and cooperate fully in any investigation including the giving of any
oral or written statements at such reasonable times and in such reasonable
locations to any police officer engaged in said investigation.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.67 ACCESS FROM LICENSED PREMISES TO DWELLING QUARTERS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which has any access that leads from the premises to
any other portion of the same building or structure used for dwelling or
lodging and which is permitted to be used or kept accessible for use by the
public. This provision shall not prevent any connection between the premises
and such other potion of the building or structure which is used only by the
licensee, his or her family and personal guests.
(Ord. 06-101, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 114: AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
Section
Amusements
   
114.001   Application of provisions
   
114.002   License required
   
114.003   Street shows
   
114.004   Athletic exhibitions
   
114.005   Audience to be orderly; gathering of crowds
   
114.006   Inspection of exhibition, amusement and the like
   
114.007   Smoking prohibited
   
114.008   Signs
   
114.009   Exit lights
Coin-Operated Amusement Devices
   
114.020   Definitions
   
114.021   License required
   
114.022   License fee
   
114.023   Application for license; non-transference
   
114.024   Number of devices
   
114.025   Evidence of ownership to be filed with Village Clerk
   
114.026   Persons under 16 years of age not to be permitted to play
   
114.027   Gambling devices
   
114.028   Possession of gambling devices prohibited
Billiard and Pool Halls
   
114.040   License required
   
114.041   Fees
Bowling Alleys
   
114.055   License required
   
114.056   Fee
AMUSEMENTS
§ 114.001 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter, except as to licensing and fees, shall
apply to all public shows, theatricals, circuses and other amusements in the
village whether specifically licensed in another chapter hereof.
(Prior Code, § 114.01)
§ 114.002 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any amusement which
is open to the public and for admission to which a fee is charged without
having first secured a license therefor; except that, motion pictures and
theatricals are specifically exempted from licensing.
      (2)   However, the provisions of this section shall not be held to apply
to those amusements which are specifically licensed by any other section or
chapter in this code.
   (B)   (1)   Application for such licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk
and shall comply with the general provisions relating to such application.
      (2)   The fee for such license shall be in the amount shown of the fee
schedule of the village.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.003 STREET SHOWS.
   No permit shall be granted for any carnival, circus, exhibition show or
other amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk or in such a place
that the only main accommodation for the public or the audience will be in a
public place, except on order of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.004 ATHLETIC EXHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct, operate or exhibit any race between
persons, animals or vehicles, or any baseball games, boxing or wrestling
matches or any other athletic contest or exhibition for admission to which a
fee is charged without the approval of the Village Board, except such events as
may be conducted by duly accredited schools.
(Prior Code, § 114.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.005 AUDIENCE TO BE ORDERLY; GATHERING OF CROWDS.
   The audience of any amusement, show or theatrical must be orderly and quiet
at all times, and it shall be unlawful for any person attending such amusement,
show or theatrical to create a disturbance in the audience. It shall be
unlawful to permit or gather such a crowd to witness any amusement or show so
as to create a dangerous condition because of fire or other risks.
(Prior Code, § 114.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.006 INSPECTION OF EXHIBITION, AMUSEMENT AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to see that every exhibition,
amusement, theatrical or other public show or amusement is inspected by a
member of the Police Department and to ensure conformity with the provisions
concerning such amusements.
(Prior Code, § 114.06)
§ 114.007 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to smoke or carry a lighted cigar, cigarette or pipe
beneath the stage or in a dressing room of any building used as an assembly
hall with seating accommodations for more than 100 persons or in which
theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures or other entertainments are offered,
operated, presented or exhibited.
(Prior Code, § 114.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.008 SIGNS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of such premises or the occupant in charge
to provide and place printed signs on which the words “No Smoking” shall appear
in letters at least four inches high, in conspicuous places, at least two such
signs being upon the stage or in the wings thereof and in each dressing room.
(Prior Code, § 114.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.009 EXIT LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant in charge of any building or
hall used as an assembly hall with accommodations for 100 persons or more in
which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures and other entertainments is
offered, operated or presented to provide and place a sign, on which the word
“Exit” shall appear in letters at least six inches high, over every door or
other opening from such hall to every means of egress therefrom and a light
shall be provided with a red globe and placed at or over such sign, which light
shall be kept burning during the entire period that the hall is open to the
public and until the audience has left the hall.
(Prior Code, § 114.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 114.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any amusement machine or device operated by
means of the insertion of a coin, token or similar object, for the purpose of
amusement or skill and for the playing of which a fee is charged. The term
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE does not include vending machines in which are
not incorporated gaming or amusement features, nor does the term include any
coin-operated mechanical musical devices.
   OPERATOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or association who sets
up for operation by another or leases or distributes for the purpose of
operation by another, any device as herein defined, whether such setting up for
operation, leasing or distributing be for a fixed charge or rental, or on the
basis of a division of the income derived from such device, or otherwise.
   PROPRIETOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or club
who, as the owner, lessee or proprietor has under his, her or its control any
establishment, place or premises in or at which such device is placed or kept
for use or play, or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play.
(Prior Code, § 114.20)
§ 114.021 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of an operator
or proprietor of coin- operated amusement devices, as the terms are herein
defined, without first having obtained the proper license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 114.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.022 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Operator’s license fee. The license fee for each operator shall be in
an amount to be determined by the Village Board. All operators’ license fees
shall be payable annually in advance; provided that, where application is made
after the expiration of any portion of any license year a license may be issued
for the remainder thereof upon payment of a proportionate part of the annual
fee. In no case shall any portion of the license fee be refunded to the
licensee.
   (B)   Proprietor’s license fee. The license fee for each proprietor, as
herein defined, shall be annual, in an amount to be determined by the Village
Board for each device used or played, or exhibited for use or play. All
proprietors’ license fees shall be payable annually in advance; provided that,
where application is made after the expiration of any portion of any license
year a license may be issued for the remainder thereof upon payment of a
proportionate part of the annual fee. In no case shall any portion of the
license fee be repaid to the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 114.22)
§ 114.023 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; NON-TRANSFERENCE.
   (A)   Application for license hereunder shall be filed in writing with the
Village Clerk, on a form to be provided by the village, and shall specify:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant and, if a firm, corporation,
partnership or association, the principal officers thereof and their addresses;
      (2)   The address of the premises where the licensed device or devices
are to be operated, together with the character of the business as carried on
at such place;
      (3)   The trade name and general description of the device or devices to
be licensed, the name of the manufacturer and the serial number and, if the
applicant is a proprietor, the number of devices to be licensed; and
      (4)   The name and address of the operator of the device or devices, if
other than the proprietor.
   (B)   (1)   The proper license fee shall accompany such application.
Application for license hereunder shall be first referred by the Village Clerk
to the President and Board of Trustees who shall make or cause to be made such
investigation as they deem necessary. If the application is approved by the
President and Board of Trustees, the license shall be issued by the Clerk, and
the Clerk shall remit the fee to the Village Treasurer. If the license is
denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant. All licenses under this
subchapter shall expire on April 30 following their issuance. The license shall
be posted in a conspicuous place in the establishment of the licensee.
      (2)   Such license shall be non-assignable and non-transferable and, in
the case of a proprietor, shall apply only to the premises for which such
license is issued.
(Prior Code, § 114.23)
§ 114.024 NUMBER OF DEVICES.
   In case a proprietor licensed under the provisions of this subchapter
desires, after the expiration of any portion of any license year, to increase
the number of devices to be used or played, or exhibited for use or play in his
or her establishment, he or she shall surrender his or her license to the
Village Clerk who shall issue a new license showing the number of devices
licensed thereunder, upon payment of the proper license fee therefor.
(Prior Code, § 114.24)
§ 114.025 EVIDENCE OF OWNERSHIP TO BE FILED WITH VILLAGE CLERK.
   Any proprietor who owns such device or devices at the time this chapter
becomes effective shall file with the Village Clerk evidence of such ownership
prior to the issuance of a license; and any proprietor purchasing a device or
devices after the effective date of this subchapter shall file with the Village
Clerk evidence of ownership thereof before exhibiting or placing the device or
devices for use or play.
(Prior Code, § 114.25)
§ 114.026 PERSONS UNDER 16 YEARS OF AGE NOT TO BE PERMITTED TO PLAY.
   No proprietor shall permit or allow any person under the age of 16 years to
operate or play any coin- operated amusement device, as defined herein, during
the hours in which the village’s public schools are in session.
(Prior Code, § 114.26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.027 GAMBLING DEVICES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall in any way be construed to authorize,
license or permit any gambling devices whatsoever or any mechanism that has
been judicially determined to be a gambling device.
(Prior Code, § 114.27)
§ 114.028 POSSESSION OF GAMBLING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   Except for video gaming terminals licensed under the Illinois Video Gaming
Act (230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.), it shall be unlawful for any person to keep or use
in any place within the village any coin-operated mechanical device for which
there has been purchased a coin-operated gambling device special tax stamp,
issued by the Internal Revenue authorities of the United States Government.
(Prior Code, § 114.28) Penalty, see §
10.99
BILLIARD AND POOL HALLS
§ 114.040 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate, maintain or conduct a
billiard, pool or bagatelle or pigeonhole table open to the public without
having first obtained a license therefor as is herein required. All
applications for such licenses shall state thereon the intended location of the
place of business and the number of tables to be used therein.
(Prior Code, § 114.40) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.041 FEES.
   The annual fee for such license shall be in an amount to be determined by
the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 114.41) (Ord. 81-105, passed 11-9-1981)
BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 114.055 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or maintain a bowling alley
open to the public without having first secured a license therefor as is herein
required. Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk and
shall be in writing and state thereon the intended location of the place of
business and the number of alleys to be used.
(Prior Code, § 114.50) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.056 FEE.
   The annual fee for such licenses shall be charged for each alley, in an
amount to be determined by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 114.51)
CHAPTER 115: JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
115.01   License required
   
115.02   Applications
   
115.03   Fee
   
115.04   Stolen goods
   
115.05   Vehicles to bear information
   
115.06   Location; frontage consents
   
115.07   Records to be kept
   
115.08   Purchase restrictions
   
115.09   Sales
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or carry on the business of junk dealer or
to keep any junk shop, store or place for the purchase or sale of junk, rags,
old rope, paper or bagging, old iron, brass, copper or empty bottles, without
having obtained a license therefor as is hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.02 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for such licenses shall be made in conformance with the
provisions of this code relating to licenses.
(Prior Code, § 115.02)
§ 115.03 FEE.
   The fee to be paid for such licenses, for an annual license, shall be in an
amount to be determined by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 115.03)
§ 115.04 STOLEN GOODS.
   Every keeper of a junk shop, who shall receive or be in possession of any
goods, articles or things of value which may have been lost or stolen, shall
upon demand produce such articles or thing to any member of the Police
Department for examination.
(Prior Code, § 115.04)
§ 115.05 VEHICLES TO BEAR INFORMATION.
   Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his or her business
shall bear thereon, in legible characters, the name and address of the owner
and proprietor thereof and the village license number.
(Prior Code, § 115.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.06 LOCATION; FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   (A)   No person shall locate, build, construct, operate or maintain any
junkyard in any block in the village where two-thirds of the houses abutting on
both sides of the street in the block are used exclusively for residence
purposes without having first secured the written consent of the owners of two-
thirds of the frontage abutting on such street on both sides within such block.
   (B)   The term BLOCK, as used in this section, shall be construed to mean
and include that portion of the street between the two intersections with other
public streets nearest the specified location on each side; provided that, if,
on either or both sides of such location, there is no such intersection within
300 feet of the center of the specified location, the block shall be considered
as terminating at a point 300 feet from such center.
   (C)   The term STREET, as used in this section, shall be construed to mean
and include such highways as have been dedicated by either common law or
statutory dedication as public streets and are actually in use as such; and
term STREET shall not be construed to include or mean service highways which
are commonly known as alleys.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be taken to be in repeal of or
in conflict with the Zoning Code set forth in Ch. 153 of this village code.
(Prior Code, § 115.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.07 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   It shall be the duty of each junk dealer to keep a book in which shall be
written at the time of every purchase by him or her of any article or thing of
value, a description thereof, the name, age and residence of the person from
whom, and the day and hour when such purchase was made, and there shall also be
entered in the book the name of the person to whom and the time when such
article or thing of value was sold or disposed of. The book shall be at all
times open to the inspection of the President, the Chief of Police or any
member of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 115.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.08 PURCHASE RESTRICTIONS.
   No purchases shall be made or any articles or things of value received from
any intoxicated person or from any minor without having obtained the written
consent of the parent or guardian of such minor.
(Prior Code, § 115.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.09 SALES.
   No article or thing of value purchased or received by any junk dealer shall
be sold or otherwise disposed of until at least one week from the date of its
purchase or receipt shall have elapsed.
(Prior Code, § 115.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 116: PARKING LOTS; GARAGES
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Permit required
   
116.03   Frontage consents
   
116.04   Fees
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKING LOT OR GARAGE. Any real estate used for the parking or storing of
automobiles, trucks, trailers, transport trucks and transport trailers and any
and all automotive vehicles which come within the purview of this chapter,
whether the same is used for the parking of the vehicles which may be owned by
other persons or whether the vehicles are or may be owned or operated by the
person owning the real estate or operating the parking lot or garage, and which
shall specifically include transport trucks used in the conveyance of gasoline,
oil or any combustible material even though the transport trucks may be owned
by the person who so operates them and who also owns the PARKING LOT OR GARAGE
or any real estate upon which the same may be parked or stored, it being the
intention and purpose hereof that no automobiles, trucks or transport trucks of
any kind or character shall be stored or parked within the village by any
person without the authority from and permit of the Board of Trustees. However,
these provisions shall not apply to private passenger automobiles or private
trucks which may be stored or parked in or residence property in the village.
   RESIDENCE PROPERTY. The home or homes of residents in the village. These
provisions shall not apply to persons who are now parking or storing the types
of vehicles at present locations, but such persons shall not park or store the
same on any new locations even though the same may be on property now owned by
such persons, and shall not so park or store the same on any part or parts of
property now owned by such persons upon which they have not been so parking or
storing the same even though the property may adjoin property so owned by them
and, upon which, they have been so parking and storing the same, it being the
intention that such persons shall only be allowed to continue to store and park
such types of vehicles at their exact present locations and not upon any other
or additional property owned by such persons, even though the other or
additional property is adjacent to property now owned by such person and now
being so used.
(Prior Code, § 116.01)
§ 116.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, locate or conduct a parking
lot or garage within the corporate limits of the village without having first
obtained a permit so to do and authority from the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 116.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.03 FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   No permit or authority to so park and store the types of vehicles enumerated
herein shall be issued and granted by the Board of Trustees unless the
applicant shall have first filed with the Board the written consent of three-
fourths of the individual property owners within a radius of 600 feet from the
boundary lines of the proposed parking lot or garage.
(Prior Code, § 116.03)
§ 116.04 FEES.
   The Board of Trustees may charge a fee for such permit in the amount it may
from time to time determine.
(Prior Code, § 116.04)
CHAPTER 117: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS
AND SOLICITORS
Section
Peddlers
   
117.01   License required
   
117.02   Applications; exceptions
   
117.03   Fee
   
117.04   Fraud
Itinerant Merchants
   
117.15   License required
   
117.16   Applications; exceptions
   
117.17   Fees
PEDDLERS
§ 117.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of hawker or
peddler of any merchandise, article or thing without having first obtained a
license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 117.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.02 APPLICATIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk, and
shall state thereon the number of vehicles, if any, intended to be operated,
the kind of article or merchandise to be peddled, and the permanent address of
the peddler.
   (B)   (1)   No application for such license shall be granted to a person or
business entity who or which seeks to operate the business during the village’s
annual Turkey Festival.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply to activities sanctioned by the
Tremont Betterment Association and its committees in connection with the
Tremont Turkey Festival.
(Prior Code, § 117.02) (Ord. 00-101, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 117.03 FEE.
   The fee for such licenses shall be in an amount to be determined by the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 117.03)
§ 117.04 FRAUD.
   Any licensed peddler or hawker who shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or herself or through an employee,
while acting as a peddler in the village or who shall barter, sell or peddle
any goods, wares or merchandise other than those specified in his or her
application for license, shall, on conviction, be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 117.04)
ITINERANT MERCHANTS
§ 117.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to do business in the village as an itinerant
merchant without having first secured a license as herein provided.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, any merchant engaging or intending
to engage in business as a merchant in the village for a period of time not
exceeding 100 days shall be considered as an itinerant merchant; provided that,
peddlers shall not be considered itinerant merchants.
(Prior Code, § 117.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.16 APPLICATIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Every application for such a license shall set forth the commodities
to be sold, and the place intended to be occupied or used for the business.
   (B)   No application for such license shall be granted to a person or
business entity who or which seeks to operate such business during the
village’s annual Turkey Festival. This provision shall not apply to activities
sanctioned by the Tremont Betterment Association and its committees in
connection with the Tremont Turkey Festival.
(Prior Code, § 117.16) (Ord. 00-101, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 117.17 FEES.
   The fees for licenses shall be in an amount to be determined by the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 117.17)
CHAPTER 118: SIDEWALK SALES
Section
   
118.01   License required
   
118.02   Application for license
   
118.03   License fee
   
118.04   Regulations for operation of sidewalk sales
   
118.05   Inspections
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, transient, merchant,
church, club, charitable, institution, hawker or peddler to vend, sell, dispose
or offer to vend, sell, dispose or display any goods, wares, merchandise,
produce or vegetables, on any public walk, street, alley or anywhere within the
village, without having first obtained a license from the Village Clerk for
that purpose and having paid a license fee therefor, as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 118.01) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for license to vend, sell, dispose or display merchandise,
goods, wares, produce or vegetables shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk. The application shall contain the name of the applicant, if an
individual, the names of partners, if a copartnership, or the names of the
principal officers, if a corporation, church, club, charitable institution, and
shall include the location of the place or places where such merchandise,
goods, wares, produce or vegetables, are to be so displayed and sold.
(Prior Code, § 118.02)
§ 118.03 LICENSE FEE.
   The Board may charge a fee for such license in the amount it may from time
to time determine.
(Prior Code, § 118.03)
§ 118.04 REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION OF SIDEWALK SALES.
   No street or alley shall be blocked by any merchandise offered for sale
hereunder. A two-foot passage way for pedestrians shall be left open, and
merchandise shall be securely and adequately placed so that it will not
endanger passersby or fall or extrude into any street or alley. Such sales
shall not be operated in any manner which would cause a nuisance or create a
fire hazard.
(Prior Code, § 118.04) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.05 INSPECTIONS.
   The Chief of Police and the Chief of the Fire Department shall make or cause
to be made sufficient inspections to injure the compliance with the provisions
of this chapter and other applicable provisions of this code and other village
ordinances by the personnel conducting such sales.
(Prior Code, § 118.05)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 119: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Cannabis business establishments prohibited
   
119.03   Public nuisance
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the State Department of Agriculture to cultivate,
dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary activities to make
cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or use at a processing
organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of Financial
and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed cannabis business
establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-
infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related supplies to
purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers,
per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended
from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the State Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A.101-0027),
as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent.
(Ord. 19-114, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 119.02 CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   The following adult use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in
the village. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated
or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the village of any of the
following:
      (A)   Adult use cannabis craft grower;
      (B)   Adult use cannabis cultivation center;
      (C)   Adult use cannabis dispensing organization;
      (D)   Adult use cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
      (E)   Adult use cannabis processing organization or processor; and
      (F)   Adult use cannabis transporting organization or transporter.
(Ord. 19-114, passed 10-7-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 119.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the
village in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 19-114, passed 10-7-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 120: RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Sidewalk Cafés
   
120.01   Generally permitted
   
120.02   Operating requirements
   
120.03   Insurance
   
120.04   Streets
   
120.05   License provisions
SIDEWALK CAFÉS
§ 120.01 GENERALLY PERMITTED.
   Notwithstanding any provision of the this code of ordinances to the
contrary, the owner or occupant of property adjoining any village sidewalk may
place tables, chairs and other equipment commonly used in connection with on-
site consumption of food and beverages on the village sidewalk or other village
property immediately adjacent to such property for the sale and consumption of
food and beverages only upon obtaining a license in accordance with this
chapter. The use of sidewalks, as set forth herein, shall be referred to in
this section as a SIDEWALK CAFÉ.
(Ord. 20-106, passed 5-28-2020)
§ 120.02 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any operator of a sidewalk café shall comply with the following regulations.
   (A)   Sidewalk cafés shall be located only in the area bounded by the
owner’s building, the adjacent street and the side lot lines of the owner’s
property.
   (B)   No portion of any umbrella in a sidewalk café or anything attached
thereto shall be less than six and one-half feet above ground level. All
umbrellas must have a mobile base. Umbrellas shall be retracted during all non-
operating hours.
   (C)   Where exigent circumstances exist and a police officer or other
authorized officer or employee of the village gives notice to the operator to
temporarily move from a location or suspend sidewalk café operations, the
operator shall comply with the notice. For purposes of this paragraph, exigent
circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, unusually heavy pedestrian
or vehicular traffic, the existence of any obstructions in the public space at
or near such location, a parade, a demonstration or any other similar event or
occurrence at or near such location.
   (D)   Food and beverage sales/service in the sidewalk café area may begin no
earlier than 6:00 a.m.
   (E)   Food and beverage sales/service in the sidewalk café area must end no
later than 10:00 p.m.
   (F)   All food and beverages may be served only in or on a container or dish
made of material that does not easily shatter or break. Any broken container or
dish or other property shall be immediately removed.
   (G)   Tables shall be cleared of all moveable items such as dishes,
condiments and other service items when not occupied.
   (H)   The operator shall be responsible for any items placed upon the
sidewalk. The village is not responsible for any items placed outside of the
business premises.
   (I)   Any refuse or trash containers placed upon the sidewalk by the
operator must be emptied daily. Unemptied refuse or trash containers shall not
be allowed to remain on the sidewalk after the time listed above for clearing
the sidewalk café area. The operator’s refuse or trash shall not be placed into
a village sidewalk refuse or trash container.
   (J)   Any litter deposited on, in or adjoining the vicinity of the sidewalk
café shall be removed immediately.
   (K)   The operator shall at all times conduct such activity or activities in
the sidewalk café area in an orderly fashion and in such a manner as to protect
the public health and safety.
   (L)   The operator shall comply with all health and sanitation regulations
applicable to food service establishments or otherwise.
   (M)   The operator shall indemnify, defend and hold the village, its
officers, agents and employees harmless from any loss that results directly or
indirectly from the use of the sidewalk and shall maintain and keep in effect
liability insurance in a form appropriate for the operator’s business.
   (N)   All tables, chairs and other equipment shall be removed during winter
months or any other time required by the village.
   (O)   The sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in the sidewalk café
shall be governed by the liquor license governing the restaurant.
   (P)   The sidewalk café shall not be detrimental to the health, safety,
morals or general welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity.
   (Q)   No food may be stored, cooked or otherwise prepared in the sidewalk
café area.
   (R)   No soiled food service equipment, utensils or tableware may be kept in
the sidewalk café area.
   (S)   All clean food service equipment, utensils or tableware must be
covered at all times.
   (T)   The sidewalk café shall be accessible to the disabled, and the
operator shall at all times comply with all applicable federal, state and
village laws, ordinances and regulations concerning accessibility and
nondiscrimination in the providing of service.
   (U)   The sidewalk café shall not obstruct any fire exit, fire escape or
other required means of ingress and egress of any building.
   (V)   In no event shall the operation of the sidewalk café unreasonably
interfere with the passage of pedestrian or vehicular traffic or reduce the
open portion of the public sidewalk to less than three feet, clear of all
obstructions, measured from edge of the sidewalk closest to the curb, lampposts
or parking meters.
   (Q)   In no event shall the operation of, or placement of equipment or
furnishings for, the sidewalk café obstruct access to any crosswalk, mailbox,
curb cut, parking space or any other public property. The furnishings or
equipment shall not obstruct access to any fire hydrant, fire escape or fire
door, or obstruct the clear view of any traffic signal, regulatory sign or
street sign.
   (R)   Outdoor furnishing materials and finishes shall be durable, smooth and
easily cleanable and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair.
(Ord. 20-106, passed 5-28-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 120.03 INSURANCE.
   Every person making application for a sidewalk café license shall, with the
application, provide to the village evidence of insurance coverage covering the
use of village sidewalks and other village property in form and substance
acceptable to the village.
(Ord. 20-106, passed 5-28-2020)
§ 120.04 STREETS.
   If any village streets or alleys are used as part of the sidewalk café, the
operator shall take all steps necessary and proper, in the opinion of the
village, to protect customers and others in the sidewalk café area from
vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 20-106, passed 5-28-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 120.05 LICENSE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful for any person operate a sidewalk café
on any village sidewalk or other village property unless a valid license issued
under this chapter for the sidewalk café is in effect.
   (B)   Application. Applications for the license required by this chapter
shall be filed with the Village Clerk and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner and operator of the establishment
where the sidewalk café shall be located;
      (2)   The area of village sidewalk where the sidewalk café is proposed to
be located;
      (3)   A description of the sidewalk café to be covered by the license;
and
      (4)   Evidence that insurance as required by §
120.03 is in place.
   (C)   Fee. The annual fee for the license required by this chapter shall be
$50. The fee shall be nonrefundable.
   (D)   Expiration. Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall terminate
on the fourth Tuesday of May the next year following issuance.
   (E)   Display. The license required by this chapter shall be prominently
displayed next to the sidewalk café.
   (F)   Transfer. No license issued pursuant to this chapter may be
transferred, sold or assigned to another person, except upon the sale or lease
of the premises for which the license is issued.
   (G)   Suspension or revocation. The Village President, at any time, may
notify any licensee under this chapter within five business days of any charge
of a violation of any of the provisions of this article in connection with the
operation of any sidewalk café. After a hearing presided over by the Village
President, the Village President may order the suspension or revocation of the
license upon a finding that the violation has occurred, and the license shall
thereupon be suspended or terminated.
(Ord. 20-106, passed 5-28-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 121: MOBILE FOOD VEHICLES
Section
Generally
   
121.01   Definitions
   
121.02   Operating requirements
   
121.03   Insurance
License
   
121.20   Required
   
121.21   Application
   
121.22   Fee
   
121.23   Restriction on number of licenses
   
121.24   Expiration and renewal
   
121.25   Display
   
121.26   Transfer
   
121.27   Suspension, revocation or non-renewal
GENERALLY
§ 121.01 DEFINITIONS.
   LICENSE. A mobile food vehicle license issued by the village pursuant to §§
121.20-
121.27 of this chapter.
   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. A self-contained motor vehicle or trailer from which
cooked, wrapped, packaged or processed foods are sold for immediate consumption
and conducts all or part of its operations on premises other than its own and
is readily movable, without disassembling, for transport to another location.
   VENDOR. A person or entity operating a mobile food vehicle.
(Ord. 24-105, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 121.02 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   All vendors operating mobile food vehicles shall comply with the following
requirements:
   (A)   Mobile food vehicles may only operate only from the parking spaces on
the village right of way located directly south of City Park and the Tremont
Park District pool, between Sampson Street and Harris Street.
   (B)   No mobile food vehicle may obstruct a public way, impair the movement
of pedestrians or vehicles or pose a hazard to public safety. Pedestrian
walkways of no less than four feet must be maintained on public sidewalks near
where the mobile food vehicle is operating.
   (C)   No license shall be required for operation in an event that is
approved by the village when the vendor has obtained the written permission of
the holder of the event to operate within the event’s boundaries.
   (D)   Vendors must follow all traffic and parking laws set forth in this
code or any other applicable law.
   (E)   Hours of operation shall be limited to the hours between 6:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. seven days a week. No mobile food vehicle shall be left unattended on
a public way. When parked in the right-of-way, a mobile food vehicle must be
open for business, actively preparing for opening or actively closing down.
   (F)   No vendor shall use or maintain any outside sound amplifying
equipment, lights, or noisemakers, such as bells, horns or whistles.
   (G)   No mobile food vehicle shall use external signs, seating, or any other
equipment not contained within the vehicle.
   (H)   No mobile food vehicle shall have a drive-through.
   (I)   Vendor shall obey any lawful order of a police officer to move to a
different permitted location to avoid congestion or obstruction of a public way
or remove the vehicle entirely from the public way if necessary to avoid such
congestion or obstruction.
   (J)   A mobile food vehicle must prominently display the name of the
business owner.
   (K)   Any power required for the mobile food vehicle shall be self-contained
and shall not use utilities drawn from the public right-of-way. No power cable
or equipment shall be extended at grade across any street, alley, or sidewalk.
   (L)   All identifying information, logos, advertising, decorations, or other
displays on the exterior of a mobile food vehicle shall conform to the purposes
set forth in the village code regulating commercial signage, to the extent
applicable. In particular, exterior displays shall be designed to minimize
confusion or distraction that jeopardizes vehicular and pedestrian safety and
shall be harmonious with the surroundings and consistent with the character of
the community in which the mobile food vehicle operates.
   (M)   The vendor shall have a 20-gallon litter receptacle available for
public use.
   (N)   No vendor shall leave his location without first picking up, removing
and disposing of all trash or refuse from the sales made by the vendor. The
vendor must clean from surfaces any stains caused by the business prior to
leaving the location.
   (O)   No vendor shall solicit or conduct business with persons in motor
vehicles.
   (P)   No vendor shall sell food or beverages without first obtaining a
license to do so from the Tazewell County Health Department.
   (Q)   Each vendor shall utilize a cash register which is capable of keeping
a record of all sales. All sales shall be run through the cash register and
receipts shall be available to customers upon request. A cash register record
and/or numbered receipts shall be made available to the village at the request
of the village.
   (R)   Mobile food vehicles shall be kept in good operating condition. No
peeling paint or rust shall be visible.
   (S)   All food storage, preparation and sale must be performed from within
the vehicle.
   (T)   All mobile food vehicles must adhere to Fire Department guidelines,
including but not limited to an annual inspection, random inspections, and
participation in periodic classroom training.
(Ord. 24-105, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 121.03 INSURANCE.
   Every vendor shall maintain and provide to the village evidence of public
liability, food products liability, and property damage insurance as will
protect vendor, property owners, and the village from all claims for damage to
property or bodily injury, including death, which may arise from the operations
under the license or in connection therewith. Such insurance shall provide
coverage of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence. The policy shall further
provide that it may not be cancelled except upon 30 days’ written notice served
upon the village. A license shall be invalid at any time the insurance required
herein is not maintained and evidence of continuing coverage is not filed with
the village.
(Ord. 24-105, passed 3-18-2024)
LICENSE
§ 121.20 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operate a mobile food vehicle on any
public right of way within the village unless a valid license for the mobile
food vehicle is in effect. A separate license shall be required for each mobile
food vehicle. Licenses and renewals of licenses shall be issued only upon the
approval of the Village Board, and may be approved or disapproved in the sole
discretion of the Village Board. Vendors have no property interest in any
license.
(Ord. 24-105, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 121.21 APPLICATION.
   Applications for a license shall be filed with the Village Clerk and shall
contain the following information:
   (A)   The name of the individual applying for the license.
   (B)   The applicant’s telephone number and driver’s license number.
   (C)   The address of the principal place of business of the applicant.
   (D)   If the applicant is employed by another person or entity, the name of
that employer, its address and telephone number.
   (E)   The type of food to be sold or offered for sale. This must include a
preliminary menu.
   (F)   A description of the vehicle to be used in conducting business
including, but not limited to, a description of any method to display food or
products to be offered for sale. The description of the vehicle may be in the
form of detailed scale drawings of the vehicle to be used, material
specifications, and an isometric drawing in color of at least two views showing
all four sides and any logos, printing or signs which will be incorporated and
utilized in the color scheme. Said description may include any additional items
(e.g., color and material samples, layouts of signs and graphics, or
photographs) which may reasonably be necessary to clearly visualize the
proposed design.
   (G)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a criminal offense or
ordinance violation (other than traffic or parking) in any jurisdiction and, if
so, a list of such convictions with date and prosecuting jurisdiction.
   (H)   License plate number and registration of the vehicle proposed to be
licensed.
   (I)   A signed statement that the vendor shall hold harmless the village and
its officers and employees, and shall indemnify the village, its officers and
employees for any claims for damage to property or injury to persons which may
be occasioned by any activity carried on under terms of the permit. Vendor
shall furnish evidence of the insurance required under §
121.03 above.
   (K)   When seeking a renewal, applicants must submit an accurate record of
sales, organized by date, from the previous year. Upon request, the licensee
must produce documentation acceptable to the village sufficient to verify the
record of sales, such as dated cash register records or numbered receipts.
   (L)   The location or locations where the applicant plans to operate.
(Ord. 24-105, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 121.22 FEE.
   The fee for a license shall be $150 for the initial license and $150 for
each annual renewal and shall be paid upon submission of the initial or renewal
application. The fee shall be nonrefundable.
(Ord. 24-105, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 121.23 RESTRICTION ON NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   No more than four licenses shall be issued and outstanding for mobile food
vehicles at any time.
(Ord. 24-105, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 121.24 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   All licenses shall terminate on April 30 of the year following issuance. All
applications for the renewal of a license shall be made in writing. A vendor
may request a renewal by submitting an application stating that the information
and statements contained in the original application have not changed and that
the mobile food vehicle has been operated in accordance with all applicable
laws, ordinances and regulations. Upon such application being filed, the
license may be renewed without the filing of a full application.
(Ord. 24-105, passed 3-18-2024; Ord. 25-105, passed 2-17-2025)
§ 121.25 DISPLAY.
   A license shall be prominently displayed on the mobile food vehicle.
(Ord. 24-105, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 121.26 TRANSFER.
   No license may be transferred, sold or assigned to another person.
(Ord. 24-105, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 121.27 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR NON-RENEWAL.
   The Village President, at any time, may notify any licensee under this
chapter within five business days of any charge of a violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter in connection with the operation of any mobile
food vehicle. After a hearing presided over by the Village President, the
Village President may order the suspension or revocation of a license upon a
finding that the violation has occurred, and the license shall thereupon be
suspended or terminated. A license issued under this chapter is a privilege and
not a right, and is subject to suspension, non-renewal or revocation at the
discretion of the Village Board.
(Ord. 24-105, passed 3-18-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
135.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
137.   WEAPONS
      
138.   PENALTY AND SETTLEMENT OPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Intent
   
130.03   Knowledge
   
130.04   Recklessness
   
130.05   Negligence
   
130.06   Attempt
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ACT. The taking of action or a failure or omission to take action.
(720 ILCS 5/2-2)
   ANOTHER. A person or persons other than the offender.
(720 ILCS 5/2-3)
   CONDUCT. An act or a series of acts, and the accompanying mental state.
(720 ILCS 5/2-4)
   OFFENSE. A violation of a penal statute of the village or state.
(720 ILCS 5/2-12) (Prior Code, § 130.01)
§ 130.02 INTENT.
   A person intends, or acts intentionally or with intent, to accomplish a
result or engage in conduct described by the section defining the offense, when
his or her conscious objective or purpose is to accomplish that result or
engage in that conduct.
(720 ILCS 5/4-4) (Prior Code, § 130.02)
§ 130.03 KNOWLEDGE.
   (A)   A person knows, or acts knowingly or with knowledge of:
      (1)   The nature or attendant circumstances of his or her conduct,
described by the section defining the offense, when he or she is consciously
aware that his or her conduct is of such nature or that such circumstances
exist. Knowledge of a material fact includes awareness of the substantial
probability that the fact exists; and
      (2)   The result of his or her conduct, described by the section defining
the offense, when he or she is consciously aware that such result is
practically certain to be caused by his or her conduct.
   (B)   Conduct performed knowingly or with knowledge is performed willfully,
within the meaning of a statute using the latter term, unless the section
clearly requires another meaning.
(720 ILCS 5/4-5) (Prior Code, § 130.03)
§ 130.04 RECKLESSNESS.
   (A)   A person is reckless or acts recklessly, when he or she consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or
that a result will follow, described by the section defining the offense; and
such disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care which a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
   (B)   An act performed recklessly is performed wantonly, within the meaning
of a section using the latter term, unless the statute clearly requires another
meaning.
(720 ILCS 5/4-6) (Prior Code, § 130.04)
§ 130.05 NEGLIGENCE.
   A person is negligent, or acts negligently, when he or she fails to be aware
of a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or a result
will follow, described by the statute defining the offense; and such failure
constitutes a substantial deviation from the standard of care which a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
(720 ILCS 5/4-7) (Prior Code, § 130.05)
§ 130.06 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits an attempt when, with intent
to commit a specific offense, he or she does any act which constitutes a
substantial step toward the commission of that offense.
   (B)   Impossibility. It shall not be a defense to a charge of attempt that
because of a misapprehension of the circumstances it would have been impossible
for the accused to commit the offense attempted.
(720 ILCS 5/8-4) (Prior Code, § 130.06) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Damage of firefighting apparatus, hydrants or equipment
   
131.02   Trespass to land
   
131.03   Damaging village property
   
131.04   [Reserved]
   
131.05   Park closing hours
   
131.06   Posted notices, park closed
   
131.07   Skateboards, roller skating and other toy vehicles
   
131.08   Deposit of yard waste and refuse at village refuse facilities
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DAMAGE OF FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with,
destroy or deface any fire hydrant, fire hose, fire engine or other public or
private firefighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining to such
equipment, or intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper authorization.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1) (Prior Code, § 131.01) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 TRESPASS TO LAND.
   (A)   Trespass prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to commit a trespass within the village upon either public or
private property.
   (B)   Specifically enumerated trespasses; suppression. Without constituting
any limitation upon the provisions of division (A) above, any of the following
acts by any person, firm or corporation shall be deemed included among those
that constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of division (A)
above, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from time
to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this section:
      (1)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or occupant thereof;
      (2)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
      (3)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      (4)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(Prior Code, § 131.02) (Ord. 482, passed 6-1-1970) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 DAMAGING VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person commits criminal damage to property when he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly damages any property of another;
      (2)   Recklessly by means of fire or explosive damages property of
another;
      (3)   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another;
      (4)   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent;
      (5)   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another any
stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby intends to interfere
with the use by another of the land or building;
      (6)   Knowingly damages any property, other than as described in division
(A)(2) above, with intent to defraud an insurer;
      (7)   Knowingly shoots a firearm at any portion of a railroad train;
      (8)   Knowingly, without proper authorization, cuts, injures, damages,
defaces, destroys or tampers with any fire hydrant or any public or private
firefighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining to firefighting
equipment; or
      (9)   Intentionally, without proper authorization, opens any fire
hydrant.
   (B)   When the charge of criminal damage to property exceeding a specified
value is brought, the extent of the damage is an element of the offense to be
resolved by the trier of fact as either exceeding or not exceeding the
specified value.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of divisions (A)(1), (A)
(3) or (A)(5) above that the owner of the property or land damaged consented to
the damage.
(Prior Code, § 131.03) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 [RESERVED].
§ 131.05 PARK CLOSING HOURS.
   No person shall enter upon any park owned or leased by the Tremont Area Park
District and located within the village limits between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m., except when so authorized by the District’s Director and the
village’s Chief of Police. The closing hours established herein shall not apply
to the three borrow-pit lakes located within the Interstate 155 highway
interchange on the east side of the village.
(Ord. 10-108, passed 8-16-2010) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 POSTED NOTICES, PARK CLOSED.
   (A)   No person shall enter upon any park or part thereof which is owned or
leased by the Tremont Area Park District and located within the village limits
when such park or part thereof is posted “Closed to the Public,” nor shall any
person use any such park or part thereof in violation of posted notices.
   (B)   No person shall violate or disobey the directions or instructions
contained in any notice or sign posted by the Village Corporate Authorities or
the Village Police Chief relating to the use of village property.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined, as
prescribed by §
131.99. Any person wishing to settle and compromise an offense shall pay the
required amount on or before the date specified in the notice of violation,
which date will be approximately ten days from the date on which the notice of
violation is given. The payment can be made either by mailing a check or money
order, together with the violator’s copy of the ticket to the Village of
Tremont, 211 S. Sampson Street, Tremont, IL 61568, or by paying the same in
person at the Village Hall during regular business hours. Checks or money
orders should be made payable to the “Village of Tremont.”
(Ord. 10-108, passed 8-16-2010; Ord. 18-114, passed 8-6-2018) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATING AND OTHER TOY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. All remaining property within the village corporate
limits that is not owned or leased by the Village or any of its governmental
subsidiaries, commissions or organizations, but rather owned or leased by an
individual, trust, partnership, business, school, park district, church or
other private entity.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY OR AREA. All village owned or leased roads, streets,
avenues, lanes, alleys, parking lots, public easements, paths and sidewalks.
      ROLLER BLADES. Shoes or boots which are outfitted with wheels that are
attached or laced to the feet of a person so as to allow that person to
transport himself or herself from one location to another by use of his or her
own power.
      SCOOTER. A single platform mounted on wheels, having a steering
mechanism, but having no mechanism or other device with which to power the unit
while being used, operated or ridden by a person.
      SKATEBOARD. A single platform which is mounted on wheels, having no
mechanism or other device with which to power, steer or control the direction
of movement thereof while being used, operated or ridden by a person.
   (B)   Use in certain areas prohibited. No person shall operate, ride or
skate on a skateboard, scooter or roller blades in and about the following
areas:
      (1)   On any street or alley within the corporate limits of the village;
      (2)   On any parking lot owned or leased by the village;
      (3)   On any private property where signs have been posted prohibiting
the activity of skateboarding, roller blading or operation of a scooter on such
property;
      (4)   In any area where a police officer considers and so directs that
the activity of skateboarding, roller blading or the operation of a scooter, at
that particular time and at that location, may pose a danger to the safety of
those individuals in that area; and
      (5)   On all sidewalks located and running parallel to the following
streets:
         (a)   S. Locust Street from South Street to Pearl Street;
         (b)   S. Sampson Street from South Street to Pearl Street;
         (c)   S. James Street from South Street to Pearl Street;
         (d)   S. Harris Street from South Street to Pearl Street;
         (e)   South Street from S. Locust Street to Harris Street;
         (f)   Walnut Street from S. Locust Street to Harris Street; and
         (g)   Pearl Street from Locust Street to Harris Street.
(Ord. 12-102, passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 DEPOSIT OF YARD WASTE AND REFUSE AT VILLAGE REFUSE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL YARD SERVICE. Any business or person who is hired by a village
resident for the purpose of mowing, trimming or cleanup of property owned or
leased by a village resident.
      POSTED NOTICES. Any sign posted upon property owned, leased or used by
the village for whatever purpose, that dictates the laws, rules and regulation
for use of said property.
      REFUSE SITE. The designated site currently located at the village sewer
treatment plant and used for the deposit of yard waste and refuse or at a
future site designated for that purpose by the village.
      RESIDENTS. The term resident shall include all persons residing upon
property located within the village limits, all persons owning residential,
business and commercial property located within the village limits and all
commercial lawn care businesses hired by such persons for the purpose of yard
maintenance.
      VILLAGE YARD WASTE AND REFUSE FACILITIES. The facility currently located
at the village sewer treatment plant located at W. Franklin Street or at any
future location as from time to time designated as such by the Village
Corporate Authorities.
      YARD WASTE AND REFUSE. Includes grass clippings, shrub and bush
clippings, flower and plant clippings, trees and tree branches and leaves;
except in the fail between the months of September thru December of each year
when the deposit of leaves will not be allowed.
   (B)   Those allowed to deposit yard waste and refuse at refuse sites.
Residents of the village are permitted to deposit yard waste or refuse at the
designated refuse site, subject to the rules and regulations set forth in this
section or posted at the site.
   (C)   Those prohibited from depositing yard waste and refuse at refuse
sites. Any person not a resident of the village as defined in this section is
prohibited from dumping yard waste or other refuse on any property within the
village limits.
   (B)   Violation. It shall be unlawful for any person not a resident of the
village or any resident to dump or deposit any yard waste or other garbage or
refuse at the designated yard waste or refuse disposal site located at the
village sewer treatment plant, or at such other designated site designed for
the deposit of such waste or refuse, in violation of this section or in
violation of posted notices at such site, or at any other location within the
village not designated for such purpose. It shall also be unlawful for any
resident to dump or deposit any such yard waste or refuse obtained from sources
outside the village limits or to dump or deposit yard waste or refuse when such
facility is posted as closed. Any person violating any provision of this
section shall be fined as provided by §
131.99.
   (D)   Payment. Any person wishing to settle and compromise an offense shall
pay the required amount on or before the date specified in the notice of
violation, which date will be approximately ten days from the date on which the
notice of violation is given. The payment can be made either by mailing a check
or money order, together with the violator’s copy of the ticket to the Village
of Tremont, 211 S. Sampson Street, Tremont, IL. 61568, or by paying the same in
person at the Village Hall during regular business hours. Checks or money
orders should be made payable to the “Village of Tremont.”
(Ord. 18-113, passed 8-6-2018) Penalty, see §
131.99
§  131.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Curfew
   
132.03   Residential soliciting
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person commits the offense of disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   Transmits in any manner to the fire department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district, a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists;
   (C)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such place;
   (D)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed;
   (E)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful purpose
deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window or other
opening in it;
   (F)   While acting as a “collection agency,” as defined in the state’s
collection agency act or as an employee of such collection agency, and while
attempting to collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged
debtor which is designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor; or
   (G)   Transmits in any manner to the Police Department or Fire Department of
any municipality or fire protection district, or any privately-owned and
operated ambulance service, a false request for an ambulance, emergency medical
technician-ambulance or emergency medical technician-paramedic, knowing at the
time there is no reasonable ground for believing that such assistance is
required.
(Prior Code, § 132.01) (Ord. 10-102, passed 3-15-2010) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person less than 18 years of age to be present at
or upon any public assembly, building, business, street, highway or other
public place in the village or way at the following times:
      (1)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturdays;
      (2)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Sundays; and
      (3)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 a.m.
on the following day.
   (B)   It is a defense to a violation under this section that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child's parent, legal guardian, custodian,
sibling, stepbrother or stepsister at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult at least 21 years of age approved by the
child's parent, guardian, or custodian; and/or
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Employment which the laws of this state authorize a person less
than 18 years of age to perform;
         (b)   A school recreational activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child's rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article 1, §§ 3, 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the State of Illinois, or both;
or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a non-profit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the
supervision of one or more adult.
      (4)   A citation for violation of division (A) above may be issued by a
police officer only if he or she reasonably believes that a violation has
occurred and none of the defenses enumerated in divisions (B)(1) - (3) apply.
   (C)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian, custodian, or other
person to knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or control to violate
the provisions of division (A) above. It shall be a rebuttable presumption that
a person has violated this section if someone under 18 years of age of whom
such person has custody or control is present upon any public assembly,
building, business, street or highway or other public place or public way in
violation of division (A) above, and none of the defenses enumerated in
division (B) hereof apply.
   (D)   Any person convicted of a violation of division (C) above shall be
punished by a fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of this
code for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during on or which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 132.02) (Ord. 10-102, passed 3-15-2010; Ord. 22-110, passed 6-6-
2022) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose curfew, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
§ 132.03 RESIDENTIAL SOLICITING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is in the
possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
      RESIDENCE. Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes
by one or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
      SOLICITING. Any one or more of the following activities:
         (a)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs or services, of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind or consideration whatever; or
         (b)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application for or
purchase of insurance of any type, kind or character; or
         (c)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines,
periodicals, newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
         (d)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions or money, clothing or
any other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable,
religious, political or nonprofit association, organization, corporation or
project; or
         (e)   Seeking to proselytize beliefs by any charitable, religious,
political or nonprofit association, organization, corporation or project.
   (B)   Certificate of registration. It is hereby declared to be the policy of
the Village Board that the occupant or occupants of the residences in this
municipality shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall be, or
shall not be, invited to their respective residences. If no determination is
made as is provided in division (F) below, registration is not required for
soliciting of that particular residence.
   (C)   Application for certificate of registration; fee.
      (1)   Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a
form provided by the Village Hall. The applicant shall truthfully state in full
the following information:
         (a)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; business address if other than residence address;
social security number;
         (b)   Address of place of residence during the past three years if
other than present address;
         (c)   Physical description of the applicant; or photograph on driver's
license, or state identification card;
         (d)   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or
association whom the applicant is employed by or represents; and length of time
of such employment or representation;
         (e)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter
of the soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
         (f)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied for, which
shall not exceed one year;
         (g)   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous
application for a certificate under this section, if any;
         (h)   Whether a certificate of registration issued to the applicant
under this section, or any similar certification issued by any other
municipality, has ever been revoked;
         (i)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this section; and
         (j)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony under
the laws of the State of Illinois, any other state, or the United States.
      (2)   All statements made by applicant under the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
      (3)   Each application by a person or entity other than a not for profit
entity shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee in an amount
determined by the Village Board.
      (4)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept in his or her office an
accurate record of every application received and acted upon together with all
other information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this section, and of the denial of
applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued, and any renewal thereof, shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued.
   (D)   Issuance of certificate.
      (1)   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who
has been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the State of
Illinois or any other state or the United States within five years of the date
of application; nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this section. Further, no certificate of registration
shall be issued to any person whose certificate of registration issued
hereunder has previously been revoked as herein provided.
      (2)   The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application and all
information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the
applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein
required. Endorsement shall be made by the Chief of Police upon the application
of the denial of the application. When the applicant is found to be fully
qualified, the certificate of registration shall be issued forthwith.
   (E)   Revocation of certificate.
      (1)   (a)   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be
revoked by the Chief of Police if:
            1.   The holder of the certificate is convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this section or has made a false material statement in
the application;
            2.   The holder engages in soliciting inconsistent with the
information contained in its application; or
            3.   The holder becomes disqualified for the issuance of the
certificate of registration under the terms of this section.
         (b)   Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall
be given by the Chief of Police to the holder of the certificate in person or
by certified U.S. mail addressed to his or her residence address set forth in
the application.
      (2)   Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of
registration shall become null and void.
      (3)   The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date
hereof.
   (F)   Notice regulating soliciting. Every person desiring to secure the
protection intended to be provided by the regulations pertaining to soliciting
contained in this section may comply with the following regulations:
      (1)   Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to
solicitors, or the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence, shall
be given in the manner following:
"ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN TREMONT INVITED"
or
"NO SOLICITORS INVITED"
      (2)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
      (3)   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
   (G)   Duty of solicitors.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any
premises in the village upon which a residence as herein defined is located to
first examine the notice provided for in division (F) above, if any is
attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the notice. If the
notice states "ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN TREMONT INVITED", then any
solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of registration as herein provided
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises; and if the notice
states "NO SOLICITORS INVITED", then any solicitor, whether registered or not,
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
      (2)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
   (H)   Uninvited soliciting prohibited. It is hereby declared to be unlawful
and shall constitute a nuisance for any person to go upon any premises and ring
the doorbell upon or near any door, or create any sound in any other manner
calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the
purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in
soliciting as herein defined, in defiance of the notice exhibited at the
residence in accordance with the provisions of division (F) above.
   (I)   Time limit on soliciting. It is hereby declared to be unlawful and
shall constitute a nuisance for any person whether registered under this
section or not, to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any
door of such residence located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door, or
create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of soliciting as herein defined, on
any day of the week prior to 9:00 a.m. or after the later to occur of 7:00 p.m.
or sunset.
(Ord. 22-109, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer or correctional institution
employee
   
133.02   Refusing to aid an officer
   
133.03   Tampering with public notice
§ 133.01 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER OR CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION
EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   (1)   A person who knowingly resists or obstructs the performance by
one known to the person to be a peace officer, firefighter or correctional
institution employee of any authorized act within his or her official capacity
commits a Class A misdemeanor.
      (2)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, a court
shall order any person convicted of resisting or obstructing a peace officer,
firefighter or correctional institution employee to be sentenced to a minimum
of 48 consecutive hours of imprisonment or ordered to perform community service
for not less than 100 hours as may be determined by the court. The person shall
not be eligible for probation in order to reduce the sentence of imprisonment
or community service.
      (3)   A person convicted for a violation of this section whose violation
was the proximate cause of an injury to a peace officer, firefighter or
correctional institution employee is guilty of a Class 4 felony.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE. Any person employed to supervise and
control inmates incarcerated in a penitentiary, state farm, reformatory,
prison, jail, house of correction, police detention area, half-way house or
other institution or place for the incarceration or custody of persons under
sentence for offenses or awaiting trial or sentence for offenses, under arrest
for an offense, a violation of probation, a violation of parole, a violation of
aftercare release, a violation of mandatory supervised release or awaiting a
hearing or preliminary hearing on setting the conditions of pretrial release,
or who are sexually dangerous persons or who are sexually violent persons.
      FIREFIGHTER. Any individual, either as an employee or volunteer, of a
regularly constituted fire department of a municipality or fire protection
district who performs firefighting duties, including, but not limited to, the
fire chief, assistant fire chief, captain, engineer, driver, ladder person,
hose person, pipe person, and any other member of a regularly constituted fire
department. FIREFIGHTER also means a person employed by the office of the State
Fire Marshal to conduct arson investigations.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of this section if a
person resists or obstructs the performance of one known by the person to be a
firefighter by returning to or remaining in a dwelling, residence, building, or
other structure to rescue or to attempt to rescue any person.
   (D)   A person shall not be subject to arrest for resisting arrest under
this section unless there is an underlying offense for which the person was
initially subject to arrest.
(720 ILCS 5/31-1) (Prior Code, § 133.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.02 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   Whoever upon command refuses or knowingly fails reasonably to aid a person
known by him or her to be a peace officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense, commits a petty
offense.
(720 ILCS 5/31-8) (Prior Code, § 133.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   A person commits tampering with public notice when he or she knowingly and
without lawful authority alters, destroys, defaces, removes or conceals any
public notice, posted according to law, during the time for which the notice
was to remain posted.
(720 ILCS 5/32-9) (Prior Code, § 133.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Public indecency
   
134.02   Obscenity
   
134.03   Harmful material
   
134.04   Cannabis and drug paraphernalia
   
134.05   Sale or delivery of alcohol to minors
   
134.06   Tobacco; purchase by minors
   
134.07   Synthetic alternative drugs
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   Any person of the age of 17 years and upwards who performs any of the
following acts in a public place commits a public indecency:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct; or
      (2)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
   (B)   Breast-feeding of infants is not an act of public indecency.
   (C)   PUBLIC PLACE, for purposes of this section, means any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
(720 ILCS 5/11-30(a), (b)) (Prior Code, § 134.01)
Statutory reference:
   Public indecency by person 18 year of age or older, or within 500 feet of
elementary or secondary school grounds when children are present, Class 4
felony, see 720 ILCS 5/11-30(c)
§ 134.02 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver
or provide any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Obscene defined. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults; except
that, it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.
      (3)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of such people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in the
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material; and
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
   (D)   Permissive inference. The trier of fact may infer an intent to
disseminate from the creation, purchase, procurement or possession of a mold,
engraved plate or other embodiment of obscenity specially adapted for
reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more than three copies of
obscene material.
   (E)   Affirmative defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      (1)   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age; or
      (2)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20) (Prior Code, § 134.02) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
      HARMFUL TO MINORS. The quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-masochistic
abuse when, taken as a whole, it does the following:
         (a)   Predominately appeals to the prurient interest in sex of minors;
         (b)   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community in the state as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for
minors; and
         (c)   Lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value
for minors.
      KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents.
      MATERIAL.
         (a)   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, film, video game,
computer game, video or similar visual depiction, including any such
representation or image which is stored electronically; or
         (b)   Any book, magazine, printed matter however reproduced or
recorded audio of any sort.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion below the top of
the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state.
      SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad
in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being
fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one clothed
for sexual gratification or stimulation.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse or physical
contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or,
if the person be a female, breast.
      SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in
a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of distributing harmful material to a minor when he
or she does either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly sells, lends, distributes, exhibits to, depicts to or
gives away to a minor any of the following, knowing that the minor is under the
age of 18 or failing to exercise reasonable care in ascertaining the person’s
true age:
         (a)   Any material which depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sado-
masochistic abuse, or which contains explicit and detailed verbal descriptions
or narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic
abuse, and which taken as a whole is harmful to minors;
         (b)   A motion picture, show or other presentation which depicts
nudity, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic abuse and is harmful to minors; or
         (c)   An admission ticket or pass to premises where there is exhibited
or to be exhibited such a motion picture, show or other presentation.
      (2)   Admits a minor to premises where there is exhibited or to be
exhibited such a motion picture, show or other presentation, knowing that the
minor is a person under the age of 18 or failing to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the person’s true age.
   (C)   In any prosecution arising under this section, it is an affirmative
defense:
      (1)   The minor as to whom the offense is alleged to have been committed
exhibited to the accused a draft card, driver’s license, birth certificate or
other official or apparently official document purporting to establish that the
minor was 18 years of age or older, which was relied upon by the accused;
      (2)   The defendant was in a parental or guardianship relationship with
the minor or that the minor was accompanied by a parent or legal guardian;
      (3)   The defendant was a bona fide school, museum or public library, or
was a person acting in the course of his or her employment as an employee or
official of such organization or retail outlet affiliated with and serving the
educational purpose of the organization;
      (4)   The act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific or
educational purposes; or
      (5)   An advertisement of harmful material as defined in this section
culminated in the sale or distribution of the harmful material to a child under
circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the child by the
defendant, his or her employees, or agents, as where the order or request for
the harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, internet or similar
means of communication, and delivery of the harmful material to the child was
by mail, freight, internet or similar means of transport, which advertisement
contained the following statement, or a substantially similar statement, and
that the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he or she was not
under the age of 18 and that the purchaser falsely stated that he or she was
not under the age of 18:
 
NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to purchase the
matter advertised. Any person under the age of 18 that falsely states that he
or she is not under the age of 18 for the purpose of obtaining the material
advertised is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor under the laws of the state.
 
   (D)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall be
judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the child
to whom the material was sold, lent, distributed or given, unless it appears
from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its dissemination or
distribution that it is designed for specially susceptible groups, in which
case the predominant appeal of the material shall be judged with reference to
its intended or probable recipient group.
   (E)   Distribution of harmful material in violation of this section is a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (F)   Any person under the age of 18 who falsely states, either orally or in
writing, that he or she is not under the age of 18, or who presents or offers
to any person any evidence of age and identity that is false or not actually
his or her own with the intent of ordering, obtaining, viewing or otherwise
procuring or attempting to procure or view any harmful material is guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor.
   (G)   A person over the age of 18 who fails to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the true age of a minor, knowingly distributes to or sends, or
causes to be sent, or exhibits to, or offers to distribute, or exhibits any
harmful material to a person that he or she believes is a minor is guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   Telecommunications carriers, commercial mobile service providers and
providers of information services, including, but not limited to, internet
service providers and hosting service providers, are not liable under this
section, except for willful and wanton misconduct, by virtue of the
transmission, storage or caching of electronic communications or messages of
others or by virtue of the provision of other related telecommunications,
commercial mobile services or information services used by others in violation
of this section.
(720 ILCS 5/11-21) (Prior Code, § 134.03) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Distribution of harmful material, second or subsequent offense, a Class 4
felony, see 720 ILCS 5/11-21(e)
   Use of a computer web camera, cellular telephone, or any other type of
device to manufacture the harmful material, a Class 4 felony, see 720 ILCS 5/
11-21(g)
§ 134.04 CANNABIS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CANNABIS. Marijuana, hashish and other substances that are identified as
including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives or
subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not;
the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant,
its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction; however, “cannabis” does not include the mature
stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture
or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it),
fiber, oil or cake or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination. CANNABIS does not include industrial hemp as defined and
authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act. CANNABIS also means concentrate and
cannabis-infused products.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the State
Controlled Substances Act, being 720 ILCS 570/102, as amended.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind,
other than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined the
Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act (720 ILCS 646/1 et seq.),
which are intended to be used unlawfully in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the State Controlled
Substances Act or the Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits intended to be used in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing a controlled substance;
         (b)   Isomerization devices intended to be used in increasing the
potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
         (c)   Testing equipment intended to be used in identifying, or in
analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled substances;
         (d)   Dilutents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully by
private persons;
         (e)   Objects intended to be used in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing controlled substances into the human body, including, where
applicable, the following:
            1.   Water pipes;
            2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            3.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            5.   Carburetor pipes;
            6.   Electric pipes;
            7.   Air-driven pipes;
            8.   Chillums;
            9.   Bongs; and
            10.   Ice pipes or chillers.
         (f)   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described, is for use in
violation of this section.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Possession of cannabis. It shall be unlawful and a violation of
this code of ordinances for any person to possess cannabis in violation of any
provision of the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
      (2)   Possession of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any persons to
knowingly possess an item of drug paraphernalia with intent to use it in
ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing a controlled substance into the
human body, or in preparing a controlled substance for that use.
(Prior Code, § 134.04) (Ord. 532, passed 8-14-1978; Ord. 541, passed 9-10-1979;
Ord. 10-102, passed 3-15-2010; Ord. 21-127, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.05 SALE OR DELIVERY OF ALCOHOL TO MINORS.
   (A)   Possession of alcohol by minor. It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of 21 years to have in his or her possession any alcoholic
beverage within the village limits; except that, the dispensing and/or
possession or consumption by such person of alcoholic beverages in the
performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the consumption under the
direct supervision and approval of a parent or guardian of such person for such
purpose, in the privacy of a home, is not prohibited by this section.
   (B)   Consumption of alcohol by minor. It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of 21 years to consume any alcoholic beverage within the village
limits; except that, the dispensing and/or possession or consumption by such
person of alcoholic beverages in the performance of a religious service or
ceremony, or the consumption under the direct supervision and approval of a
parent or guardian of such person for such purpose, in the privacy of a home,
is not prohibited by this section.
   (C)   Presence on premises where minors are possessing or consuming
alcoholic beverages. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly enter and
remain in any house, building, yard or other premises licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor, under circumstances where the person knows or reasonably
should know that alcoholic liquor is being illegally possessed or consumed by
persons under the age of 21 years.
   (D)   Knowingly permit. It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other
person to knowingly permit a person under the age of 18 years old in his or her
custody to violate the provisions of division (A) above.
(Ord. 11-104, passed 6-6-2011) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.06 TOBACCO; PURCHASE BY MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18 years of age or a greater age as may be
imposed by the state as it relates to the sale and use of tobacco products by
minors.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Includes any substance containing tobacco leaf, or any
product that is made from or derived from tobacco, and is intended for human
consumption or is likely to be consumer, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled or ingested by any other means, including, but not
limited to, a cigarette, a cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, snus or
an electronic smoking device. The term includes any component or accessory used
in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters, rolling papers, pipes
or liquids used in electronic smoking devices, including, but not limited to,
cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping tobacco.
TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include drugs, devices or combination products
authorized for sale by the United States Food and Drug Administration as a
tobacco cessation product, or as a tobacco dependence product or for other
medicinal purposes.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE. A device which simulate tobacco or other smoking. It
uses a heating device or other mechanism that vaporizes a liquid solution. An
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE includes devices known as personal vaporizer or electronic
nicotine delivery system, but ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE does not include drugs,
devices or combination products authorized for sale by the United States Food
and Drug Administration as a tobacco cessation product, or as a tobacco
dependent product or for other medicinal purposes.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE PRODUCT. A product designed or intended for use with an
electronic cigarette, such as atomizers, cartomizers, batteries, bottles or
vaporizing liquid (e-juice).
   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT. A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing or by any other means. This does not include tobacco products as that
terms if defined in this section or any product approved by the United States
Food and Drug Administration as a nontobacco product for sale as a tobacco
cessation product, or as a tobacco dependence product or for other medicinal
purposes.
   (B)   Sale or delivery of tobacco or electronic cigarette products to
minors. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away
or deliver any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, electronic cigarette
product or alternative nicotine product to a minor. If any person suspects that
a minor is attempting to purchase or obtain any tobacco product, electronic
cigarette, electronic cigarette product or alternative nicotine product, such
person shall request and examine identification from the purchaser or acquirer
and positively establish the purchaser’s or acquirer’s age allowing the
purchase or delivery of such products to occur.
   (C)   Purchase of tobacco or electronic cigarette products by minors. It
shall be unlawful for a minor to purchase any tobacco product, electronic
cigarette, electronic cigarette product or alternative nicotine product, or for
a minor to misrepresent his or her identity or age, or to use any false or
altered identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products,
electronic cigarette electronic cigarette product or alternative nicotine
product.
   (D)   Possession or consumption of tobacco or electronic cigarette products
by minors.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a minor to possess or consume in any
manner or form any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, electronic cigarette
product or alternative nicotine product.
      (2)   Possession of any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, electronic
cigarette product or alternative nicotine product by a minor is not an offense
if the minor was in possession of an unopened container or containers of such
products while performing his or her specified duties at a lawful place of
employment.
      (3)   The prevision of division (B) above and this division (D) of this
section do not apply to a minor who is under the direct and immediate
supervision of his or her parent or legal guardian in the privacy and confines
of the parent’s or legal guardian’s residence.
   (E)   Seizure. A law enforcement officer shall seize any tobacco product,
electronic cigarette, electronic cigarette product or alternative nicotine
product or products involved in any violation of this section committed in his
or her presence.
   (G)   Violation. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined in accordance with the general penalty provisions of this code for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 01-1033, passed 1-23-2001; Ord. 08-1483, passed 6-24-2008; Ord. 11-104,
passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 19-103, passed 3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.07 SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      A PRODUCT CONTAINING A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG. Any product containing
a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen, as those terms
are defined herein such as, but not limited to, the examples of brand names or
identifiers listed on Exhibit “A,” attached to the ordinance codified herein
and incorporated herein.
      SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID. Any laboratory-created compound that functions
similar to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol
(THC),including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including
isomer, esters, ethers, salts and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid
receptor agonist, such as, but not limited to, the examples of brand names or
identifiers listed on Exhibit “A,” attached to the ordinance codified herein
and incorporated herein.
      SYNTHETIC STIMULANT. Any compound that mimics the effects of any
federally controlled Schedule I substance such as cathinone, methcathinone,
MDMA and MDEA, including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or
synthetic material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog
(including salts, isomers and salts of isomers) containing substances which
have a stimulant effect on the central nervous system, such as, but not limited
to, the examples of brand names or identifiers listed on Exhibit “A,” attached
to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein.
      SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/HALLUCINOGEN. Any compound that mimics the effects
of any federally controlled Schedule I substance, including but not limited to,
any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture,
preparation, substance and their analog, (including salts, isomers, esters,
ethers and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a psychedelic/
hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system and/or brain, such as, but
not limited to, the examples of brand names or identifiers listed on Exhibit
“A,” attached to the ordinances codified herein and incorporated herein.
   (B)   Sale or delivery. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer
for sale or deliver any product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, a synthetic
stimulant or a synthetic psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   (C)   Possession. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess a
product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, a synthetic stimulant or a
synthetic psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   (D)   Use. It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of
a synthetic cannabinoid, a synthetic stimulant or a synthetic psychedelic/
hallucinogen.
(Ord. 12-101, passed 3-5-2012) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 135: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Gambling
   
135.03   Keeping a gambling place
   
135.04   Seizure of gambling devices and gambling funds
   
135.05   Local video gaming licenses
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS. Has the meaning ascribed to it in 720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.
   COMPUTER. Has the meaning ascribed to it in 720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill or
upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A GAMBLING DEVICE does
not include:
      (1)   A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which rewards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property;
      (2)   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard;
      (3)   A crane game. For the purposes of this definition, a CRANE GAME is
an amusement device involving skill, if it rewards the player exclusively with
merchandise contained within the amusement device proper and limited to toys,
novelties, and prizes other than currency, each having a wholesale value which
is not more than $25;
      (4)   A redemption machine. For the purposes of this definition, a
REDEMPTION MACHINE is a single-player or multi-player amusement device
involving a game, the object of which is throwing, rolling, bowling, shooting,
placing or propelling a ball or other object that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights into, upon or against a hole or
other target that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights, or stopping, by physical, mechanical or electronic means, a moving
object that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights into, upon, or against a hole or other target that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights; provided that, all of the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The outcome of the game is predominantly determined by the skill
of the player;
         (b)   The award of the prize is based solely upon the player’s
achieving the object of the game or otherwise upon the player’s score;
         (c)   Only merchandise prizes are awarded;
         (d)   The wholesale value of prizes awarded in lieu of tickets or
tokens for single play of the device does not exceed $25; and
         (e)   The redemption value of tickets, tokens, and other
representations of value, which may be accumulated by players to redeem prizes
of greater value, for a single play of the device does not exceed $25.
      (5)   Video gaming terminals at a licensed establishment, licensed truck
stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment or licensed veterans
establishment licensed in accordance with the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40).
   INTERNET. An interactive computer service or system or an information
service, system or access software provider that provides or enables computer
access by multiple users to a computer server, and includes, but is not limited
to, an information service, system or access software provider that provides
access to a network system commonly known as the Internet, or any comparable
system or service and also includes, but is not limited to, a World Wide Web
page, newsgroup, message board, mailing list or chat area on any interactive
computer service or system or other online service.
   LOTTERY. Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name, excluding savings promotion raffles authorized
under § 5g of the state’s Banking Act (205 ILCS 5/§ 5g), § 7008 of the Savings
Bank Act (205 ILCS 5/§ 7008), § 42.7 of the state’s Credit Union Act (205 ILCS
5/§ 42.7), § 5136B of the National Bank Act (12 U.S.C. § 25a) or § 4 of the
Home Owners’ Loan Act (12 U.S.C. § 1463).
   POLICY GAME. Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property, or evidence of debt.
(720 ILCS 5/28-2) (Prior Code, § 135.01)
§ 135.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   A person commits gambling when he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing
of value, unless excepted in division (B) below;
      (2)   Knowingly makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any
political nomination, appointment or election;
      (3)   Knowingly operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents,
sells, bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures or distributes any
gambling device;
      (4)   Contracts to have or give himself or herself or another the option
to buy or sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or
other commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, where it
is at the time of making such contract intended by both parties thereto that
the contract to buy or sell, or the option, whenever exercised, or the contract
resulting therefrom, shall be settled, not by the receipt or delivery of such
property, but by the payment only of differences in prices thereof; however,
the issuance, purchase, sale, exercise, endorsement or guarantee, by or through
a person registered with the Secretary of State pursuant to § 8 of the state’s
Securities Law of 1953 (815 ILCS 5/8), or by or through a person exempt from
such registration under § 8, of a put, call or other option to buy or sell
securities which have been registered with the Secretary of State or which are
exempt from such registration under § 3 of the state’s Securities Law of 1953
(815 ILCS 5/3) is not gambling within the meaning of this division (A)(4);
      (5)   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he or she has received in the course of a
bet or wager;
      (6)   Knowingly sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of
skill or chance, political nomination, appointment or election;
      (7)   Knowingly sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell
or transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      (8)   Knowingly sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to
sell or knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record,
document or other similar device;
      (9)   Knowingly drafts, prints or publishes any lottery ticket or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of the state or any other state or
foreign government;
      (10)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of the state or any other state;
      (11)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this division (A)(11)
prohibits transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting
of sporting events or contests; or
      (12)   Knowingly establishes, maintains or operates an Internet site that
permits a person to play a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of
value by means of the Internet or to make a wager upon the result of any game,
contest, political nomination, appointment or election by means of the
Internet. This division (A)(12) does not apply to activities referenced in
divisions (B)(6)(a) and (B)(6)(b) below.
   (B)   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted
of gambling:
      (1)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including without limitation contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance;
      (2)   Offers of prizes, award or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
      (3)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of the state;
      (4)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law; or the
manufacture, distribution or possession of video gaming terminals, as defined
in the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40), by manufacturers, distributors and
terminal operators licensed to do so under the Video Gaming Act;
      (5)   The game commonly known as “bingo,” when conducted in accordance
with the Bingo License and Tax Act (230 ILCS 25);
      (6)   (a)   Lotteries when conducted by the state in accordance with the
state’s Lottery Law (20 ILCS 1605). This exemption includes any activity
conducted by the Department of Revenue to sell lottery tickets pursuant to the
provisions of the state’s Lottery Law and its rules.
         (b)   The purchase of lottery tickets through the Internet for a
lottery conducted by the state under the program established in § 7.12 of the
state’s Lottery Law (20 ILCS 1605/7.12).
      (7)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this division (B)(7), an ANTIQUE
SLOT MACHINE is one manufactured 25 years ago or earlier;
      (8)   Raffles and poker runs when conducted in accordance with the
Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15);
      (9)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with the Charitable
Games Act (230 ILCS 30);
      (10)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under the state’s Pull Tabs
and Jar Games Act (230 ILCS 20);
      (11)   Gambling games conducted on riverboats when authorized by the
Riverboat Gambling Act (230 ILCS 10);
      (12)   Licensed video gaming establishments licensed in accordance with
the provisions provided in this chapter;
      (13)   Games of skill or chance where money or other things of value can
be won but no payment or purchase is required to participate;
      (14)   Savings promotion raffles authorized under § 5g of the state’s
Banking Act (205 ILCS 5/5g), § 7008 of the Savings Bank Act (205 ILCS 205/
7008), § 42.7 of the state’s Credit Union Act, § 5136b of the National Bank Act
(12 U.S.C. § 25a) or § 4 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act (12 U.S.C. § 1463); and
      (15)   Sports wagering when conducted in accordance with the Sports
Wagering Act.
   (C)   In prosecutions under this section, circumstantial evidence shall have
the same validity and weight as in any criminal prosecution.
(720 ILCS 5/28-1(a), (b), (d)) (Prior Code, § 135.02) (Ord. 13-102, passed 3-4-
2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Second and subsequent offenses of §
135.02(A)(3) through (A)(12), felonies, see 720 ILCS 5/28-1
§ 135.03 KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a GAMBLING PLACE is any real estate,
vehicle, boat, or any other property whatsoever used for the purposes of
gambling other than gambling conducted in the  manner authorized by the
Illinois Gambling Act (230 ILCS 10), the Sports Wagering Act, or the Video
Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40). No person shall knowingly permit any premises or
property owned or occupied by him or her or under his or her control to be used
as a gambling place.
   (B)   When any premises is determined by the circuit court to be a gambling
place:
      (1)   The premises is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be
proceeded against as such; and
      (2)   The premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a
violation of any section of this chapter shall be held liable for and may be
sold to pay any unsatisfied judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied
fine that may be levied under any section of this chapter.
(720 ILCS 5/28-3) (Prior Code, § 135.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.04 SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   (A)   Every device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use or
every device used unlawfully for gambling shall be considered a gambling device
and shall be subject to seizure, confiscation and destruction by the Department
of State Police or village authorities. As used in this section, a GAMBLING
DEVICE includes any slot machine, and includes any machine or device
constructed for the reception of money or other thing of value and so
constructed as to return, or cause someone to return, on chance to the player
thereof money, property or a right to receive money or property. With the
exception of any device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use,
no gambling device shall be forfeited or destroyed unless an individual with a
property interest in the device knows of the unlawful use of the device.
(720 ILCS 5/28-5(a))
   (B)   Every gambling device shall be seized and forfeited to the county
wherein the seizure occurs. Any money or other thing of value integrally
related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited to the county wherein
the seizure occurs.
(720 ILCS 5/28-5(b))
(Prior Code, § 135.04)
§ 135.05 LOCAL VIDEO GAMING LICENSES.
   (A)   “Video gaming terminal” definition. For purposes of this section,
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL shall have the same meaning as set forth in the state’s
Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/65).
   (B)   Premises upon which video gaming terminals are permitted.
      (1)   Licensed retail establishments in the village where alcoholic
liquor is drawn, poured, mixed or otherwise served for consumption on the
premises (village’s Class A license only), as permitted under this section, the
state’s Gaming Board regulations and the rules and regulations contained in
this section; and
      (2)   Licensed fraternal establishments and veteran establishments in the
village as permitted under the Act, the state’s Gaming Board regulations and
the rules and regulations contained in this section.
   (C)   Fee. There is hereby imposed on the privilege of opening every video
gaming terminal in the village, as defined in the state’s Video Gaming Act (230
ILCS 40/1 et seq.), an annual fee of $25 for each such device.
   (D)   License required. No person shall keep or display for operation or
patronage by the public within the village and video gaming terminal without
first having obtained a written license therefor from the village, which
license shall be hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises, and such posted license shall include the number of the video gaming
terminals licensed on such premises. It shall be a prerequisite to any such
video gaming terminal license issued by the village that such establishment
keeping the video gaming terminal have in place the following licenses:
      (1)   A valid license from the state’s Gaming Board for each such device;
and
      (2)   If alcoholic liquor is drawn, poured, mixed or otherwise served for
consumption on the premises a valid state liquor license issued by the state’s
Liquor Commission; and a valid Class A liquor license for service of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on premises only issued by the village’s Liquor Control
Commission.
      (3)   The revocation, loss or suspension of any license set forth herein
shall automatically result in the revocation, loss or suspension of the video
gaming terminal license issued hereunder, without refund of any license fee,
for all video gaming terminals licensed for the establishment.
   (E)   Application form required. An application for a video gaming terminal
license shall be made to the village on forms furnished by the Village Clerk.
The application shall set forth the number of video gaming terminals for which
permission is sought for a particular premises, and shall include a copy of the
licenses issued by the state for each video gaming terminal at that location,
and a copy of the applicant’s state and village liquor license for that
location, if applicable, and shall be accompanied by payment of a non-
refundable application fee in the amount of $250.
   (F)   Minimums. An establishment request in a license for video gaming
terminals shall be a minimum of 100 feet from a preexisting school or place of
worship under the Religious Corporation Act (805 ILCS 110/0.1 et seq.).
Distance shall be determined by measuring the distance from a proposed or
existing licensed video gaming location to a preexisting school or place of
worship by drawing a straight line between the closest part of the building
used for the proposed or existing licensed video gaming location and the
closest part of any building used for the school or place of worship.
   (G)   Permission. Except with respect to video gaming terminals, no
gambling, raffle, lottery or chance gift distribution of money or articles of
value shall be permitted on any premises wherein a business, occupation,
activity or establishment is licensed under this chapter.
(Ord. 13-102, passed 3-4-2013; Ord. 18-119, passed 12-17-2018)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Litter
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Dumping or depositing of litter prohibited; exemptions
   
136.03   Dumping or depositing litter from motor vehicle prohibited
   
136.04   Accumulation of litter prohibited
   
136.05   Presumption of violation by operator throwing litter from motor
vehicle
   
136.06   Receptacles required in public areas
   
136.07   Power of court to order removal of litter
 
   
136.99   Penalty
LITTER
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following words and phrases shall
have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   LITTER. May include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse,
cigarettes, debris, rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste,
newspaper, magazines, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers or other
packaging construction material, abandoned vehicle (as defined in the state’s
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.)), motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil,
carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind, any
object likely to injure any person or create a traffic hazard, potentially
infectious medical waste as defined in § 3.360 of the Environmental Protection
Act (415 ILCS 5/3.360), or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature,
which has been discarded, abandoned or otherwise disposed of improperly.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in Ch. 70 of this code of ordinances.
(415 ILCS 105/3(a)) (Prior Code, § 136.01)
§ 136.02 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING OF LITTER PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS.
   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave or cause or
permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding, or leaving of
litter upon any public or private property located in or owned by the village,
or upon or into any river, lake, pond or other stream or body of water in the
village unless:
   (A)   The property has been designated by the village or any of its agencies
for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the state’s Pollution
Control Board;
   (B)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended by
the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
   (C)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the property
or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession,
or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant
and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public nuisance or a
fire hazard;
   (D)   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days;
   (E)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency situation
where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly disposes of any
litter, including but not limited to potentially infectious medical waste as
defined in 415 ILCS 5/3.360, when the emergency situation no longer exists;
   (F)   The property has been designated by the village or its Superintendent
of Streets as a depository for leaves by village residents only pursuant to the
rules and regulations as formulated and posted at the site; and/or
   (G)   The property has been designated by the village or its Superintendent
of Water and Sewer as a depository for tree limbs, tree branches, shrubs and
bushes, by village residents only pursuant to the rules and regulations as
formulated and posted at the site.
(Prior Code, § 136.02) (Ord. 00-106, passed 9-18-2000) Penalty, see §
136.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 415 ILCS 105/4 and 105/8
§ 136.03 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard or otherwise dispose of
litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any public or
private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream, or body of
water in the village, except as permitted under §
136.02(A) through (E) of this chapter. Nor shall any person transport, by any
means, garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of business, farm
or other site to and deposit the material in, around or on top of trash barrels
or other receptacles placed along public highways or at roadside rest areas.
(415 ILCS 105/5) (Prior Code, § 136.03) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.04 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of which the
person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be blown
or otherwise carried by the natural elements on to the real property of another
person.
(415 ILCS 105/6) (Prior Code, § 136.04) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.05 PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATION BY OPERATOR THROWING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that the
operator of that motor vehicle has violated §
136.03 of this chapter, but that presumption may be rebutted.
(415 ILCS 105/9) (Prior Code, § 136.05)
§ 136.06 RECEPTACLES REQUIRED IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   In order to assist the public in complying with this chapter, the
owner or person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a
place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation or as a public
way shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the deposit of
litter of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the
numbers of people customarily coming on or using the property.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE
TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS includes, but is not limited to commercially operated
parks, campgrounds, drive-in restaurants, automobile service stations, business
parking lots, car washes, shopping centers, marinas, boat launching areas,
industrial parking lots, boat moorage and fueling stations, piers, beaches and
bathing areas, airports, roadside rest stops, drive-in movies and shopping
malls; and PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR ASSEMBLAGE, RECREATION OR AS A
PUBLIC WAY includes, but is not limited to, any property that is publicly owned
or operated for any of the purposes stated in the definition in this division
(B) for PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS , but
excludes state highway rights-of-way and rest areas located thereon.
(415 ILCS 105/10) (Prior Code, § 136.06) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.07 POWER OF COURT TO ORDER REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   The penalties prescribed in this chapter are in addition to, and not in lieu
of, any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or liabilities which may be
otherwise imposed or conferred by a court.
(415 ILCS 105/8) (Prior Code, § 136.07)
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
136.04 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $500.
      (2)   In addition to any fine imposed under this section, the court may
order that the person convicted of such a violation remove and properly dispose
of the litter, may employ special bailiffs to supervise such removal and
disposal and may tax the costs of such supervision as costs against the person
so convicted.
(415 ILCS 105/8(b)) (Prior Code, § 136.04)
   (C)   If no litter receptacles are placed on property described in this
section, the owner or person in control of the property shall be fined $100 for
violating §
136.06 of this chapter. If the owner or person in control of the property has
placed litter receptacles on his or her property but the number or size of the
receptacles has proved inadequate to meet the needs of the numbers of people
coming on or using his or her property as indicated by the condition and
appearance of that property, and the owner or person in control has failed to
provide sufficient or adequate receptacles within ten days after being made
aware of that fact by written notice from the police, he or she shall be fined
$25 for each receptacle not so provided and maintained.
(415 ILCS 105/10) (Prior Code, § 136.06)
(Ord. 00-106, passed 9-18-2000)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS
Section
Deadly Weapons
   
137.01   Unlawful use of weapons
   
137.02   Exemptions
   
137.03   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
   
137.04   Confiscation and disposition of weapons
Air Rifles
   
137.15   Definitions
   
137.16   Selling, renting or transferring to children; prohibition
   
137.17   Carrying or discharging on public streets
   
137.18   Permissive possession
   
137.19   Permissive sales
   
137.20   Seizure and removal
 
   
137.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Boarding aircraft with weapons, see 720 ILCS 545/0.01 through 545/7
   Firearms and ammunition registration, see 430 ILCS 65/0.01 through 65/16.3
DEADLY WEAPONS
§ 137.01 UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful use of weapons when he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries any bludgeon,
black-jack, slung-shot, sand-club, sand-bag, metal knuckles or other knuckle
weapon regardless of its composition, throwing star or any knife, commonly
referred to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically
by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of
the knife, or a ballistic knife, which is a device that propels a knifelike
blade as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic material or compressed
gas;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(1))
      (2)   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument of like character;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2))
      (3)   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, any firearm in a church, synagogue, mosque, or other building,
structure, or place used for religious worship; or
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2.5))
      (4)   Carries on or about his or her person or in any vehicle, a tear gas
gun projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a non-lethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person 18 years of age or
older;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(3))
      (5)   Carries or possesses in any vehicle or concealed on or about his or
her person except when on his or her land or in his or her own abode, legal
dwelling or fixed place of business, or on the land or in the legal dwelling of
another person as an invitee with that person’s permission, any pistol,
revolver, stun gun or taser or other firearm, except that this division (A)(5)
does not apply to or affect transportation of weapons that meet one of the
following conditions:
         (a)   Are broken down in a non-functioning state;
         (b)   Are not immediately accessible;
         (c)   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid firearm owner’s identification card; or
         (d)   Are carried or possessed in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act by a person who has been issued a currently valid license
under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(4))
      (6)   Sets a spring gun;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(5))
      (7)   (a)   Carries or possesses on or about his or her person, upon any
public street, alley, or other public lands within the village limits, except
when an invitee thereon or therein, for the purpose of the display of such
weapon or the lawful commerce in weapons, or except when on his or her land or
in his or her own abode, legal dwelling or fixed place of business, or on the
land or in the legal dwelling of another person as an invitee with that
person’s permission, any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or other firearm;
except that, this division (A)(7) does not apply to or affect transportation of
weapons that meet one of the following conditions:
            1.   Are broken down in a non-functioning state;
            2.   Are not immediately accessible;
            3.   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid firearm owner’s identification card; or
            4.   Are carried or possessed in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act by a person who has been issued a currently valid license
under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act.
         (b)   A STUN GUN OR TASER, as used in this division (A)(7) means:
            1.   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such
as, batteries, and which fires one or several barbs attached to a length of
wire and which, upon hitting a human, can send out a current capable of
disrupting the person’s nervous system in such a manner as to render him or her
incapable of normal functioning; or
            2.   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such
as batteries, and which, upon contact with a human or clothing worn by a human,
can send out current capable of disrupting the person’s nervous system in such
a manner as to render him or her incapable of normal functioning.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(10))
      (8)   Sells, manufactures, delivers, imports, possesses, or purchases any
assault weapon attachment or .50 caliber cartridge in violation of 720 ILCS 5/
24-1.9 or any explosive bullet. For purposes of this division (A)(8):
         (a)   CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal case having a projectile affixed
at the front thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end thereof, with the
propellant contained in such tube between the projectile and the cap; and
         (b)   EXPLOSIVE BULLET means the projectile portion of an ammunition
cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon
contact with the flesh of a human or an animal.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(11))
      (9)   Carries or possesses on or about his or her person while in a
building occupied by a unit of government, a billy club, other weapon of like
character, or other instrument of like character intended for use as a weapon.
For the purposes of this division (A)(9), BILLY CLUB means a short stick or
club commonly carried by police officers which is either telescopic or
constructed of a solid piece of wood or other human-made material.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(13))
      (10)   Manufactures, possesses, sells, or offers to sell, purchase,
manufacture, import, transfer, or use any device, part, kit, tool, accessory,
or combination of parts that is designed to and functions to increase the rate
of fire of a semiautomatic firearm above the standard rate of fire for
semiautomatic firearms that is not equipped with that device, part, or
combination of parts;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(14))
      (11)   Carries or possesses any assault weapon or .50 caliber rifle in
violation of 720 ILCS 5/24-1.9; or
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(15))
      (12)   Manufactures, sells, delivers, imports, or purchases any assault
weapon or .50 caliber rifle in violation of 720 ILCS 5/24-1.9.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(16))
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Crossbows, common or compound bows and underwater spearguns are
exempted from the definition of ballistic knife as defined in division (A)(1)
above.
      (2)   The provision of division (A)(1) above prohibiting the sale,
manufacture, purchase, possession, or carrying of any knife, commonly referred
to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand
pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the
knife, does not apply to a person who possesses a currently valid firearm
owner's identification card previously issued in his or her name by the
Illinois State Police or to a person or an entity engaged in the business of
selling or manufacturing switchblade knives.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(e))
(Prior Code, § 137.01) Penalty, see §
137.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning silencers on guns; machine guns; bombs; possession of
weapon in place authorized to sell intoxicating beverages or at public
gathering; possession of weapon while hooded, robed and/or masked; or
possession of weapons on school or university grounds (all of which are
felonies), see 720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(6), (7), (8), and (9) and 24-1(c),
respectively
§ 137.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Section
137.01(A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(6) and (A)(8) do not apply to or affect any of the
following:
      (1)   Peace officers, and any person summoned by a peace officer to
assist in making arrests or preserving the peace while actually engaged in
assisting the officer;
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty, or while
commuting between their homes and places of employment;
      (3)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard or the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
while in the performance of their official duty;
      (4)   Special agents employed by a railroad or a public utility to
perform police functions, and guards of armored car companies, while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or commuting
between their homes and places of employment; and watchpersons while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment;
      (5)   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private
detectives or private alarm contractors, or employed by a private security
contractor, private detective or private alarm contractor agency licensed by
the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, if their duties
include the carrying of a weapon under the provisions of the Private Detective,
Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor and Locksmith Act of 2004
(225 ILCS 447), while actually engaged in the performance of the duties of
their employment or commuting between their homes and places of employment. A
person shall be considered “eligible” for this exemption if he or she has
completed the required 20 hours of training for a private security contractor,
private detective or private alarm contractor, or employee of a licensed
private security contractor, private detective or private alarm contractor
agency and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued a firearm
control card by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation.
Conditions for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under the provisions
of this section shall be the same as for those cards issued under the
provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security,
Fingerprint Vendor and Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall be
carried by the private security contractor, private detective or private alarm
contractor, or employee of the licensed private security contractor, private
detective or private alarm contractor agency at all times when he or she is in
possession of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her firearm control
card;
      (6)   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial
operation as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to that commercial or industrial operation, while
actually engaged in the performance of his or her duty or traveling between
sites or properties belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is
a member of a security force registered with the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation; provided that, the security guard has successfully
completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 48 hours of
training that includes the theory of law enforcement, liability for acts and
the handling of weapons. A person shall be considered eligible for this
exemption if he or she has completed the required 20 hours of training for a
security officer and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued
a firearm control card by the Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation. Conditions for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under
the provisions of this section shall be the same as for those cards issued
under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security,
Fingerprint Vendor and Locksmith Act of 2004 (225 ILCS 447/5-5 et seq.). This
firearm control card shall be carried by the security guard at all times when
he or she is in possession of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her
firearm control card;
      (7)   Agents and investigators of the state’s Legislative Investigating
Commission authorized by the Commission to carry the weapons specified in §
137.01(A)(3) and (A)(4) of this chapter while on duty in the course of any
investigation for the Commission;
      (8)   Persons employed by a financial institution as a security guard for
the protection of other employees and property related to such financial
institution, while actually engaged in the performance of their duties,
commuting between their homes and places of employment, or traveling between
sites or properties owned or operated by such financial institution, and who,
as a security guard, is a member of a security force registered with the
Department of Professional and Financial Regulation; provided that, any person
so employed has successfully completed a course of study, approved by and
supervised by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation,
consisting of not less than 48 hours of training which includes theory of law
enforcement, liability for acts, and the handling of weapons.
      (9)   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored
car while actually engaged in the performance of his or her duties;
      (10)   Persons who have been classified as peace officers pursuant to the
Peace Officer Fire Investigation Act (20 ILCS 2910/0.01 et seq.);
      (11)   Investigators of the office of the State’s Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor authorized by the Board of Governors of the office of the State’s
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor to carry weapons pursuant to § 7.06 of the
State’s Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor’s Act (725 ILCS 210/1 et seq.);
      (12)   Special investigators appointed by a state’s Attorney under § 3-
9005 of the Counties Code (55 ILCS 5/3-9005);
      (13)   Probation officers while in the performance of their duties, or
while commuting between their homes, places of employment or specific locations
that are part of their assigned duties, with the consent of the Chief Judge of
the circuit for which they are employed, if they have received weapons training
according to requirements of the Peace Officer and Probation Officer Firearm
Training Act (50 ILCS 710);
      (14)   Court security officers while in the performance of their official
duties or while commuting between their homes and places of employment, with
the consent of the Sheriff;
      (15)   A person employed as an armed security guard at a nuclear energy,
storage, weapons or development site or facility regulated by the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission who has completed the background screening and training
mandated by the rules and regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; or
      (16)   Manufacture, transportation or sale of weapons to persons
authorized under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(15) above to possess those
weapons.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(a))
   (B)   Section
137.01(A)(1) of this chapter does not apply to the purchase, possession or
carrying of a black-jack or slung-shot by a police officer.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(d))
   (C)   Section
137.01(A)(4) and (A)(6) of this chapter do not apply to or affect any of the
following:
      (1)   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, while using their firearms on those target ranges;
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(f))
      (2)   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, and patrons of such ranges, while such members or patrons are using
their firearms on those target ranges;
      (3)   Duly authorized military or civil organizations while parading,
with the special permission of the Governor;
      (4)   Hunters, trappers or fishers while engaged in lawful hunting,
trapping or fishing under the provisions of the Wildlife Code or the Fish and
Aquatic Life Code;
      (5)   Transportation of weapons that are broken down in a non-functioning
state or are not immediately accessible; and
      (6)   Carrying or possessing any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or
other firearm on the land or in the legal dwelling of another person as an
invitee with that person’s permission.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(b))
   (D)   Section
137.01(A)(4) and (A)(6) of this chapter do not apply to any parole agent or
parole supervisor who meets the qualifications and conditions prescribed in §
3-14-1.5 of the Unified Code of Corrections (730 ILCS 5).
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(g-6))
   (E)   Section
137.01(A)(7) of this chapter does not apply to:
      (1)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard, while in the performance of their
official duty;
      (2)   Bona fide collectors of antique or surplus military ordnance;
      (3)   Laboratories having a department of forensic ballistics, or
specializing in the development of ammunition or explosive ordnance; or
      (4)   Commerce, preparation, assembly or possession of explosive bullets
by manufacturers of ammunition licensed by the federal government, in
connection with the supply of those organizations and persons exempted by
division (E)(1) above, or like organizations and persons outside the state, or
the transportation of explosive bullets to any organization or person exempted
in this section by a common carrier or by a vehicle owned or leased by an
exempted manufacturer.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(g))
   (F)   An information or indictment based upon a violation of any provision
of this subchapter need not negate any exemptions contained in this subchapter.
The defendant shall have the burden of proving such an exemption.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(h))
   (G)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to, or affect the
transportation, carrying or possession of any pistol or revolver, stun gun,
taser or other firearm consigned to a common carrier operating under license
with the state or the federal government where such transportation, carrying or
possession is incident to the lawful transportation in which the common carrier
is engaged. Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to, or affect the
transportation, carrying or possession of any pistol, revolver, stun gun, taser
or other firearm not the subject of and regulated by 720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(7),
which is unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box, shipping box or
other container by the possessor of a valid firearm owner’s identification
card.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(i))
(Prior Code, § 137.02)
§ 137.03 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND FIREARM AMMUNITION.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of firearms or
firearm ammunition when:
      (1)   He or she is under 18 years of age and has in his or her possession
any firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person;
      (2)   He or she is under 21 years of age, has been convicted of a
misdemeanor other than a traffic offense or adjudged delinquent, and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession;
      (3)   He or she is a narcotic addict and has any firearms or firearm
ammunition in his or her possession;
      (4)   He or she has been a patient in a mental institution within the
past five years and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her
possession. For purposes of this division (A)(4), the following words are
defined.
         MENTAL INSTITUTION. Any hospital, institution, clinic, evaluation
facility, mental health center, or part thereof, which is used primarily for
the care or treatment of persons with mental illness.
         PATIENT IN A MENTAL INSTITUTION. The person was admitted, either
voluntarily or involuntarily, to a mental institution for mental health
treatment, unless the treatment was voluntary and solely for an alcohol abuse
disorder and no other secondary substance abuse disorder or mental illness.
      (5)   He or she is a person with an intellectual disability and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession; or
      (6)   He or she has in his or her possession any explosive bullet. For
the purposes of this division (A)(6), EXPLOSIVE BULLET means the projectile
portion of an ammunition cartridge which contains or carries an explosive
charge which will explode upon contact with the flesh of a human or an animal.
CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal case having a projectile affixed at the front
thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end thereof, with the propellent
contained in the tube between the projectile and the cap.
   (B)   Unlawful possession of firearms, other than handguns and firearm
ammunition is punishable under §
130.99 of this code of ordinances. Unlawful possession of handguns is a felony
punishable under appropriate state law. The possession of each firearm or
firearm ammunition in violation of this section constitutes a single and
separate violation.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A)(1) above prohibits a person under 18 years of
age from participating in any lawful recreational activity with a firearm such
as, but not limited to, practice shooting at targets upon established public or
private target ranges or hunting, trapping or fishing in accordance with the
Wildlife Code (520 ILCS 5) or the Aquatic Life Code (515 ILCS 5).
(720 ILCS 5/24-3.1) (Prior Code, § 137.03) Penalty, see §
137.99
§ 137.04 CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS.
   Upon conviction of an offense in which a weapon was used or possessed by the
offender, any weapon seized may be confiscated by the trial court for further
disposition consistent with state law.
(720 ILCS 5/24-6) (Prior Code, § 137.04)
AIR RIFLES
§ 137.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following words and phrases shall
have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   AIR RIFLE. Any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, B.B. gun,
pellet gun or any implement that is not a firearm, which impels a pellet
constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead or other hard materials with a force
that reasonably is expected to cause bodily harm.
   DEALER. Any person, copartnership, association or corporation engaged in the
business of selling at retail or renting any of the articles included in the
definition of AIR RIFLE.
(720 ILCS 5/24.8-0.1) (Prior Code, § 137.10)
§ 137.16 SELLING, RENTING OR TRANSFERRING TO CHILDREN; PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any dealer to sell, lend, rent, give or otherwise
transfer an air rifle to any person under the age of 13 years where the dealer
knows or has cause to believe the person to be under 13 years of age or where
the dealer has failed to make reasonable inquiry relative to the age of the
person and the person is under 13 years of age.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give, lend or otherwise
transfer any air rifle to any person under 13 years of age, except where the
relationship of parent and child, guardian and ward, or adult instructor and
pupil exists between the person and the person under 13 years of age, or where
the person stands in loco parentis to the person under 13 years of age.
(720 ILCS 5/24.8-1) (Prior Code, § 137.11) Penalty, see §
137.99
§ 137.17 CARRYING OR DISCHARGING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under 13 years of age to carry any air
rifle on the public streets, roads, highways or public lands within this
village, unless the person under 13 years of age carries the rifle unloaded.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifle from or
across any street, sidewalk, road, highway or public land or any public place,
except on a safely constructed target range.
(720 ILCS 535/3) (Prior Code, § 137.12) Penalty, see §
137.99
§ 137.18 PERMISSIVE POSSESSION.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, it is lawful for any person
under 13 years of age to have in his or her possession any air rifle if it is:
   (A)   Kept within his or her house of residence or other private enclosure;
   (B)   Used by the person under 13 years of age and he or she is a duly
enrolled member of any club, team, or society organized for educational
purposes and maintaining as part of its facilities or having written permission
to use an indoor or outdoor rifle range under the supervision, guidance and
instruction of a responsible adult, and then only if the air rifle is actually
being used in connection with the activities of the club, team or society under
the supervision of a responsible adult; or
   (C)   Used in or on any private grounds or residence under circumstances
when the air rifle is fired, discharged or operated in a manner as not to
endanger persons or property and then only if it is used in a manner as to
prevent the projectile from passing over any grounds or space outside the
limits of such grounds or residence.
(720 ILCS 535/4) (Prior Code, § 137.13)
§ 137.19 PERMISSIVE SALES.
   The provisions of this subchapter do not prohibit sales of air rifles:
   (A)   By wholesale dealers or jobbers;
   (B)   To be shipped out of the state; and
   (C)   To be used at a target range operated in accordance with 720 ILCS 535/
4 or by members of the Armed Services of the United States or veterans’
organizations.
(720 ILCS 535/5) (Prior Code, § 137.14)
§ 137.20 SEIZURE AND REMOVAL.
   Any police officer shall seize, take, remove or cause to be removed at the
expense of the owner, any air rifle sold or used in any manner in violation of
this chapter.
(720 ILCS 535/6) (Prior Code, § 137.15)
§ 137.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 138: PENALTY AND SETTLEMENT OPTIONS FOR
CERTAIN VIOLATIONS
Section
   
138.01   Public service work
   
138.02   License or permit
   
138.03   Settlement of certain ordinance violations
§ 138.01 PUBLIC SERVICE WORK.
   Any person convicted of a violation of any section of the code shall be
fined, unless otherwise provided in this code, in a sum not less than $25, nor
more than $750. The penalty imposed upon conviction of a violation of any
section of this code may include, or consist of, a requirement that the
defendant perform some reasonable public service work such as, but not limited
to, the picking up of litter in public parks or along public highways or the
maintenance of public facilities.
(Ord. 10-102, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 138.02 LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to him or her by the village may be revoked by the
court or by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 10-102, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 138.03 SETTLEMENT OF CERTAIN ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Settlement of claim. Any person accused of a violation of any of the
code references listed in division (E) below may settle and compromise the
claim by paying to the village the sum listed in division (E) below.
   (B)   Ticket in lieu of arrest. The tickets issued under this section shall
be a courtesy in lieu of arrest. If the accused does not settle the claim, a
complaint or notice to appear may be issued for that violation and the accused
will be subject to penalties otherwise applicable.
   (C)   Payment. Any person wishing to settle and compromise an offense shall
pay the required amount on or before the date specified in the notice of
violation, which date will be approximately ten days from the date on which the
notice of violation is given. The payment can be made either by mailing a check
or money order, together with the violator’s copy of the ticket to the Village
of Tremont, 211 S. Sampson St., Tremont, IL 61568, or by paying the same in
person at the Tremont Village Hall during regular business hours. Checks or
money orders should be made payable to the village.
   (D)   Prosecution prevented. The members of the Police Department are hereby
authorized to refrain from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense
upon payment of the below stated amount.
   (E)   Settlement payment schedule. The following violations may be settled
without court proceedings by payment to the village of the fine listed
thereunder:
Title Section Fine Fine for Multiple Incidents
                   1st 2nd 3rd+
Title                                 Section Fine Fine for Multiple Incidents
                                                   1st  2nd  3rd+
Abandoned refrigerators               97.25   $50
Abandoned vehicle                     95.99   $25
Alcoholic beverages to minors         113.57       $100 $200 $300
Animal noises                         90.040       S50  $100 $150
Bonfires (no grass or leaves)         93.002  $50
Certain animals prohibited in village 90.057  $100
Curfew                                132.02       $50  $100 $150
Damaging village property             131.03  $100
Disorderly conduct                    132.01  $100
Dogs on private property defecation   90.042       $50  $100 $150
Fireworks                             93.081       $50  $100 $150
Foul odors, filth and the like        97.20   $25
Inoperable motor vehicle equipment    97.26   $25
Littering                             136.02  $100
Littering from motor vehicle          136.03  $100
Loud unnecessary noises prohibited    96.01   $50
Minor in possession of tobacco        134.06       $25  $50  $75
No parking                            72.01   $50
No parking disabled marked            72.17   $250
No parking in park semi               72.19   $100
No parking marked                     72.15   $50
No parking outside business           72.16   $50
Nuisances (grass/weeds over 8 inches) 97.22   $25
Obscenity                             134.02  $100
Offensive odors animals               90.054       $50  $100 $150
Parking trailers on streets           72.18   $50
Possession of cannabis/drug           134.04  $250
paraphernalia
Possession or consumption of alcohol  113.03  $100
on park property
Public indecency                      134.01  $100
Running at large                      90.041       $50  $100 $150
Snow ban parking                      72.99   $25
Trespass to land                      131.02  $100
Unlawful use of weapon                137.01  $100
 
(Ord. 10-102, passed 3-15-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING
      
154.   FLOODPLAINS
      
155.   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
      
156.   TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES
      
157.   SCHEDULE OF FEES FOR LAND USE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Codes
   
150.001   Adoption of Commercial Building Code by reference
   
150.002   Building permits; fees
   
150.003   Adoption of Existing Building Code by reference
Property Maintenance Code
   
150.015   Adoption of Property Maintenance Code by reference
Electrical Code
   
150.030   Adoption of National Electrical Code by reference
Plumbing Code
   
150.045   Adoption of National Plumbing Code by reference
Signs
   
150.060   Zoning regulations prevail
Fire Code
   
150.075   Adoption of International Fire Code by reference
Mechanical Code
   
150.090   Adoption of International Mechanical Code by reference
Energy Conservation Code
   
150.105   Adoption of International Energy Conservation Code
Residential Code
   
150.120   Adoption of International Residential Code by reference
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING CODES
§ 150.001 ADOPTION OF COMMERCIAL BUILDING CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, the most current edition of that certain building code known as
the“2015 International Building Code,” published by the International Code
Council, Inc.; Appendices G, H and J thereto; and the amendments prescribed in
division (B) below are hereby adopted as the “Building Code of the Village of
Tremont, Illinois” (the “Commercial Building Code”). The Village Clerk is
hereby authorized and directed to maintain on file one copy of the Commercial
Building Code as herein adopted.
   (B)   Amendments. The Commercial Building Code is hereby adopted with the
following amendments.
      (1)   Section 101.1. Section 101.1 is hereby amended by substituting
“Village of Tremont, Illinois” for the words “[NAME OF JURISDICTION];”
      (2)   Section 103.1. Section 103.1 is hereby repealed, and a new § 103.1
is adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
      “103.1 Department of Building Safety, Code Official defined. The term
“Department of Building Safety” as used in this code shall mean the Code
Compliance Officer of the Village of Tremont. The terms “building official” and
“code official” as used in this code shall mean the duly appointed Code
Compliance Official of the Village of Tremont, Illinois and any designee
thereof.”
      (3)   (a)   Section 105.2. Section 105.2, “inclusive,” is repealed, and a
new § 105.2 is adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
      “105.2 Exemptions from permit requirements of this code shall not be
deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of
this jurisdiction. Permits are not required for the following:
      Building:
         1.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area is not greater than
80 square feet.
         2.   Fences not over 2 feet in height.
         3.   The replacement of a portion or portions of an existing fence,
within any 12-month period, which is less than twenty-five (25%) of its total
linear horizontal distance (whether interrupted or not), or 300 square feet of
fence surface, whichever is less, with the same material, at the same height,
in the same location.
         4.   Retaining walls that are not over 2 feet in height measured from
the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a surcharge
or impounding Class I, II or IIIA liquids.
         5.   Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity is not
greater than 200 gallons and the ratio of height to diameter or width is not
greater than 2:1.
         6.   Sidewalks and driveways not more than 30 inches above adjacent
grade, not over any basement or story below, are not part of an accessible
route, and are on private property.
         7.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and
similar finish work.
         8.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and
scenery.
         9.   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a Group R-3 occupancy
that are less than 24 inches deep, are not greater than 5,000 gallons and are
installed entirely above ground.
         10.   Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural
purposes, not including service systems.
         11.   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to detached one-
and two-family dwellings.
         12.   Window awnings in Group R-3 and U occupancies, supported by an
exterior wall that do not project more than 54 inches from the exterior wall
and do not require additional support.
         13.   Non-fixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and
partitions not over 5 feet 9 inches in height.
         14.   Repairs for less than substantial structural damage as defined
in Chapter 6 of the Existing Building Code.
      Electrical:
         1.   Repairs and maintenance: Minor repair work, including the
replacement of lamps, receptacles, and switches or the connection of approved
portable electrical equipment to approved permanently installed receptacles.
         2.   Radio and television transmitting stations: The provisions of
this code shall not apply to electrical equipment used for radio and television
transmissions but, do apply to equipment and wiring for a power supply and the
installations of towers and antennas.
         3.   Temporary testing systems: A permit shall not be required for the
installation of any temporary system required for the testing or servicing of
electrical equipment or apparatus.
      Gas:
         1.   Portable heating appliance.
         2.   Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of
equipment or make such equipment unsafe.
      Mechanical:
         1.   Portable heating appliance.
         2.   Portable ventilation equipment.
         3.   Portable cooling unit.
         4.   Steam, hot or chilled water piping within any heating or cooling
equipment regulated by this code.
         5.   Replacement of any part that does not alter its approval or make
it unsafe.
         6.   Portable evaporative cooler.
         7.   Self-contained refrigeration system containing 10 pounds or less
of refrigerant and actuated by motors of 1 horsepower or less.
      Plumbing:
         1.   The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent pipe,
provided, however, that if any concealed trap, drain pipe, water, soil, waste
or vent pipe becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and replace
the same with new material, such work shall be considered as new work and a
permit shall be obtained and inspection made as provided in this code.
         2.   The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes,
valves or fixtures and the removal and reinstallation of water closets,
provided such repairs do not involve or require the replacement or
rearrangement of valves, pipes or fixtures.”
            (b)   Section 105.2.1. Section 105.2.1, “Emergency Repairs,” shall
be amended with “Where equipment replacements and repairs must be performed in
an emergency, the permit application shall be submitted within the next working
business day to the building official.”
            (c)   Section 105.2.2. Section 105.2.2, “Repairs,”shall be amended
with “Application or notice to the building official is not required for
ordinary repairs to structures, replacement of lamps or the connection of
approved portable electrical equipment to approved permanently installed
receptacles. Such repairs shall not include the removal or cutting of any
structural beam, wall, or load-bearing support. Ordinary repairs do not include
the removal or change of any required means of egress, or rearrangement of
parts of a structure affecting the egress requirements; nor shall ordinary
repairs include addition to, alteration of, replacement or relocation of any
water supply, sewer waste piping, electrical, mechanical, or other work
affecting public health or general safety.”
            (d)   Section 105.2.3. Section 105.2.3, “Public Service Agencies,”
shall be amended with “A permit shall not be required for the installation,
alteration or repair of generation, transmission, distribution or metering or
other related equipment that is under the ownership and control of public
service agencies by established right.”
      (4)   Section 109.2. Section 109.2 is hereby amended by substituting “by
written order or resolution of the Village Board” for the words “by the
applicable governing authority.”
      (5)   Section 109.6. Section 109.6 is hereby repealed, and a new § 109.6
is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
      “109.6 Refunds. No portion of any fee shall be returned to a permit
holder in the case of a revocation of a building permit or a suspension,
discontinuance, or abandonment of work.”
      (6)   Section 113.0. Section 113.0 is hereby repealed in its entirety and
a new § 113.0 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
      “Section 113.0 Means of Appeal
         113.1   Means of Appeal. Any person affected by a decision of the code
official or a notice or order issued under this code shall have the right of
appeal per the following provisions:
      Appeals Process
         1.   Any person receiving a violation notice pursuant to this section
shall have the right to appeal to the Village Zoning Board.
         2.   Such an appeal shall be in writing and filed with the Village
Clerk within fourteen (14) days of the date of the violation notice. The appeal
shall contain a complete statement of the reasons for the appeal, the specific
facts supporting the appeal, and all evidence the appellant intends to rely on
to support the appeal.
         3.   If no appeal is filed within fourteen (14) days of the date of
the violation notice or decision of the building official, and pursuant to the
requirements of this section, the right to an appeal is waived.
         4.   The Village President (or designee) shall schedule a meeting with
the Village Zoning Board at the next regularly scheduled meeting after
receiving the appeal.
         5.   The Village Zoning Board may consider all facts, evidence, and
testimony presented by the appellant and the village building official or
designee, and all other information determined to be relevant to the appeal.
The Zoning Board may obtain professional input from the Village Attorney and/or
Village Engineer.
         6.   The Village Zoning Board chair (or designee) shall send written
notice of the decision to the owner and the Village President within thirty
(30) days of hearing the appeal. The decision of the Zoning Board will be kept
on file by the Village Clerk.
         7.   The subject property may not be let for occupancy, sold and/or
transferred while any appeal is pending.
         8.   The Village President (or designee) and the Zoning Board shall
have no authority to interpret the administrative provisions of the code or to
waive substantive requirements of the code.”
      (7)   Section 114. Section 114, “Violations,” is hereby amended and
adopted in addition to the Commercial Building Code and is hereby incorporated
as if fully set forth therein by adding the following to § 114.4:
      “Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of a violation of this
code shall be punished by a fine to be adopted by resolution of the Village
Board. Such fine shall be a minimum fine for first time offense and increase to
a maximum fine for multiple violations. With respect to violations of this code
that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a
separate offense.
         1.   114.4.1 The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation
or suspension of a license, permit or franchise.
         2.   114.4.2 Violations of this code that are continuous with respect
to time may be abated by injunctive or equitable relief. The imposition of a
penalty does not prevent equitable relief.”
      (8)   Section 117. The following § 117, “Maintenance of Construction
Sites,” including additional regulations and requirements are hereby adopted in
addition to the Building Code and are hereby incorporated as if fully set forth
therein.
      “117.1 Dumpsters.
         1.   Each building construction site shall have on-site dumpster(s) of
sufficient capacity to contain the construction debris generated by the
construction activity on said site.
         2.   All construction debris from each building construction site,
shall be placed in the construction site dumpster(s), by the end of each
workday.
         3.   Every construction site dumpster, having been filled, shall be
removed from the construction site and where appropriate, replaced with another
empty dumpster until such time as construction debris is no longer generated on
the site.
      117.2 Rocked Driveways
         1.   Each construction site or subdivision construction site entrance
shall have its driveway or roadway (as delineated on the building permit
application site plan) rocked with coarse aggregate to a minimum depth of 6
inches. This subsection may not be required if the permanent paved driveway or
entry road is in place and can be used by all construction equipment or
delivery vehicles.
         2.   Rock drives or roadways must be constructed and maintained on
stable soil in order to maintain the desired intent or the rock shall be
replaced and/or soil stabilization may be required, as directed by the Code
Official.
         3.   All deliveries of building materials, of all kinds, shall be made
using the rocked road or driveway, without exception.
      117.3 Sanitary Facilities
      Each building construction site shall provide sanitary facilities
(including toileting and hand washing facilities) for the convenience of all
workers and shall be discharged into a sanitary sewer or if the facility is
portable, it shall be an enclosed, chemically treated tank tight unit. All non-
sewered units shall be pumped regularly to assure adequate working and sanitary
facilities.
      117.4 Responsibility
      It shall be the responsibility of the permit holder and any individual or
company acting under the direction of the permit holder to ensure compliance of
all provisions of Section 117.”
      (9)   Conflict. Should there be any conflicts between the provisions of
the Chapters 29 and the Illinois State Plumbing Code; the Illinois State
Plumbing Code shall take precedence.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 19-113, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 150.002 BUILDING PERMITS; FEES.
   Fees and fines for all permits, inspections and violations shall be
established by resolution of the Village Board.
(Ord. 19-113, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 150.003 ADOPTION OF EXISTING BUILDING CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Adoption. Adoption of the “2015 International Existing Building Code,”
published by the International Code Council, Inc. and the amendments prescribed
in division (B) below are hereby adopted as the “Existing Building Code of the
Village of Tremont, Illinois” (“Existing Building Code”). The Village Clerk is
hereby authorized and directed to maintain on file one copy of the Existing
Building Code as herein adopted.
   (B)   Amendments. The Existing Building Code is hereby adopted with the
following amendments as follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Section 101.1 is hereby amended by substituting
“Village of Tremont, Illinois” for the words “[NAME OF JURISDICTION].”
      (2)   Section 103.1. Section 103.1 is hereby repealed in its entirety and
a new § R103.1 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“Section 103.1 Department of Building Safety, Code Official defined
103.1 General. The term "department of building safety" wherever used in this
code shall mean the Code Compliance Officer of the Village of Tremont,
Illinois. The term “code official” or “building official” as used in this code
shall mean the duly appointed Code Official of the Village of Tremont, Illinois
and any designee thereof.
      (3)   Section 103.2. Section 103.2., “Deputies,” inclusive is hereby
repealed in its entirety.
      (4)   Section 108.2. Section 108.2 is hereby amended by substituting “by
written order or resolution of the Village Board of Trustees” for the words “by
the applicable governing authority.”
      (5)   Section 108.6. Section 108.6 is hereby repealed, and a new § 108.6
is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“108.6 Refunds. No portion of any fee shall be returned to a permit holder in
the case of a building permit or a suspension, discontinuance, or abandonment
of work.”
      (6)   Section 112. Section 112 is hereby repealed in its entirety and a
new § 112 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“Section 112 Means of Appeal
112.1 Means of Appeal. Any person affected by a decision of the Code Official
or a notice of order issued under this code shall have the right of appeal per
the process established by Section 113 of the Commercial Building Code, which
shall additionally govern the grounds and regulate the procedures for such
appeals.”
      (7)   Section 113.4. Section 113.4 is hereby repealed in its entirety and
a new § 113.4 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“113.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of this code or shall fail to comply with any order issued pursuant to any
section of this code, upon conviction therefor, shall be punished in accordance
with the provisions set forth in Section 114.4 of Section 3, Commercial
Building Code.”
      (8)   Section 117.3. Add the following sentence to § 117.3: “The Village
shall comply with Illinois law as stated in 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 (or other current
law) pertaining to the demolition of unsafe and abandoned buildings.”
(Ord. 19-113, passed 10-21-2019)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.015 ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, the most current edition of that certain housing code known as the
“2015 International Property Maintenance Code,” published by the International
Code Council, Inc. and the amendments prescribed in division (B) below are
hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the Village of Tremont,
Illinois” (the “Property Maintenance Code”). The Village Clerk is hereby
authorized and directed to maintain on file one copy of the Property
Maintenance Code as herein adopted.
   (B)   Amendments. The Property Maintenance Code is hereby adopted with the
following amendments as follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Section 101.1 is hereby amended by substituting
“Village of Tremont, Illinois” for the words “[NAME OF JURISDICTION].”
      (2)   Section 103. Section 103 is hereby amended as follows:
“Section 103 Code Official and Department;
103.1 General. The term “department of property maintenance inspection”
wherever used in this code shall mean the Code Compliance Officer of Tremont,
Illinois. The terms “code official” and/or “building official” as used in this
code shall mean the duly appointed Code Official of the Village of Tremont,
Illinois and any designee thereof.”
      (3)   Section 103.5. Section 103.5 is hereby repealed, and a new § 103.5
is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“103.5 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the code
official in carrying out his or her responsibilities under this code shall be
as established by written order or resolution of the Village Board.”
      (4)   Section 106.4. Section 106.4 is hereby repealed in its entirety and
a new § 106.4 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“106.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of this code or shall fail to comply with any order issued pursuant to any
section of this code, upon conviction therefor, shall be punished in accordance
with the provisions set forth in Section 114.4 of Section 3, Commercial
Building Code.”
      (5)   Section 108.8. The following is added as § 108.8:
“In accordance with ILCS Chapter 65, Act 5 subsection 11-31-2, if the Code
Enforcement Officer determines upon due investigation that any building or
structure located within the village fails to conform to the minimum standards
of health and safety as set forth in this chapter, and the owner or owner of
such building or structure fails, after due notice to cause such property so to
conform, the village may make application to any court of competent
jurisdiction for an injunction requiring compliance with the applicable section
of this chapter or for such other order as the court may deem necessary or
appropriate to secure such compliance.”
      (6)   Section 110.3. The following paragraph is added to § 110.3:
“The village may demolish, repair or cause the demolition or repair of
dangerous or unsafe buildings or uncompleted or abandoned buildings in
accordance with ILCS Chapter 65, Act 5 subsection 11-31-1. The cost of such
demolition or repair is recoverable from the owner or owners of such real
estate and is a lien therein, which is a lien superior to all prior existing
liens except taxes, provided that within 60 days after such repair or
demolition notice of the lien in the office of the recorder of deeds.”
      (7)   Section 111. Section 111 is hereby repealed in its entirety and a
new § 111 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“Section 111 Means of Appeal
“111.1 Means of Appeal. Any person affected by a decision of the code official
or a notice of order issued under this code shall have the right of appeal per
the provisions established by Section 113 of the Commercial Building Code, if
provisions of this code shall regulate the procedures for such appeals.”
      (8)   Section 112.4. In § 112.4, “Failure to Comply,” the words “of not
less than [amount] dollars or more than [amount] dollars” shall be replaced
with “to be established by resolution of the Village Board.”
      (9)   Section 202. In § 202 General Definitions the following definition
shall be added:
“Responsible Party. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner or owner’s
designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings,
structures and premises. In addition, any other person or entity who may be
reasonably considered to have a role or responsibility in the creation,
continuation, or correction of any violation of this code shall be a
responsible party of additional responsibility for such violation.”
      (10)   Section 302.4. Section 302.4, “Weeds,” shall have “eight inches”
inserted as the jurisdiction requirement.
      (11)   Section 304.14. In § 304.14, “Insect Screens,” “from April 1st to
October 31st” shall be inserted.
      (12)   Section 602.3. In § 602.3, “Heat Supply,” “from September 15th to
June 1st” shall be inserted.
      (13)   Section 602.4. In § 602.4, “Occupiable Work Spaces,” “from
September 15th to June 1st,” shall be inserted.
      (14)   Section 704.2.1. The following § 704.2.1, shall be amended to add
item 4., as follows:
“Dwellings equipped with battery-operated smoke detection devices and carbon
monoxide detection devices located inside a dwelling unit shall have batteries
provided by the owner at the beginning of tenancy. Thereafter, it shall be the
responsibility of the occupant to ensure batteries are energized and effective
during the term of occupancy.”
(Prior Code, § 150.15) (Ord. 19-113, passed 10-21-2019)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.030 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Adoption. All electric wiring, installation of electrical fixtures,
apparatus or electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat or power, or
other electrical work introduced into or placed in or upon, or in any way
connected to, any building or structure within the limits of the village shall
be in conformity with the provisions set forth in the most current edition
Adoption of the “2014 National Electric Code” published by the National Fire
Protection Association and the amendments prescribed in division (B) below are
hereby adopted as the “Electric Code of the Village of Tremont, Illinois” (the
“Electric Code”). The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to
maintain on file one copy of the Electric Code as herein adopted.
   (B)   Amendments. The Electrical Code is hereby adopted with the following
amendment, being § 90-4, “Enforcement,” is hereby amended by adding thereto the
following provisions:
“The duly appointed Code Compliance Officer of the Village of Tremont, Illinois
and authorized designee are hereby authorized and designated to carry out the
enforcement provisions of this code.
Means of Appeal. Any person affected by a decision of the code official or a
notice or order issued under this code shall have the right of appeal per the
process established by section 113 of the Commercial Building Code, which shall
additionally govern the grounds and regulate the procedures for such appeals.”
(Prior Code, § 150.25) (Ord. 19-113, passed 10-21-2019)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.045 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL PLUMBING CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing
minimum standards of design, materials and workmanship for all plumbing
hereafter installed, altered or repaired and to establish methods of procedure
within the limits of the village the most current edition of that certain
plumbing code known as the“Illinois Plumbing Code 77 IL Admin Code 890”
published by the Illinois Department of Public Health and the amendments
prescribed in division (B) below are hereby adopted as the “Plumbing Code of
the Village of Tremont, Illinois” (the “Plumbing Code”). The Village Clerk is
hereby authorized and directed to maintain on file one copy of the Plumbing
Code as herein adopted.
   (B)   Amendments. The Plumbing Code is hereby adopted with the following
amendments:
      “(1)   Fixtures in basements shall discharge into a sump and be pumped by
automatic sewage pumping equipment. The sewage sump shall not receive sub-
surface water from foundation drains or building downspouts; and
      (2)   Foundation drains and building downspouts shall not be connected to
the sewage drainage system. Foundation drains shall discharge into an isolated
sump and be pumped by automatic pumping equipment and discharged into the back
yard or a storm drain line designed for such purposes.”
(Prior Code, § 150.35) (Ord. 19-113, passed 10-21-2019)
SIGNS
§ 150.060 ZONING REGULATIONS PREVAIL.
   Section
153.200  of
Chapter 153  provides regulations for signs. Where the provisions of this
chapter conflict with the provisions of §
153.200 , §
153.200  shall govern.
(Ord. 19-113, passed 10-21-2019)
FIRE CODE
§ 150.075 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted a fire code for the village, known
as the “2015 International Fire Code,” published by the International Code
Council, Inc.; Appendices B, C, D and E thereto; and the amendments prescribed
in division (B) below are hereby adopted as the “Fire Code of the Village of
Tremont, Illinois” (the “Fire Code”). The Village Clerk is hereby authorized
and directed to maintain on file one copy of the Fire Code as herein adopted.
   (B)   Amendments. The Fire Code is hereby adopted with the following
amendments:.
      (1)   Section 101.1. Section 101.1 is hereby amended by substituting
“Village of Tremont, Illinois” for the words “[NAME OF JURISDICTION]” and by
adding the sentence “The term ‘jurisdiction’ wherever appearing in this code
shall mean the Village of Tremont, Illinois.”
      (2)   Section 103. Section 103, “Department of Fire Prevention,” is
hereby amended as follows:
“103.1 Department of Fire Prevention and Fire Code Official, defined. The term
“Department of Fire Prevention” as used in this code shall mean the Fire
Protection District of the Village of Tremont, IL. The term “fire code
official” as used in this code shall mean the duly appointed Fire Chief of the
Village of Tremont Fire Protection District and any designee thereof.”
      (3)   Section 103.2. Section 103.2 is hereby repealed in its entirety.
      (4)   Section 104.1. Section 104.1, “General,” is hereby amended by
adding the following text:
“The Code Official shall not exercise any authority over fire service features
regarding fire scenes or any other sections of this code that pertain to
operation of and/or duties performed by the Tremont Fire Protection District.
Those duties and authority remain with the Tremont Fire Protection District
Fire Chief or Designee.”
      (5)   Section 105. Section 105, “Permits,” is hereby amended by adding §
105.1.4, hereby adopted as follows:
“105.1.4 Fee schedule. A fee for each plan examination, building permit, and
inspection shall be paid to the Village Clerk at the rate or rates established
by written order or resolution of the Village Board.”
(6)   Section 113.2. Section 113.2 is hereby amended by substituting “by
written order or resolution of the Village Board of Trustees” for the words “by
the applicable governing authority.”
      (7)   Section 108.0. Section 108.0 is hereby repealed in its entirety and
a new § 108.0 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“Section 108.0 Means of Appeal
      (8)   Section 109.3. Section 109.3 is hereby repealed in its entirety and
a new § 109.3 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“109.3 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of this code or shall fail to comply with any order issued pursuant to any
section of this code, upon conviction therefor, shall be punished in accordance
with the provisions set forth in Section 114.4 of the Commercial Building
Code.”
(Ord. 19-113, passed 10-21-2019)
MECHANICAL CODE
§ 150.090 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted a mechanical code for the village,
known as the“2015 International Mechanical Code,” published by the
International Code Council, Inc.; Appendix A thereto; and the amendments
prescribed in division (B) below are hereby adopted as the “Mechanical Code of
the Village of Tremont, Illinois” (the “Mechanical Code”). The Village Clerk is
hereby authorized and directed to maintain on file, one copy of the Fire Code
as herein adopted.
   (B)   Amendments. The Mechanical Code is hereby adopted with the following
amendments.
      (1)   Section 101.1. Section 101.1 is hereby amended by substituting
“Village of Tremont, Illinois” for the words “[NAME OF JURISDICTION].”
      (2)   Section 103. Section 103 is hereby amended as follows:
“Section 103 Code Official.
1.   103-1 General. The term “department of mechanical inspection” wherever
used in this code shall mean the Code Compliance Officer of the Village of
Tremont, Illinois. The terms “code official” and/or “building official” as used
in this code shall mean the duly appointed Code Official of the Village of
Tremont, Illinois and any designee thereof.
2.   Section 103.5 Alternative for Third Party Review. In instances where
determined necessary, the Code Compliance Officer may obtain third party
written verification that a mechanical system is functional and compliant.”
      (3)   Section 106.5.2. Section 106.5.2 is hereby amended, and a new §
106.5.2 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“106.5.2 Fee schedule. A fee for each plan examination, building permit, and
inspection shall be paid to the Village Clerk at the rate or rates established
by written order or resolution of the Village Board of Trustees.”
      (4)   Section 106.5.3. Section 106.5.3 is hereby repealed in its
entirety.
      (5)   Section 108.4. Section 108.4 is hereby repealed in its entirety and
a new § 108.4 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“108.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of this code or shall fail to comply with any order issued pursuant to any
section of this code, upon conviction therefor, shall be punished in accordance
with the provisions set forth in Section 114.4 of Section 3, Commercial
Building Code.”
      (6)   Section 109.0. Section 109.0 is hereby repealed in its entirety and
a new § 109.0 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“Section 109.0 Means of Appeal:
(Ord. 19-113, passed 10-21-2019)
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
§ 150.105 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted an energy conservation code for the
village, known as the “2015 International Energy Conservation Code”published by
the International Code Council, Inc.; the amendments thereto; and the currently
adopted “Illinois Energy Conservation Code” revisions prescribed in division
(B) below are hereby adopted as the “Energy Code of the Village of Tremont”
(“Energy Conservation Code”).
   (B)    Amendments. The Energy Conservation Code is hereby adopted with the
following amendments.
      (1)   Section Cl 07.1. Section Cl 07.1 is hereby amended by substituting
“Village of Tremont, Illinois” for the words “[NAME OF JURISDICTION].”
      (2)   Section Cl 07.2. Section Cl 07.2 is hereby repealed in its entirety
and a new § 107.2 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“C 107.2 Fee schedule. A fee for each plan examination, building permit and
inspection shall be paid to the Village at the rate or rates established by
written order or resolution of the Village Board of Trustees.”
      (3)   Section C107.5. Section C107.5 is hereby repealed and a new §
C107.5 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“C107.5 Refunds. No portion of any fee shall be returned to a permit holder in
the case of a building permit or a suspension, discontinuance, or abandonment
of work.”
      (4)   Section C108.4. Section C108.4 is hereby repealed in its entirety
and a new Section C108.4 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“C 108.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of this code or shall fail to comply with any order issued pursuant
to any section of this code, upon conviction therefor, shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 114.4 of Section 3,
Commercial Building Code.”
      (5)   Section 109. Section 109 is hereby repealed in its entirety and a
new § 109 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“Section 109 Means of Appeal
109.1 Means of Appeal. Any person affected by a decision of the Code Official
or a notice of order issued under this code shall have the right of appeal per
the process established by Section 113 of the Commercial Building Code, which
shall additionally govern the grounds and regulate the procedures for such
appeals.”
(Ord. 19-113, passed 10-21-2019)
RESIDENTIAL CODE
§ 150.120 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted a residential code for the village,
known as the “2015 International Residential Code,” published by the
International Code Council, Inc.; Appendix G and H thereto; and the amendments
prescribed in division (B) below are hereby adopted as the “Residential Code of
the Village of Tremont, Illinois” (the “Residential Code”).
   (B)   Amendments. The Residential Code (§
150.120) is hereby adopted with the following amendments.
      (1)   Section R101.1. Section R101.1 is hereby amended by substituting
“Village of Tremont, Illinois” for the words “[NAME OF JURISDICTION].”
      (2)   Section R103.1. Section R103.1 is hereby repealed in its entirety
and a new § R103.1 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“Section R103.1 Department of Building Safety, Code Official defined
R103.1 General. The term “department of building safety” wherever used in this
code shall mean the Code Compliance Officer of Tremont, Illinois. The terms
“building official” or “code official” as used in this code shall mean the duly
appointed Code Official of the Village of Tremont, Illinois and any designee
thereof.”
      (3)   Section 103.2. Section 103.2, “Appointment,” inclusive is hereby
repealed in its entirety.
      (4)   Section R105.2. Section R105.2, “Building,” is repealed, and a new
§ R105.2 Building is adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“R105.2 Exemptions from permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to
grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the
provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction.
Permits are not required for the following:
Building:
1.   One-story detached accessory structures provided the floor area is not
greater than 80 square feet.
2.   Fences not over 2 feet in height.
3.   The replacement of a portion or portions of an existing fence, within any
12-month period, which is less than twenty-five (25%) of its total linear
horizontal distance (whether interrupted or not), or 300 square feet of fence
surface, whichever is less, with the same material, at the same height, in the
same location.
4.   Retaining walls that are not over 2 feet in height measured from the
bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a surcharge or
impounding Class I, II or IIIA liquids.
5.   Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity is not greater
than 200 gallons and the ratio of height to diameter or width is not greater
than 2:1.
6.   Sidewalks and driveways not more than 30 inches above adjacent grade, not
over any basement or story below, are not part of an accessible route, and are
on private property.
7.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and similar
finish work.
8.   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a Group R-3 occupancy that are
less than 24 inches deep, are not greater than 5,000 gallons and are installed
entirely above ground.
9.   Swings and other playground equipment.
10.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall that do not project more
than 54 inches from the exterior wall and do not require additional support.
11.   Decks not exceeding 80 square feet in area, that are not more than 30
inches above grade at any point, and do not serve the exit door required by
Section R311.4.
12.   Repairs for less than substantial structural damage as defined in Chapter
6 of the Existing Building Code.”
      (5)   Section R105.2. Exemptions for Electrical, Gas, Mechanical and
Plumbing in § R105.2 are not changed.
      (6)   Section R108.2. Section R108.2 is hereby amended by substituting
“by written order or resolution of the Village Board” for the words “by the
applicable governing authority.”
      (7)   Section R108.5. Section R108.5 is hereby repealed and a new §
R108.5 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“R108.5 Refunds. No portion of any fee shall be returned to a permit holder in
the case of a building permit or a suspension, discontinuance, or abandonment
of work.”
      (8)   Section R112. Section R112 is hereby repealed in its entirety and a
new § R112 is hereby
adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“Section R112 Means of Appeal
R112.1 Means of Appeal. Any person affected by a decision of the code official
or a notice of order issued under this code shall have the right of appeal to
the a as established by Section 113 of the Commercial Building Code, which
shall additionally govern the grounds and regulate the procedures for such
appeals.”
      (9)   Section R113.4. Section R113.4 is hereby repealed in its entirety
and a new § 113.4 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as follows:
“R113.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of this code or shall fail to comply with any order issued pursuant to any
section of this code, upon conviction therefor, shall be punished in accordance
with the provisions set forth in Section 114.4 of Section 3, Commercial
Building Code.”
      (10)   Section 115. The following § 115, named “Maintenance of
Construction Sites,” including additional regulations and requirements are
hereby adopted in addition to the Building Code and are hereby incorporated as
if fully set forth therein.
“115.1 Dumpsters
1.   Each building construction site shall have on-site dumpster(s) of
sufficient capacity to contain the construction debris generated by the
construction activity on said site.
2.   All construction debris from each building construction site, shall be
placed in the construction site dumpster(s), by the end of each workday.
3.   Every construction site dumpster, having been filled, shall be removed
from the construction site and where appropriate, replaced with another empty
dumpster until such time as construction debris is no longer generated on the
site.
115.2 Rocked Driveways
1.   Each residential building construction site shall have its driveway (as
delineated on the building permit application site plan) rocked with course
aggregate to minimum depth of 6 inches.
2.   Rock drives or roadways must be constructed and maintained on stable soil
in order to maintain the desired intent or the rock shall be replaced and/or
soil stabilization may be required, as directed by the Code Official.
3.   All deliveries of building materials, of all kinds, shall be made using
the rocked road or driveway, without exception.
115.3 Sanitary Facilities
If a residential construction site provides sanitary facilities (including
toileting and hand washing facilities) for the convenience of all workers, said
facility shall be discharged into a sanitary sewer. If the facility is
portable, it shall be an enclosed, chemically treated tank tight unit. All non-
sewered units shall be pumped regularly to assure adequate working and sanitary
facilities.
115.4 Responsibility
It shall be the responsibility of the permit holder and any individual or
company acting under the direction of the permit holder to ensure compliance of
all provisions of Section 115.”
      (11)   Section R302.2. Section R302.2, “Townhouses,” is repealed in its
entirety to insert:
“Section R302.2 Townhouses. Each townhouse shall be considered a separate
building and shall be separated by fire-resistant-rated wall assemblies meeting
the requirements of Section R302.1 for exterior walls.
Exceptions:
1.   A common 1-hour-fire-resistance-wall assembly tested in accordance with
ASTM-E-119 or UL 263 is permitted for townhouse protected by a residential fire
sprinkler system if such walls do not contain plumbing or mechanical equipment,
ducts or vents in the cavity of the common wall. The wall shall be rated for
fire exposure from both sides and shall extend to and be tight against exterior
walls and the underside of the roof sheathing. Electrical installations shall
be installed in accordance with currently adopted National Electric Code (NEC).
Penetrations of electrical outlet boxes shall be in accordance with Section
R302.4.
2.   A common 2-hour-fire-resistance-wall assembly tested in accordance with
ASTM-E-119 or UL 263 is required for townhouses not protected by a residential
fire sprinkler system if such walls do not contain plumbing or mechanical
equipment, ducts or vents in the cavity of the common wall. The wall shall be
rated for fire exposure from both sides and shall extend to and be tight
against exterior walls and the underside of the roof sheathing. Electrical
installations shall be installed in accordance with currently adopted National
Electric Code (NEC). Penetrations of electrical outlet boxes shall be in
accordance with Section R302.4.”
      (12)   Section R303.4. Section R303.4, “Mechanical Ventilation,” is
hereby repealed and a new § R303.4 is hereby adopted in lieu thereof as
follows:
“R303.4 Reserved.”
      (13)   Section R313.2. Section R313.2 Sprinklers in residential
structures is repealed in its entirety and insert:
“Section R313.2 One and Two-Family Dwellings Automatic Fire Systems. A builder
of one- and two-family dwellings to be constructed for a prospective purchaser
shall offer to the purchaser at the time of entering into the construction/
purchase contract the option, at the purchaser’s cost, to install or equip fire
sprinklers in the dwelling, residence or unit. No purchaser of such one- or
two-family dwelling shall be denied the right to choose or decline to install a
fire sprinkler system in such dwelling or residence being purchased. Written
verification by the builder affirming that a fire sprinkler system was offered
to the purchasers at the time of entry into construction/purchase contract must
be included in the permit application. Residential properties constructed by a
builder for the purpose of selling shall submit a signed written statement
indicating if the house will, or will not, include a sprinkler system. The
builder shall notify all prospective buyers in writing that the house does, or
does not, include a sprinkler system.”
      (14)   Section R403.1.4. Section R403.1.4 is hereby amending by
substituting “24 inches” at text reading “12 inches.”
      (15)   Section R403.1.4.1. Section R403.1.4.1, “Frost Protection,” is
hereby amended by substituting “200 square feet" under “Exceptions (1) and (2)”
for “600 square feet” and “400 square feet,” respectively.
      (16)   Conflict. Should there be any conflicts between the provisions of
the Chapters 25 through 32 (inclusive) and the Illinois State Plumbing Code,
the Illinois State Plumbing Code shall take precedence.
(Ord. 19-113, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 151: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Scope
   
151.02   Definition
Permit Provisions
   
151.15   Permit required; application
   
151.16   Plans and other pertinent data to be submitted
   
151.17   Fee
Standards for Construction
   
151.30   Location of swimming pool
   
151.31   Design and construction requirements
   
151.32   Recirculation types required
   
151.33   Recirculation system and appurtenances
   
151.34   Disinfection
   
151.35   Inlets
   
151.36   Electrical requirements
   
151.37   Inspections
Standards for Operation
   
151.50   Operation and maintenance
   
151.51   Inspection; abatement; appeal
   
151.52   Records
   
151.53   Interference with enjoyment of property rights prohibited
   
151.54   Shielding lights
   
151.55   Unnecessary noise
   
151.56   Bathing suit required
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply to all new and existing private swimming pools,
except where otherwise indicated herein.
(Prior Code, § 151.01)
§ 151.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any swimming pool or wading pool over 24 inches in depth, or
with a surface area exceeding 250 square feet, at a private residence, intended
only for the use by the individual owner, his or her family and friends invited
to use same without payment of any fee. This includes, but is not limited to,
portable or temporary pools of plastic, rubberized cloth or similar materials
installed either above or below ground elevation. However, this chapter shall
not apply to public swimming pools, their equipment and operation, which comply
with the Minimum Sanitary Requirements for Swimming Pools of the state’s
Department of Public Health.
(Prior Code, § 151.02)
PERMIT PROVISIONS
§ 151.15 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall proceed to construct a swimming pool or make any major
alteration, addition, remodeling or other improvement at an existing swimming
pool without having first obtained a permit therefor issued and signed by the
Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   No department of the village charged with the issuance of permits for
building, plumbing or electrical work for sewer connections or for other work
in connection with the construction of a swimming pool shall approve any permit
therefor until all drawings and plans for the construction, alteration or
installation of such swimming pool shall be first submitted.
   (C)   The Board of Health shall review the plans and specifications to
determine whether they comply with the provisions of this chapter and with
reasonable standards of swimming pool construction for the protection of public
safety, health and morals, as described in the rules and regulations
promulgated or adopted by the Board pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   Application for a permit shall be in writing on a form prescribed by
the Code Enforcement Officer. The application shall contain such information as
shall be required by the various inspectors for a proper understanding of the
proposed work.
(Prior Code, § 151.15) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 PLANS AND OTHER PERTINENT DATA TO BE SUBMITTED.
   Plans, specifications and other pertinent data, required to be submitted in
connection with an application for the permit provided for in this chapter,
shall include the following information to the extent applicable, as well as
other data as may be reasonably requested by the Code Enforcement Officer:
   (A)   Plans, drawn to scale, indicating all dimensions, including length,
width and depth of pool structure and width of pool deck;
   (B)   A profile drawing, showing elevation of normal pool water level,
elevation of the sewer or drain line which is to receive the pool, filter and
over-flow gutter drainage;
   (C)   A cross-section drawing of overflow gutters and or skimmers;
   (D)   Pipe diagrams, showing size of all pipes, inlets, outlets, make-up
water lines, vacuum lines, waste and discharge lines, circulation and other
pipings;
   (E)   The pool equipment room or area layout, showing filters, their
location, pumps, chlorinators, chemical feeders, flow meter, gauges, sight
glass, strainers, hair and lint interceptors, dimensions of filter room or
area, its location, floor drain, pumps and other pertinent information;
   (F)   The liquid capacity of the pool;
   (G)   The liquid capacity of any wading pool; and
   (H)   The kind, number and size of filters, including the square footage of
the filter area in each unit.
(Prior Code, § 151.16)
§ 151.17 FEE.
   (A)   Fees for the issuance of permits, inspection or certificates or copies
thereof required to be issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
collected by the Code Enforcement Officer in advance of issuance.
   (B)   The amounts of such fees shall be established by resolution of the
Village Board and shall cover the costs of inspection and supervision resulting
from the enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.17) (Ord. 00-104, passed 8-7-2000)
STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION
§ 151.30 LOCATION OF SWIMMING POOL.
   (A)   Private residence swimming pools shall be permitted on any property
occupied by a one- or two- family dwelling.
   (B)   All pools shall be located to the rear of the primary residential
dwelling. The pool wall shall be at least ten feet from the rear property line
and five feet from each side property line. No swimming pool shall be located
in an easement.
   (C)   Pumps, filters and any pool equipment shall be located a distance of
not less than five feet from any property line.
   (D)   There shall be a distance of not less than four feet between the
outside pool wall and any building located on the same lot.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any swimming pool of
a permanent nature which has been constructed prior to the effective date of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.30) (Ord. 18-111, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 18-116, passed 8-20-
2018) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.31 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to such requirements as may be reasonably imposed by the Board
of Health, the Code Enforcement Officer shall not issue any permit as required
by this chapter unless the following design and construction requirements are
to be observed in such work, and all pools shall be constructed and maintained
in conformity with the following requirements.
   (A)   Material. The material used for lining pools shall be one which is
light in color, is impervious and will provide a tank with smooth and easily
cleaned surfaces. Sand or dirt bottoms are prohibited.
   (B)   Walls. The side walls shall be vertical to a depth of at least five
feet. However, a slope is permitted which shall not be more than one foot
horizontal and five feet vertical to a depth of five feet from the top.
   (C)   Steps or ladders. At least one means of egress in the form of steps or
ladders shall be provided for all private residence swimming pools. Treads of
steps or ladders shall be constructed of non-slip material at least two and
one-half inches wide for their full length. Steps or ladders shall be equipped
with a handrail.
   (D)   Walk area.
      (1)   There shall be an unobstructed walk area not less than 36 inches
wide to extend entirely around the pool. It is recommended, but not required,
that the walk area shall be constructed of impervious material and the surfaces
shall be smooth and easily cleaned and of non-slip construction. The slope of
the paved walk shall have a pitch of at least one-fourth inch per foot,
designed to prevent back drainage from entering the pool.
      (2)   Where an impervious walk area as described under division (D)(1)
above is not installed, then the slope away from the edge of the pool shall be
at least one inch per foot for distance of not less than three feet.
   (E)   Fences. A fence or wall shall be installed and maintained so as to
completely surround the pool. Such fence or wall shall be an effective barrier
to small children, and shall be at least 48 inches in height. Gates thereof
shall be self-closing and shall be equipped with self-latching devices placed
at the top thereof. Such gate shall be locked when the premises are not
occupied or the pool not in use, particularly at night.
   (F)   Aboveground pools; fences.
      (1)   Pools constructed aboveground may be protected from entry by a
barrier attached to the pool walls such that the total height of the wall and
additional barrier is not less than four feet in height surrounding the
swimming pool.
         (a)   Adjacent buildings and decks connected to the barrier can be
used to provide protection if the barrier is continuous.
         (b)   Steps or ladders can be used to access the pool, but they must
be removed or made inaccessible when the pool is not being used under the
supervision of the owner or lawful adult occupant of the premises.
         (c)   No additional yard fencing is required if the four-foot barrier
is maintained.
      (2)   Fencing that encloses the entire premises of a residential property
on which a swimming pool is located may serve as sufficient fencing for the
pool upon inspection and approval of the Village Code Enforcement Officer.
(Prior Code, § 151.31) (Ord. 18-111, passed 7-2-2018) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.32 RECIRCULATION TYPES REQUIRED.
   All private swimming pools shall be of the recirculation type, in which
circulation of the water is maintained through the pool by pumps, the water
drawn from the pool being clarified and disinfected before being returned to
the pool.
(Prior Code, § 151.32) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.33 RECIRCULATION SYSTEM AND APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   Private residential swimming pool recirculation systems shall consist
of pumping equipment, hair and lint catcher, filters, together with the
necessary pipe connections to the pool inlets and outlets, facilities and pipe
connections necessary for back-washing type filters and facilities and
equipment for disinfecting pool water.
   (B)   The recirculation system pump shall have sufficient capacity to
discharge the volume of water required for an 18-hour turnover of the pool
against the maximum head in the recirculating system.
   (C)   The pump and facilities used for back-washing type filters shall have
sufficient capacity to provide a filter backwash rate of at least ten gallons
per minute per square foot of filter area.
   (D)   A hair and lint catcher or strainer shall be installed on the suction
side of the circulation pump to prevent hair, lint and other extraneous matter
from reaching the pump and filters. Hair and lint catchers shall be so designed
that they can be easily dismantled for cleaning and inspection and shall be so
designed as to be easily accessible for cleaning.
   (E)   Recirculating systems shall contain a suitable filter of sufficient
filter area to filter the entire contents of the pool in 18 hours at the rate
of not more than five gallons per square foot of filter area per minute. All
backwash water and effluents shall be discharged to a storm or sanitary sewer
through an indirect connection or, if neither is available, the backwash shall
be disposed of in a manner suitable to the Code Enforcement Officer. Pressure
filters shall be equipped with readily accessible air relief valves, loss of
head indicators or pressure gauges to determine the frequency of cleaning and
an access head or hole large enough to permit inspection, maintenance and
repair work.
(Prior Code, § 151.33) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.34 DISINFECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Equipment shall be provided for the disinfection of all pool
water. Any disinfection method using materials other than chlorine compounds
shall be subject to the approval of the Code Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   Disinfection equipment installed for the use of chlorine compounds
shall have sufficient capacity to maintain a free chlorine residual of not less
than one-half parts per million. The disinfectant shall be introduced into the
recirculation system of the filters.
   (B)   Gaseous chlorination systems shall not be made use of as a
disinfection method for pool water.
   (C)   A test kit with permanent color standards shall be provided and each
individual owner shall be responsible for the disinfection of his or her own
pool. However, the Board of Health reserves the right to make inspections and
take appropriate action according to law.
(Prior Code, § 151.34)
§ 151.35 INLETS.
   (A)   Private residential swimming pool water recirculation system inlets
shall be located so as to produce so far as possible uniform circulation of
water throughout the pool with out the existence of dead spots and to carry
pool bottom deposits to the outlets, and shall discharge at a minimum of ten
inches below the pool overflow level. A main outlet shall be placed at the
deepest point in the pool and fitted with a safe grating, or provision shall be
made for draining the pool which is suitable to the Code Enforcement Officer.
No direct connection shall be made to the sewer. A minimum of one recirculation
system inlet shall be provided for every 800 square feet of surface area of the
pool.
   (B)   (1)   Pools shall be equipped with suitable facilities for adding
make-up water as needed. There shall be no physical connection between the
water supply line and the pool system.
      (2)   If the make-up water is added directly to the pool, the outlet
shall be at least six inches above the upper rim of the pool.
      (3)   If the make-up water line discharges to a surge or balancing tank,
the point of discharge shall be at least six inches above the rim of the tank.
      (4)   If a hose connection from a sill cock or other plumbing fixture is
to be used for supplying make-up water, then an approved vacuum breaker shall
be installed between the sill cock or control valve at the fixture and the hose
connection.
(Prior Code, § 151.35) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.36 ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No overhead current carrying electrical conductors of 75 volts or more
shall cross private residential swimming pools or be located within 12 feet of
such pools.
   (B)   All metal fences, enclosures or railings near or adjacent to private
residential swimming pools, which might become electrically alive as a result
of contact with broken overhead conductors, or from any other cause, shall be
effectively grounded.
   (C)   The recirculating system pump may not be on the same circuit with the
general pool lighting. If the recirculating pump is three-fourths horsepower or
more, then it must be on a completely separate circuit.
   (D)   All underground wiring shall comply with the provisions of the
National Electric Code. Wiring installed under the pool proper or under
impervious walk areas shall be three-quarter-inch rigid conduit, Type RR,
installed by a licensed contractor.
   (E)   All exterior receptacles shall be of the grounded type.
(Prior Code, § 151.36) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.37 INSPECTIONS.
   Construction of the pool, including all sewer and water supply connections,
and all electrical work shall be inspected by the Code Enforcement Officer.
(Prior Code, § 151.37)
STANDARDS FOR OPERATION
§ 151.50 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Sanitation of premises. All swimming pools shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition and all equipment shall be maintained in a
satisfactory operating condition during the period the pool is in use.
   (B)   Safety of bathers.
      (1)   All reasonable precautions shall be taken to protect the users of
and bathers in swimming pools from injury or accident.
      (2)   Safety appliances, such as life buoys, life hooks, bamboo poles or
rope and equipment, including first-aid kits, shall be provided and be readily
accessible.
   (C)   Nuisance. No swimming pool shall be used or kept, or maintained or
operated, within the village if such use, maintenance or operation shall be the
occasion of any nuisance or shall be dangerous or detrimental to health.
(Prior Code, § 151.50) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.51 INSPECTION; ABATEMENT; APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, operate,
maintain or manage any swimming pool without complying with the requirements of
this chapter.
      (2)   The Board of Health is charged with the enforcement of the
provisions hereof. The Board is hereby authorized to promulgate rules and
regulations for the construction, operation and maintenance of swimming pools
for the protection and promotion of the public health, safety, morals and
public welfare.
   (B)   The Board of Health shall cause to be inspected all swimming pools
within the village at such times as it may deem necessary to carry out the
intent of this chapter. The Board is hereby authorized to enter upon any
premises, private or public, to take such samples of water from such pools at
such times as it may deem necessary and to require the owner, proprietor or
operator to comply with rules and regulations pertaining to swimming pools
promulgated by the Board in accordance with this chapter. In the event of
failure after due notice to comply with the rules and regulations of the Board
or the requirements of this chapter, or whenever such pool constitutes a menace
or hazard to health, the Board shall have the power to abate or cause a
suspension of the use of such swimming pool until such time as the same is, in
the opinion of the Board, no longer a menace or a hazard to health, safety or
morals.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever, pursuant to the provisions of this section, the Board
of Health abates or causes a suspension of the use of a swimming pool, the
owner, operator or lessee of such pool may appeal to the Board and may have the
Board determine the reasonableness of the order.
      (2)   However, no appeal under this section shall entitle the appellant
to continue the operation of the pool pending action by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 151.51) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.52 RECORDS.
   Such records of operation shall be kept as may be required by the Board of
Health and reports shall be submitted to the Board as required.
(Prior Code, § 151.52)
§ 151.53 INTERFERENCE WITH ENJOYMENT OF PROPERTY RIGHTS PROHIBITED.
   No swimming pool shall be so located, designed, operated or maintained as to
interfere unduly with the enjoyment of property rights of owners of property
adjoining the swimming pool or located in the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 151.53) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.54 SHIELDING LIGHTS.
   Lights used to illuminate any swimming pool shall be so arranged and shaded
as to reflect light away from adjoining premises.
(Prior Code, § 151.54) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.55 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued at any swimming pool any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any
noise which annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of others. In the operation of a swimming pool, the use or
permitting the use or operation of any radio, receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing of sound in
such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring
inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient
hearing of the person or persons who are in the swimming pool premises shall be
unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 151.55) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.56 BATHING SUIT REQUIRED.
   Every person using a swimming pool must wear a bathing suit or other
suitable garment to protect his or her person from indecent exposure.
(Prior Code, § 151.56) Penalty, see §
151.99
§  151.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purpose; application and jurisdiction
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Subdivision outside the corporate limits within a mile and one-half
   
152.05   Entitlement of record upon approval
   
152.06   Water and sewer main extension policy
   
152.07   Condominium subdivisions
Procedures to be Followed for Submitting a Subdivision Plan
   
152.20   Pre-application
   
152.21   Preliminary plat
   
152.22   Final plat
   
152.23   Construction plans, specifications and other requirements
   
152.24   Bonds, fees and certificates
Design Standards
   
152.35   Alleys
   
152.36   Blocks
   
152.37   Drainage report
   
152.38   Easements
   
152.39   Gas mains and appurtenances
   
152.40   Lots
   
152.41   Power lines
   
152.42   Sanitary sewers and appurtenances
   
152.43   Sidewalks
   
152.44   Stormwater management standards
   
152.45   Storm sewers and conveyance
   
152.46   Streets
   
152.47   Street lighting
   
152.48   Street names, signs and numbering
   
152.49   Sump pump drain line system
   
152.50   Telephone and cable television lines
   
152.51   Water mains and appurtenances
Construction
   
152.65   Construction inspections and deviations from the plans and
specifications
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Subdivision Code of the
Village of Tremont and Contiguous Areas.”
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE; APPLICATION AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter, which is part of the Comprehensive Plan
of the village, is to ensure that the subdivision and development of land is
accomplished in a timely manner, in conformance with all village and state
regulations and standards, and in a manner which minimizes or eliminates
adverse impacts and encourages and facilitates the orderly development of the
village and its environs.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all subdivisions
and developments within the village and within a mile and one-half of the
village’s corporate limits. It is the intent of this code to permit subdivision
development within all zoning classifications, except agriculturally zoned
property.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall also apply to any other
developments, whether a subdivision is required or not under the law, statutes,
ordinances or regulations of the governing body or agency having jurisdiction
or control, and regardless of whether the same is labeled a subdivision or not,
it being the intent of the chapter to apply to all types of development, both
within the village and to areas lying within a mile and one-half of the
village’s corporate limits. This shall apply to all types of land subdivisions
or developments which impact adjacent land, including, but not limited to, the
dedication or construction of public or private streets, storm sewers, sanitary
sewers, stormwater drainage facilities and similar types of improvements,
whether a subdivision of land is required or not under the laws, statutes,
ordinances or regulations of the governing bodies or agencies having
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural include the singular, and when any pertinent term
is not expressly defined it shall be construed to have its usual legal
definition. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely advisory.
   ASSOCIATION. The owners’ association to be formed for the owners of property
in a subdivision to maintain any open space, common grounds or common buildings
not dedicated to and accepted by a public agency.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   BOND. A performance bond issued by a surety company, a cash bond or a letter
of credit issued by a financial institution, to guarantee a contract and the
payment of all obligations for the construction of public improvements.
   BYPASS CHANNEL. A channel formed in the topography of the earth’s surface to
carry stormwater runoff through a specified area.
   CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION. A certificate issued by the Village Clerk
indicating registration with the village to develop and/or construct public
improvements which will be or have been dedicated to the village during a
subdivision process. This CERTIFICATE shall not be denied, suspended or
revoked, except by Village Board action.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The official comprehensive plan and land use map of the
village adopted by the Village Board, and amended from time to time.
   CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision or part of a subdivision which is
intended for multi-family buildings to be constructed and sold by the
subdivider as condominium units rather than as apartments.
   CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. Plans prepared by a registered
engineer of the subdivider to show the types, location, lines and grades of the
proposed streets, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, water mains and the like in
the subdivision.
   CONSULTING ENGINEER. A firm licensed by Illinois, or any state, as a
professional design firm able to provide engineering services. CONSULTING
ENGINEERING FIRMS may also provide related professional services such as
surveying and landscape architecture. A CONSULTING ENGINEER must maintain
professional liability insurance in order to provide services within the
village for public facilities or facilities that will become publicly-owned
facilities.
   CONTROL STRUCTURE. A structure designed and built to control the flow of
stormwater runoff.
   DESIGN STORM. A rainfall event of specified duration and frequency used to
calculate the stormwater runoff from a given area of land. An example of a
DESIGN STORM is a rainfall event with a duration of 24 hours that occurs on
average once every two years. Another example is a rainfall event with a
duration of one hour that occurs once every 25 years on average. The rainfall
data set to be used in the village is maintained by the Illinois State Water
Survey and is published as Bulletin 70.
   DETENTION BASIN. A facility designed and built to provide for the temporary
storage of stormwater runoff and the controlled release of runoff at a
prescribed rate during and after a storm event.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate, including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any
addition to a building valued at more than $1,000;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180
days;
         (c)   Drilling, mining, installing utilities or facilities,
construction of roads, bridges or similar projects valued at more than $1,000;
         (d)   Filling, dredging, grading, excavating, constructing parking
lots or other non- agricultural alterations of the ground surfaces;
         (e)   Storage of materials; or
         (f)   Any other activity that might change the direction, depth or
rate of flood or surface waters within the village.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices.
   DRY BOTTOM STORMWATER STORAGE AREA. A detention facility designed to receive
runoff and release all of the runoff such that the facility is normally in a
dry condition.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms constituting all or part of a dwelling used
exclusively as living quarters for one family and not more than two roomers or
boarders, and which contain cooking facilities, sink or other kitchen
facilities.
   EASEMENT. A right or privilege to enter and use private land for specified
purposes.
   FINAL ACCEPTANCE. Acceptance of the subdivision improvements by the Village
Board.
   FINAL PLAT. The final map or drawing on which the subdivided plan of
subdivision is presented to the Village Board for approval, and which, if
approved, shall be recorded in the County Recorder’s office for the purpose of
conveying land.
   FLAG LOT. A lot configured such that the main or principal use, or the
building area, does not abut or adjoin a public street, but is connected to
such public street by a narrow strip of land intended to provide access between
the public street and the useful portion of the lot.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
      (1)   Areas susceptible to the base flood and delineated as “A” Zones on
a Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
      (2)   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS of unincorporated Tazewell County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village are identified on a
Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared for the county by FEMA.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or parcel of land considered a unit intended
for transfer of ownership or for building development.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE. The flow path of stormwater runoff across land without
alteration by development. As the runoff travels farther distances, the flow
becomes concentrated in channels and streams formed in the existing surface
topography.
   OUTLOT. A lot within a subdivision to be used for a unique purpose such as a
drainage pond or shared park land. Any such lots used as a shared resource of a
subdivision shall be owned and managed by an association of the property
owners.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Tremont Planning Commission.
   PLAT OFFICER. An officer appointed by the Village President with the consent
of the Village Board, whose vested duty is to administer and enforce the
regulations and standards of this chapter.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A preliminary map or drawing indicating the proposed
layout of the subdivision as submitted to the Planning Commission for
consideration and approval of the Village Board.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. A potable water system serving at least 15 service
connections or which regularly serve at least 25 persons at least 60 days per
year, as more specifically defined by the state’s Environmental Protection Act
(415 ILCS 5/3.365).
   RESERVE STRIP. A strip of land, usually the boundary of a subdivision, which
is withheld from sale or dedication to control the development of adjacent
land.
   RETENTION BASIN.
      (1)   A facility constructed or modified to provide for the storage of
stormwater runoff without overland discharge or release of runoff.
      (2)   Collected runoff is only released by means of infiltration and
evaporation.
   REVERSE FRONTAGE. A lot that is bounded in front and in back by a street or
thoroughfare.
   SANITARY SEWER. A constructed conduit to collect and carry liquid and solid
sewage wastes, other than stormwaters, to a sewage treatment plant.
   SELECTED GRANULAR BACKFILL. Aggregate material used for water and sewer pipe
construction, as defined by the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois.
   SIDEWALKS. The paved portion of the right-of-way, excluding the paved
street, designed and intended for the movement and use of pedestrians.
   STATE ROAD SPECIFICATIONS. The most recent edition of the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, as adopted by the state’s
Department of Transportation.
   STATE WATER AND SEWER MAIN SPECIFICATIONS. The most recent edition of the
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.
   STREETS and ALLEYS. A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a
street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane or
however designated, in the following hierarchy.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREET. Designed for high vehicular capacity and moderate
travel speed. ARTERIAL STREETS typically travel through the village providing
travel routes to and from the community.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. Designed to carry a moderate amount of traffic at
low to moderate speeds. COLLECTOR STREETS typically carry traffic within the
village between subdivisions and between residential areas and other zoned
property types.
      (3)   LOCAL STREET. Those streets typically carrying lower volumes of
traffic at low speeds. LOCAL STREETS provide access to abutting properties.
      (4)   ALLEYS. Connect streets and provide access to the rear of
properties typically for service such as garbage collection or access to
garages.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, association, corporation or other legal entity
who is an owner or agent responsible for subdividing or developing land and who
is responsible for requirements outlined in these regulations for the
subdividing of land.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels
for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, shall be
deemed a SUBDIVISION. The term includes resubdivision; provided that, the
division of not more than five lots or tracts of record into not more than
three lots, and not involving a new street, shall be eligible for record
without approval of the Village Board, but with the written approval of the
Plat Officer, who shall first determine that the new lots comply with the area
regulations and other requirements, including sanitation of the zoning
regulations of the village. When appropriate to the context, the term
SUBDIVISION shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land
subdivided.
      (2)   The term also applies to the following, which, while not requiring
submission of a subdivision plat, nor approval of the Village Board, requires
village approval through the Plat Officer and compliance with the other
requirements of this chapter:
         (a)   Division or subdivision of land into lots of five acres or more
which do not involve any new streets or easements of access;
         (b)   Division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
         (c)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of
adjoining and contiguous land;
         (d)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use
as a right-of-way for railroads, utilities or pipe lines which do not involve
any new streets or easements of access;
         (e)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public
utility which does not involve any new streets or easements for access;
         (f)   The conveyance or dedication of land for highway or other public
purposes or the vacation of land dedicated for a public use;
         (g)   Conveyance made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
         (h)   The sale or exchange of parcels following the division into no
more than two parts of a particular parcel of land existing on 7-17-1959 and
not involving any new streets or easements of access; or
         (i)   It is the intent of the section to eliminate the exception
stated at § 1(b)(9) of the Plat Act, being 756 ILCS 205/1(b)(9), and thereby
require compliance with the Plat Act, being  765 ILCS  205/1 et seq., in
transactions involving the sale of a single lot of less than five acres from a
larger tract in all instances, except that specified in division (1) above.
   SUBDIVISION CODE. This chapter.
   SUBSTANTIAL CONFORMANCE. No changes in a subdivision’s street configuration,
the number, sizes and configuration of lots, and the configuration of
stormwater drainage plans or the configuration of any other utility services.
   STORM DRAINAGE CAPACITY. The flow of stormwater runoff that can be
transported by a channel without overtopping or a conduit without causing a
rise of the water surface over the conduit where water enters the conduit.
   STORM SEWER. A constructed conduit to carry stormwater runoff.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The flow of water resulting from precipitation which was
not absorbed by the soil or plant material.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF RELEASE RATE. The flow rate at which stormwater runoff is
released from a control structure.
   TRIBUTARY WATERSHED. All the land area that contributes stormwater runoff to
a given point.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. Appointed by the Village President with the consent of the
Village Board to assist the village as described in the village’s code of
ordinances. The VILLAGE ENGINEER shall be a professional engineer (P.E.)
licensed by the state. The VILLAGE ENGINEER shall have expertise in civil
engineering. A qualified consulting engineer may serve as VILLAGE ENGINEER, if
approved by the Village Board.
   WET BOTTOM STORMWATER STORAGE AREA. A facility designed to be maintained as
a pond with a free water surface and which has capacity to contain excess
stormwater runoff.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.04 SUBDIVISION OUTSIDE THE CORPORATE LIMITS WITHIN A MILE AND ONE-HALF.
   (A)   Subdivisions located outside the village’s corporate limits, but
within a mile and one-half of the corporate limits, shall meet all requirements
of this chapter, in addition to the requirements of the township and county.
   (B)   Storm sewers, sanitary sewers and water mains shall not be extended to
users located outside the village’s corporate limits, except when the Village
Board votes to allow such an extension after affected property owners file a
petition for water or sewer service and sign an agreement to annex to the
village when requested.
   (C)   Streets and other public improvements constructed outside the
corporate limits of the village, but within one and one-half miles
extraterritorial jurisdiction must meet village requirements and shall also
conform to the rules, specifications and regulations regarding location, width,
grades, surface and drainage structures applicable to the township road system.
The review and approval of streets and public improvements in the township is
performed by both the village and the Township Highway Commissioner, with bonds
and the like for public improvements, including streets, assigned jointly to
the village and county and held by the county. Final acceptance shall be filed
with the County Clerk and County Engineer. Final plat acceptance does not
convey acceptance of roads.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.05 ENTITLEMENT OF RECORD UPON APPROVAL.
   (A)   Each subdivider who seeks the Village Board’s approval of a
subdivision shall follow these procedures and conform to the village’s approved
Comprehensive Plan, as amended from time to time. All requests for preliminary
plat of a subdivision shall be referred to the Planning Commission for review
and recommendation before action by the Village Board.
   (B)   No owner or agent of the owner of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell such a parcel until a final plat of
the subdivision has been approved by the Village Board and filed with the
county’s Recorder of Deeds.
   (C)   (1)   Amendments to this chapter become effective with approval by the
Village Board. Any final plat requests, based on preliminary plats which were
approved by the Village Board within one year of the date of the request for
final plat approval, shall not be required to comply with the amendments to
this chapter made within that one-year period.
      (2)   All other final plats must comply with the then existing
Subdivision Code requirements in effect on the date of the request for final
plat approval.
      (3)   All requests for final plat approval must be made in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   If a plat has been approved and afterward it is desirable to change or
vary the lot lines as shown, this constitutes a re-subdivision and re-platting
of the lots is required following these subdivision procedures.
   (E)   Upon the approval of a final plat by the village, the subdivider
thereby grants the village, its officers, employees and agents, access to the
subdivision for the purpose of inspecting improvements.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.06 WATER AND SEWER MAIN EXTENSION POLICY.
   (A)   It has been, and continues to be, the policy of the village that land
developers within the village or within a mile and one-half of the corporate
limits are required to extend water, storm sewer and sanitary sewer mains to
their developments at their own expense.
   (B)   In certain situations in which the corporate authorities deem it to be
necessary or desirable to protect the public health, safety and welfare by
ensuring that adequate public facilities exist to serve new developments and to
promote orderly development, the village may elect, in its sole discretion, to
extend water, storm sewer or sanitary sewer mains at the village’s expense to
desirable areas and to recoup its expense by charging a connection fee to the
owners/developers of the property benefitted by said main extensions.
   (C)   In the event the village elects to extend mains at its own expense, it
shall be done so by ordinance and each such ordinance shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      (1)   An estimate of the cost to the village to extend the main or mains;
      (2)   A designation of the area which the village reasonably believes
will be benefitted by the main extension; and
      (3)   A formula or fee schedule setting forth the way in which the
connection fee will be determined.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or limit the village
from collecting the fees provided for elsewhere in this code of ordinances in
addition to the connection fee proposed herein.
   (E)   The following areas have been designated by separate ordinances as
areas in which the village will, or has, paid for the construction of public
water, public sanitary sewer or public storm sewer main extensions and for
which reimbursement will be collected from developers or property owners, by
the village, upon connection to the main.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.07 CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   In addition to all other requirements relating to new subdivisions,
the requirements of this section shall apply to any subdivision or part of a
subdivision intended to be developed by the construction of two-family or
multi-family building(s) and the sale of the building by selling individual
condominium units. Conversions of existing two-family, multi-family, office,
commercial or industrial buildings into individual condominium units shall not
be permitted.
   (B)   Except as specifically limited in division (A) above, and expanded by
division (C) below, the provisions of the state’s Condominium Property Act
(“C.P.A.”) (765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.) shall apply to all condominium
subdivisions.
   (C)   In addition to the requirements of the C.P.A.:
      (1)   Each developer of a proposed condominium subdivision shall submit
to the village for public inspection purposes only, the following information:
         (a)   Plans and specifications indicating where each condominium is to
be and what public areas are to be owned by the association of condominium
owners;
         (b)   Proposed articles of incorporation and by-laws for the
association of condominium owners which will manage the common areas;
         (c)   A detailed description of proposed financing to be available to
purchasers of the condominium units;
         (d)   Information indicating financial responsibility and financial
ability of the builders or developers to complete the project as proposed,
including a projected operating budget for the condominium;
         (e)   A copy of all proposed covenants relating to the real estate;
         (f)   An agreement by the developer specifying the improvements to be
completed by the developer, including recreational facilities, bicycle trails
and other common areas. The agreement shall also indicated the percentage of
ownership interest in each of the common areas allocated to each unit or shall
specifically state that it is an “add on condominium” that allows a
reallocation of the percentage ownership interest in the existing and
additional common elements pursuant to 765 ILCS 605/25.;
         (g)   If the construction is to be financed in whole or in part by
escrow funds put up by purchasers, or if escrow funds of any kind are required
from purchasers, then the following information will be provided:
            1.   A description of the escrow arrangements;
            2.   A copy of all escrow documents;
            3.   Provision for the return of funds to purchasers if the matter
is not completed by the date specified; and
            4.   The name and address of the institution to hold the escrow.
         (h)   Title information insuring all liens, easements and interest of
record including all ownership concerning the real estate. All mortgages and
mechanics’ liens and other financial liens of any kind shall be listed;
         (i)   In connection with the common areas and recreational areas, a
proposed management agreement and proposed rules will be furnished; and
         (j)   The forms to be used for agreements, promissory notes, deeds and
other documents of title and documents related to the sale of the condominium
units.
      (2)   No person may be denied the right to purchase or lease a unit based
on race, religion, sex, sexual preference, marital status or national origin.
      (3)   Unit owners may not be required to be members of or participate in
recreational or similar facilities that are not owned in fee by the unit owners
or by an association in which the unit owners are members.
      (4)   Unit owners must be allowed to inspect financial books and records
of the condominium association within seven business days after written request
for examination is received by the association.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
PROCEDURES TO BE FOLLOWED FOR SUBMITTING A SUBDIVISION PLAN
§ 152.20 PRE-APPLICATION.
   (A)   Prior to filing a preliminary plat, the subdivider may confer with the
Plat Officer so general information about the subdivision and its location may
be conveyed to the Planning Commission. The pre-application is optional and
does not require formal application, nor any fee, nor the filing of a plat with
the village.
   (B)   Ten copies of any pre-application materials requested shall be
submitted to the Plat Officer no later than the fifteenth day of the month
prior to the meeting at which the Planning Commission shall review the pre-
application materials.
   (C)   The Plat Officer may request all or a portion of the following at the
time of pre-application:
      (1)   Land characteristics and existing condition of the site;
      (2)   A sketch plan of the proposed subdivision layout showing the
following:
         (a)   Street and lot layout and other features in relation to existing
conditions;
         (b)   Number of lots with typical widths and depths; and
         (c)   Available utilities.
      (3)   Any additional information and data necessary for proper
consideration of the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.21 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider shall prepare and submit ten copies of the preliminary
plat of the proposed subdivision. An application for subdivision shall be filed
with the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Preliminary plat materials shall be submitted to the Plat Officer no
later than the fifteenth day of the month prior to the meeting at which the
Planning Commission shall review and recommend action on the preliminary plat.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove the application
for preliminary plat within 45 days from the date of the application or the
filing by the applicant of the last item of required supporting data, whichever
date is later, unless such time is extended by mutual consent.
   (D)   If such preliminary plat is disapproved, within 15 days, the Planning
Commission shall furnish the applicant or subdivider, in writing, a statement
setting forth the reason for disapproval and specifying with particularity the
aspects in which the proposed plat fails to conform to the ordinances including
the official map. The Planning Commission will recommend denial to the Village
Board unless the subdivider requests reconsideration by the Planning Commission
in writing prior to the first meeting of the Village Board following written
denial by the Planning Commission. If the subdivider requests reconsideration
by the Planning Commission, the Planning Commission shall have an additional 45
days to consider the subdivider’s request.
   (E)   If the preliminary plat is recommended for approval, ten additional
copies of the preliminary plat, as recommended by the Planning Commission,
shall be submitted to the Plat Officer within five days following
recommendation. The Village Board, which in turn shall accept or reject the
preliminary plat within 30 days after its first regular scheduled meeting
following action by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   The preliminary plat shall contain the following information.
      (1)   Existing conditions.
         (a)   A detailed drawing of the proposed subdivision at a scale not
smaller than 100 feet per inch. Horizontal mapping coordinates shall use the
North American Datum of 1983 (NAD83) Zone 1202 (Transverse Mercator/Western
Zone);
         (b)   Existing topographical data. For all land that slopes less than
2%, show contours with an interval of one foot. For land that slopes more than
2%, show contours with an interval of two feet. All elevations shall be based
on North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88);
         (c)   Other site conditions and significant features including flood
hazard areas, watercourses, marshes and wooded areas;
         (d)   Conditions on land adjacent to the site including approximate
direction of ground slope including embankments and retaining walls, buildings,
railroads, towers and all other nearby non- residential land uses;
         (e)   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract, including land separated by
a transportation feature. Designation of any lots for duplex development;
         (f)   Names of owners of adjacent unplatted land and names of adjacent
platted subdivisions;
         (g)   Existing easements on or adjacent to the tract showing locations
and purpose;
         (h)   Existing streets and roads on or adjacent to the tract showing
the location, name, right-of-way width and street surface width. All existing
walks, curbs, gutters, culverts and the like; and
         (i)   Existing utilities on or adjacent to the tract including:
            1.   The location and size of all water mains. If water mains are
not adjacent to the tract, indicate the direction and distance to the nearest
main and its size;
            2.   The location and size of all sanitary and storm sewer mains,
manholes and inlets. If sanitary sewer mains are not adjacent to the tract,
indicate the direction, distance and invert elevation of the nearest sanitary
sewer and its size;
            3.   The location of all gas mains; and
            4.   The location of all electric and telephone poles and street
lights.
      (2)   Proposed conditions.
         (a)   Proposed improvements or other major projects planned by public
authorities to be constructed on or near the tract;
         (b)   Sites and acreage, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping
centers, churches, industry or other non-public uses exclusive of single-family
dwellings;
         (c)   Sites and acreage, if any, to be dedicated for parks,
playgrounds, bikeways, schools and other public uses;
         (d)   Proposed streets including right-of-way and pavement widths;
         (e)   Location and dimensions of all other proposed rights-of-way and
easements and their purpose;
         (f)   Lot lines, block and lot numbers and lot sizes shall be shown;
         (g)   Minimum building setback lines;
         (h)   Location and sizes of all proposed utilities;
         (i)   Stormwater control facilities including stormwater retention
basins;
         (j)   Title, scale, north arrow and date;
         (k)   Additional information, if required by the Plat Officer,
including:
            1.   Profiles showing existing ground surface and proposed street
extensions showing grades and cross-sections for a reasonable distance beyond
the limits of the proposed subdivision; and
            2.   Preliminary plans of proposed sanitary and storm sewers with
grades and sizes indicated for a reasonable distance beyond the limits of the
proposed subdivision.
         (l)   Draft of restrictive covenants (if any) whereby the subdivider
proposes to regulate land use in the subdivision and otherwise protect the
proposed development.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.22 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   (1)   Within one year of approval of the preliminary plat by the
Village Board, the subdivider shall prepare and submit a final plat of the
proposed subdivision, or a portion thereof, along with other supplementary
information required.
      (2)   The final plat shall be in substantial conformance with the
approved preliminary plat and shall comply with the construction standards and
this chapter’s requirements in effect at the time the preliminary plat was
approved.
   (B)   Should the subdivider prepare final plats for portions of the
subdivision, the subdivider shall have an additional four-year period in which
to prepare and submit final plat(s) of the proposed subdivision portions, along
with other supplementary information required, but any such final plat must
comply with those construction standards and chapter requirements in effect at
the time of final plat submission. Following this five-year period, the
subdivider may request an extension of the period the preliminary plat remains
in effect by submission of an application for extension presented for Village
Board action.
   (C)   Should the subdivider not submit a final plat within one year of
approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall resubmit a preliminary
plat for the subdivision which must comply with those construction standards
and chapter requirements in effect at the time of new preliminary plat
submission. The one-year and additional four-year final plat process time line
begins after village action on the new preliminary plat.
   (D)   Ten copies of the final plat application along with the construction
plans and specifications and an estimate of expenditure, shall be submitted to
the Plat Officer no later than 20 days before the regular meeting of the
Village Board at which the approval of the subdivision final plat is sought.
   (E)   The final plat shall be a reproducible ink drawing at a scale of 200
feet equals one inch or larger. The drawing may be on more than one sheet with
an index sheet, if required.
   (F)   For large subdivisions, the final plat may be submitted for approval
progressively in contiguous sections satisfactory to the Plat Officer.
   (G)   The final plat shall contain as a minimum, the following information:
      (1)   Primary control points and ties to such control points to which all
dimensions and bearings and similar data shall be referred. At least one of the
control points shall be an established section corner;
      (2)   Subdivision boundary lines, street right-of-way lines, easements
and lot lines shall be shown with accurate dimensions and bearings. Radii, arcs
and central angles of all curves shall also be shown. The location and
description of all monuments used to identify points shall be included;
      (3)   The name and right-of-way width of each street or other right-of-
way;
      (4)   The location, dimensions and purpose of all easements, including
easements provided for sump pump drains, gas lines, electric lines and the
like;
      (5)   The minimum building setback lines;
      (6)   A number to identify each lot or site;
      (7)   The purpose for which sites other than residential lots are
dedicated;
      (8)   The names of recorded owners of adjoining unplatted land;
      (9)   Reference to recorded subdivision plats adjoining the site with
recorded name, date and number;
      (10)   All reserve strips;
      (11)   Delineation of all areas to be inundated by a 100-year storm
event; and
      (12)   Plat title, scale, north arrow and date.
   (H)   Final plats of sites located entirely within the village limits shall
contain the following certificates:
      (1)   A certificate from a registered land surveyor, acknowledged by the
owner of the land or duly authorized attorney, as required by the Plat Act,
being  765 ILCS  205/1 et seq.;
      (2)   A certificate to be signed by the Plat Officer stating that the
plat conforms to this chapter;
      (3)   A certificate to be signed by the Village Clerk stating that the
plat was approved by the Village Board;
      (4)   A certificate to be signed by the County Clerk stating that the
subdivision is not subject to delinquent real estate taxes or special
assessments;
      (5)   A certificate containing a dedication by the owner of the property
dedicating to the public in perpetuity the right-of-way for public streets,
alleys, water mains and sanitary and storm sewers, and that easements are
granted for the uses specified, and that other lots are dedicated for public
purposes, as specified and applicable; and
      (6)   A certificate for a notary public attesting to the property owner’s
free and voluntary act of endorsing the owner’s certificates.
   (I)   Final plats of sites located outside the village, but within a mile
and one-half of the village’s corporate limits shall contain the following
certificates and statements in addition to all of those required for sites
within the village limits:
      (1)   All certificates required by the county;
      (2)   A certificate to be signed by the Township Highway Commissioner;
and
      (3)   A certificate to be signed by the County Engineer.
   (J)   Final plats for subdivisions that are bounded by state right-of-way
shall contain a certificate for use by the state’s Department of
Transportation.
   (K)   (1)   Within 90 days after approval of the final plat by the Village
Board, the subdivider shall record the final plat with the County Recorder. If
the plat is not so recorded, it shall have no validity and shall not be
recorded without subsequent approval of the Village Board. The Village Board
may extend the filing date an additional 90 days if the subdivider can
demonstrate unique circumstances or conditions whereby the recording of the
final plat cannot be accomplished.
      (2)   Three conformed copies of the recorded final plat shall be
deposited with the Village Clerk within five days of being recorded.
   (L)   The subdivider shall execute, upon request by the village, a bill of
sale conveying to the village personal property located in the rights-of-way
and easements which are dedicated to the village.
   (M)   Restrictive covenants (if any) in a form acceptable for recording, and
other data, such as other certificates, affidavits and the like, as may be
required by the Plat Officer to enforce this chapter, design standards or other
regulations shall be submitted at this time.
   (N)   No final plat of any subdivision shall be approved for recording if
the subdivider or any one working under or through the subdivider is in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. Furthermore, the Planning
Commission and Village Board have the right to refuse to consider any
additional plat or plats covering any subdivision or subdivisions of said
subdivider through pre-application procedure, or otherwise, until such time as
such violation, or violations, cease and the subdivider is in full compliance
with all of the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.23 CONSTRUCTION PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   At the time of final plat submittal, five copies of construction plans
and specifications for all public improvements, including, but not limited to,
streets, sanitary sewers, water mains, drainage plans, sump pump drain lines,
storm sewers, stormwater controls and erosion controls shall be submitted. The
construction plans and specifications shall be prepared, signed and sealed by a
registered state professional engineer. These plans and specifications shall
conform to this chapter and design standards of the village and be reviewed and
approved by the Village Engineer.
   (B)   An estimate of expenditure covering the cost of public improvements
shall be prepared and submitted to the Plat Officer with the construction plans
and specifications. The estimate of expenditure shall be prepared and signed by
a registered state professional engineer. This estimate shall be verified by
the Village Engineer for accuracy and adequacy.
   (C)   Drainage plans, including the calculations for stormwater control,
shall be submitted as part of the construction plans and specifications. The
drainage plan shall be recorded with the final plat. The drainage plan shall
contain the following statement regarding drainage of surface waters signed by
a registered professional engineer and the owner of the land or attorney duly
authorized by the owner:
 
To the best of our knowledge and belief, the drainage of surface waters will
not be changed by the construction of such subdivision or any part thereof, or
that if such surface water drainage will be changed, reasonable provision has
been made for the collection and diversion of such surface waters into public
areas or drains which the subdivider has the right to use, and that such
surface waters will be planned for in accordance with generally accepted
engineering practices so as to reduce the likelihood of damage to the adjoining
property because of the construction of the subdivision.
 
   (D)   In the case of commercial and industrial subdivisions and
developments, the owner or developer shall first consult with the Plat Officer
concerning its plan for screening and landscaping. A final plan shall be
submitted to and approved by the village’s Planning Commission with the advice
of the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.24 BONDS, FEES AND CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   All subdividers shall obtain a certificate of registration from the
village prior to the submittal of preliminary plats.
   (B)   All public improvement contractors shall obtain a certificate of
registration from the village prior to the start of construction of any public
improvements.
   (C)   The applicant for a condominium subdivision shall furnish a bond with
a corporate surety licensed to do business in the state, guaranteeing that all
common areas and facilities and all common recreational facilities will be
completed. All other bonds, fees and certificate requirements of this chapter
also apply to condominium subdivisions.
   (D)   The subdivider, prior to approval of the final plat by the Village
Board, shall furnish surety that public improvements shall be completed
satisfactorily. Surety shall be provided to the village when development occurs
within the boundaries of the village and jointly to the village and the county
when development occurs within the one and one-half mile jurisdiction of the
village. The surety shall take any of three separate forms:
      (1)   The subdivider may elect to furnish a corporate surety bond
approved by the Village Board, in the amount of 110% of the verified estimate
of expenditure;
      (2)   In lieu of a surety bond, the subdivider may provide a cash bond in
the form of a cashier’s check or certified check payable to the village in an
amount equal to 100% of the verified estimate of expenditure. The cash bond
will be invested by the village and the subdivider shall receive the interest
earned on the cash bond when final repayment is made to the subdivider; and
      (3)   In lieu of a surety or cash bond, the subdivider may provide an
irrevocable letter of credit from a bank or other financial institution in an
amount equal to 110% of the verified estimate of expenditure and in the form
acceptable to the village.
   (E)   If the subdivider obtains guaranteed contracts from the contractors
for all improvements in the subdivisions that total less than 90% of the
verified estimate of expenditure, the subdivider may petition the Village Board
to reduce the amount of the surety to an amount equal to 110% of the contract
amount.
   (F)   Bond and the like reductions to the subdivider may be made upon the
subdivider’s written request following 50% completion of the improvements;
provided, however, that, stormwater control features, approved by the Village
Engineer, shall be serviceable, if not entirely completed. Reduced bond and the
like amounts will be based upon completed quantities and applicable unit costs
as contained in the verified estimate of expenditure and will require a written
recommendation by the Village Engineer to the Village Board. Based upon the
Village Engineer’s written recommendation, the Village Board may authorize a
reduction of the bond and the like. A maximum of three requests for reduction
will be considered. Sufficient surety shall be maintained by the village to
cover all remaining construction costs with a minimum amount retained of 20%
until final approval and acceptance of the subdivision. Reductions of bonds and
the like shall not be considered as acceptance of all or part of a subdivision.
   (G)   Public improvements shall be substantially completed in a satisfactory
manner within a two-year period following the recording of the final plat with
the County Recorder and shall also be conditioned upon the subdivider fully
complying with the provisions of this chapter. The subdivider, the subdivider’s
engineer and the subdivider’s general contractor shall submit to the village a
certificate of compliance stating that all public improvements being dedicated
to the village have been completed in conformance with the subdivision
construction plans and specifications as submitted with the final plat. The
certificate shall further state that any changes to or deviations from the
construction plans and specifications have received approval of the Village
Engineer.
   (H)   Upon completion and conditional approval of all subdivision
improvements, the subdivider shall provide a one-year written maintenance
agreement/guaranty of the improvements against structural failure. During this
period, the subdivider shall provide financial surety as follows.
      (1)   If a surety bond is used, it shall provide the surety has agreed to
maintain such improvements constructed under the bond for a period of one year
for 100% of the estimated costs of the improvements.
      (2)   If the subdivider provides a cash bond or an irrevocable letter of
credit, the bond or letter of credit shall be 20% of the amount of the
estimated costs of the improvements.
   (I)   (1)   Final amounts retained shall be released to the subdivider, with
accrued interest, if any, following written recommendation by the Village
Engineer for final approval and acceptance by the Village Board.
      (2)   Following the one-year maintenance period, and finding by the
Village Engineer that all of the public improvements are in good and
satisfactory condition, the Village Board shall take formal action at a meeting
to approve and accept public improvements.
      (3)   At such time, the final amounts of surety shall be released to the
developer, with accrued interest, if any.
   (J)   Each applicant for approval of a condominium subdivision shall pay a
review fee of $20 per unit to help defray the cost to the village of reviewing
the plans and making a determination as to whether or not the proposed
condominium subdivision complies with all applicable ordinances. This review
fee will not be refundable, whether or not the condominium subdivision is
approved.
   (K)   A preliminary plat fee of not less than $150 shall be paid by the
subdivider to the village for legal and engineering review prior to
consideration by the Village Board. An additional fee shall be paid based on
the number of lots in the preliminary plat based on the following schedule:
No. of Lots Base Fee Additional Fee per Lot Fee Range
No. of Lots   Base Fee Additional Fee per Lot Fee Range
Less than 5   $150     $0                     $150
6 to 10       $150     $50                    $200 to $400
11 to 20      $400     $30                    $430 to $700
21 to 40      $700     $20                    $720 to $1,100
41 to 60      $1,100   $15                    $1,115 to $ 1,400
61 to 100     $1,400   $10                    $1,410 to $1,800
More than 100 $1,800   $5                     $1,805 minimum
 
   (L)   (1)   A final plat fee of not less than $150 shall be paid by the
subdivider to the village for legal and engineering review of each plat.
      (2)   An additional fee shall be paid based on the number of lots in the
final plat based on the following schedule:
No. of Lots Base Fee Additional Fee per Lot Fee Range
No. of Lots   Base Fee Additional Fee per Lot Fee Range
Less than 5   $150     $0                     $150
6 to 10       $150     $30                    $180 to $300
11 to 20      $400     $20                    $320 to $500
21 to 40      $700     $15                    $515 to $800
41 to 60      $1,100   $10                    $810 to $1,000
61 to 100     $1,400   $8                     $1,001 to $1,320
More than 100 $1,800   $5                     $1,325 minimum
 
   (M)   (1)   For each set of subdivision construction plans, specifications,
bidding documents, construction cost estimates, estimate of construction time
and drainage plan, the subdivider shall pay a fee not less than $700 to the
village for engineering review prior to consideration by the Village Board.
      (2)   An additional fee shall be paid based on the number of lots in the
final plat based on the following schedule:
No. of Lots Base Fee Additional Fee per Lot Fee Range
No. of Lots   Base Fee Additional Fee per Lot Fee Range
Less than 5   $700     $0                     $700
6 to 10       $700     $50                    $750 to $950
11 to 20      $950     $40                    $990 to $1,350
21 to 40      $1,350   $30                    $1,380 to $1,950
41 to 60      $1,950   $25                    $1,975 to $2,450
61 to 100     $2,450   $20                    $2,470 to $3,250
More than 100 $3,250   $10                    $3,260 minimum
 
   (N)   A condominium review fee of $20 per unit shall be required.
   (O)   All fees shall be paid to the Village Clerk at the time of submittal
of the plats and plans.
   (P)   In addition to the above review fees, the subdivider shall pay a
subdivision development fee for water and sewer system upgrades and extensions
necessary to serve the new development. Such fee shall be negotiated at the
time the preliminary plat is presented for approval and shall be paid by the
developer at the time the final plat is approved by the Village Board.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016; Ord. 19-115, passed 12-2-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees for land use, see
Chapter 157
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.35 ALLEYS.
   (A)   The minimum width of alley right-of-way shall be 20 feet.
   (B)   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided.
Where they are required, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movement.
   (C)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible. If unavoidable, they
shall be provided with adequate turn around facilities acceptable to the
Village Engineer and Planning Commission.
   (D)   Alley surfaces shall be constructed of not less than a 12-inch thick
CA-6 crushed aggregate and surfaced with an A-3 surface.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.36 BLOCKS.
   (A)   The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to the following:
      (1)   Zoning requirements as to lot size;
      (2)   Limitations of topography;
      (3)   Needs for convenient access, traffic movement, control and safety
of street traffic; and
      (4)   Provisions of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of subdivision contemplated.
   (B)   Pedestrian crosswalk or walkways shall be required to provide
circulation, access to schools and playgrounds, shopping centers,
transportation and other community facilities. Walkways shall not be less than
ten feet wide.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.37 DRAINAGE REPORT.
   (A)   A drainage report consisting of plans, calculations and a narrative
shall be submitted along with the construction plans for all subdivisions, as
defined herein. The drainage report submitted for the first phase of a multi-
phase subdivision must address the drainage plan for the entire subdivision and
must specify what facilities will be constructed to control runoff such that
each phase is in compliance with this chapter. The report must be reviewed and
approved by the Village Engineer.
   (B)   For developments which do not require a final plat, a drainage plan
shall be submitted and approved prior to the issuance of a building permit.
   (C)   The drainage report shall be comprehensive in nature and shall address
how all components of the stormwater drainage system are designed and will be
constructed to comply with this chapter. Each report shall have, as a minimum,
the following items:
      (1)   Natural land contours at one-foot intervals;
      (2)   Final grading contours at one-foot intervals;
      (3)   A construction pad for each lot with spot elevations. The
construction pad shall be the proposed finished ground elevation at the
building perimeter. The top of building foundation or basement wall elevation
shall be a minimum of six inches above the ground elevation adjacent to the
foundation or wall;
      (4)   (a)   A finished grade on each lot allowing for a minimum slope of
5% for a minimum of ten feet from any building foundation and a minimum of 2%
away from any building beyond the ten-foot limit. Where a swale is used to
convey drainage from two or more lots, the swale may have a minimum slope of
1.5%; provided, the swale is constructed as part of the larger development and
is final graded and seeded prior to issuance of any building permits.
         (b)   Exception: where lot lines, walls, slopes or other physical
barriers prohibit six inches of fall within ten feet, the final grade shall
slope away from the foundation at a minimum slope of 5% and the water shall be
directed to drains or swales to ensure drainage away from the structure. Swales
shall be sloped a minimum of 2% when located within ten feet of the building
foundation. Impervious surfaces within ten feet of the building foundation
shall be sloped a minimum of 2% away from the building.
      (5)   Any and all swales, ditches or other features that may be used to
convey stormwater. Spot elevations, grades and typical cross-sections shall be
shown for all swales, ditches and defined overland drainage ways;
      (6)   The lot lines, numbers and building setback lines for all lots;
      (7)   All stormwater runoff controls and stormwater detention/retention
basins;
      (8)   The location and direction of all stormwater flow into the
subdivision and the location and direction of all stormwater flow out of the
subdivision; and
      (9)   Calculations developed for the design of the proposed system.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.38 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements shall be provided for utilities centered on rear and/or side
lot lines and along street rights-of-way where necessary. Easements for sump
pump drain lines and street lights shall be located as approved by the Village
Engineer. Easements shall be a minimum of ten feet in width. Water main
easements shall be a minimum of 15 feet in width. Storm sewer and sanitary
sewer easements shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream stormwater or detention facility where the runoff from a base
flood storm exceeds one cubic foot per second, a watercourse easement or
drainage way easement shall be provided conforming substantially with the lines
of the watercourse and/or detention facilities. The width of the easement shall
be sufficient for the watercourse and future maintenance access to the drainage
way.
   (C)   A planting screen easement of at least ten feet in width shall be
provided along the lines of lots abutting a traffic artery of reverse frontage
lots.
   (D)   (1)   Detention/retention facilities shall be private property under
the ownership of the subdivider or an association of subdivision owners.
Responsibility for maintenance and repairs of detention/retention facilities
shall belong to the subdivider or an association of subdivision owners.
      (2)   A permanent easement for such facilities shall be provided to allow
the village access to inspect and address any public emergency conditions that
warrant action.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.39 GAS MAINS AND APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   Gas main design and installation shall be approved by Ameren.
   (B)   Gas mains shall be located between the proposed sidewalk and the
proposed curb on the opposite side of the roadway from the water mains.
   (C)   All gas main trenches located below street surfaces, curb and gutters
and sidewalks shall be backfilled with selected granular backfill.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.40 LOTS.
   (A)   (1)   The area, width and depth of all lots shall not be less than
required by the village’s Zoning Code. No outlot, remainder or remnant of land
which is part of the tract being subdivided shall be created which, by reason
of the lot width, depth, area, frontage, topography or lack of access, or
otherwise, cannot be used as a zoning lot or be subject to further subdivision
in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   Any remaining parcel or outlot which cannot be made to comply with
this code shall be eliminated by combining the area with one or more adjoining
lots which do comply or by conveying it to a public body for an appropriate
public use, subject to acceptance, or by conveyance to an association of
homeowners as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   All properties reserved or laid out for commercial and/or industrial
purposes shall be adequate to provide off-street service and parking. The area
required for these uses shall be determined by the type of use and development
contemplated and as required by the Zoning Code.
   (C)   If public sanitary sewers are not available and individual on-lot
sewage systems are to be used for sewage disposal, the minimum lot size shall
be 20,000 square feet.
   (D)   If neither a public sanitary sewer nor a public water system is
available, the minimum lot size shall be one acre with a lot width at the
setback line of 110 feet or more.
   (E)   Reverse frontage lots shall be avoided, except where essential to
provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to
overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
   (F)   Corner lots in residential subdivisions shall have extra width to
permit building orientation to either street.
   (G)   Lots in residential subdivisions with pedestrian crosswalk easements
shall have the minimum side yard dimensions increased in width equal to the
projection into the easement on the lot.
   (H)   All residential lots shall conform to the following general standards,
in addition to all other requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   All such residential lots shall have access and frontage on a
public street. An alley may only be a secondary access. Only in very unique and
unusual conditions, the Planning Commission may allow this requirement be
waived where, due to unique circumstances or topographical limitations, access
to a public street must be provided by either a private drive or an ingress/
egress easement.
      (2)   If zero lot line multi-family lots or structures have any shared
elements, the developer shall submit to the village all maintenance and
management agreements for any such shared elements including, but not limited
to, driveways and roofs. Additionally, all applicable regulations within §
152.07 of this chapter shall be in effect for any shared elements.
      (3)   Flag lots will not be permitted, except where it is found that
another lot configuration is not practical due to adjacent waterways,
topography or existing development and that a street cannot reasonably serve
the portion of the property intended for flag lots. Such flag lots must satisfy
all of the following requirements.
         (a)   Each lot provides for a minimum width at the right-of-way line
of 60 feet, with the exception of zero lot line multi-family lots. The minimum
width shall be maintained from the right-of- way line to the main or principal
use area, or building area, of such lot.
         (b)   The length of such access portion of the lot connecting to the
street does not exceed 300 feet.
   (I)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street right-of-way.
   (J)   Building setback lines shall be established on all lots. The setback
lines shall be appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type
of development and use contemplated. Minimum setback lines shall be established
by the Zoning Code.
   (K)   All lot corners, angle points and points of curvature shall be marked
with a monument. Monuments shall be set by or under the direction of a state
registered land surveyor and shall be iron pipe, three-fourths-inch by 24-inch
or equal.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.41 POWER LINES.
   All power lines shall be installed underground. All main power lines shall
be installed in a utility easement at the front, rear or side lot lines.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.42 SANITARY SEWERS AND APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete sanitary
sewer system which shall be connected with the municipal sanitary sewer system.
Connection of new sanitary sewers to the existing system shall not be made
until approved by the Village Engineer. The connection of the new sanitary
sewer shall be sealed with a water-tight plug at all times until final testing
is complete.
   (B)   The size and material type of sanitary sewers and appurtenances shall
be approved by the Village Engineer. The minimum size of sewer mains shall be
eight inches and the minimum size of sewer laterals shall be six inches. The
type of material used for sewers greater than 18 inches in diameter or laid at
depths exceeding 28 feet or at stream crossings and in unstable ground shall be
approved by the Village Engineer.
   (C)   Sanitary sewers and appurtenances shall be in accordance with the
latest edition of the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Construction
in Illinois.
   (D)   No storm sewers, sump drain lines, footing tile lines and the like
shall be connected to sanitary sewer lines.
   (E)   All sanitary sewers and service lines shall be laid with a minimum
cover of four feet.
   (F)   All sanitary sewers shall be installed on granular cradle bedding.
   (G)   All sanitary sewer main and service line trenches located below or
within two feet of street surfaces, sidewalks and curbs and gutters shall be
backfilled with select granular backfill and mechanically compacted to 95%
Standard Proctor Density (SPD) in minimum 12-inch loose layers.
   (H)   All other sanitary sewer trenches shall be compacted by mechanical
compaction, jetting and water soaking or another means, as approved by the
Village Engineer.
   (I)   A tee and lateral shall be constructed for each individual lot or
parcel in the subdivision and shall be a minimum of six inches in diameter. The
lateral shall extend to five feet beyond the right-of- way line. A service
riser shall be installed at the point five feet from the right-of-way line.
   (J)   Manholes shall be built where sewers change in size, slope or
direction, and at a maximum spacing of 400 feet for sewers 15 inches and less
in diameter and 500 feet for sewers 18 inches through 30 inches in diameter.
Manholes shall be precast concrete.
   (K)   All new sanitary sewers and appurtenances shall be tested for leakage
by air exfiltration under pressure or other methods approved by the Village
Engineer, tested for deflection, lamped for straightness and visually
inspected. All tests shall be performed by the subdivider’s engineer or an
independent testing company or under the observation of the Village Engineer
and test results documented and submitted to the Village Engineer for review.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.43 SIDEWALKS.
   Concrete sidewalks shall be provided in all subdivisions on both sides of
all public streets.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall comply with the state’s Accessibility Code and federal
guidelines presented as the Proposed Accessibility Guidelines for Pedestrian
Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way; commonly referred to as “PROWAG.”
   (B)   Sidewalks shall be not less than five feet wide and not less than four
inches thick.
   (C)   Sidewalks shall be within the public right-of-way and not closer than
six inches from the street right-of-way lines. Sidewalks shall be separated
from the street curb by a turf or landscape area not less than five feet wide.
   (D)   Sidewalks through driveways shall comply with maximum sidewalk slope
criteria per PROWAG.
   (E)   Sidewalk thickness through driveways serving commercial and industrial
properties shall also be not less than six inches thick or equal to the
driveway thickness, whichever is greater.
   (F)   In the event a sidewalk must be constructed adjacent to a street or
parking lot curb, the width shall be six feet wide.
   (G)   All sidewalks within street right-of-way, public park areas and
subdivision common areas shall be constructed by the subdivider as part of the
subdivision construction. Owners that purchase and develop individual lots
within the subdivision will be required to protect the sidewalk, curb, gutter
and all public infrastructure. Any damage caused by owner’s private
construction activities shall be repaired by at the owner’s expense to the
satisfaction of the Village Engineer.
   (H)   In all new commercial developments, a minimum eight-foot wide walking
space shall be constructed where the primary entrance is located. A minimum
four-foot wide walking space shall be constructed on the sides of the building
that provide parking. In addition, two and one-half feet of parking overhang
shall be provided or in addition to the minimum walking space when angle of 90-
degree parking abuts the sidewalk and parking blocks are not provided. The
walking space shall be separated from vehicular traffic through the use of
grade differences, paving material and/or additional landscaping. The walking
space shall be constructed in addition to any required exterior sidewalks.
Staff may waive or reduce the walking space requirements where it is
impractical or unnecessary.
   (I)   In new commercial developments of 60,000 square feet or larger, it is
recommended that an on-site sidewalk system be constructed to provide safe
pedestrian circulation within the development.
   (J)   In new commercial and industrial developments, with the exception of
where sidewalks cross driveways, sidewalks shall be separated from vehicle
parking and vehicle maneuvering areas by grade differences, paving material
and/or landscaping. Sidewalk/driveway crossings shall be minimized as much as
possible in the design of an on-site sidewalk system. Sidewalks shall connect
to any existing or planned recreational trails.
   (K)   Where sidewalks are not deemed necessary for the public safety or
where topographical concerns or other conditions make their installation and
use impractical, the developer or owner may apply to the Village Board, to
waive the sidewalk requirements for specified locations.
   (L)   The Village Board of Trustees may vary the application of the
provisions of this section in harmony with their general purpose and intent
where the Village Board of Trustees finds that there are practical difficulties
or particular hardship in carrying out the strict letter of the provisions of
this section; provided, however, that such variation may only be granted in the
case of sidewalks being constructed to replace existing sidewalks.
   (M)   Cast iron plates shall be used for all new reconstructed sidewalk
ramps, pursuant to a detail plan provided by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016; Ord. 24-113, passed 9-3-2024; Ord. 25-103,
passed 2-3-2025)
§ 152.44 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   A stormwater management (SWM) permit is required for all regulated
development under this chapter.
      (2)   No regulated activities shall commence until the village issues
written approval of a SWM permit.
      (3)   The SWM permit approved by the Plat Officer is required to be on
site throughout the duration of the regulated activity.
      (4)   All regulated activities (pre- and post-construction, erosion and
sediment control measures and stormwater management BMPs) shall be designed,
implemented, operated and maintained to meet the purposes and requirements of
this chapter. Various BMPs and their design standards are listed in the
Illinois Urban Manual.
      (5)   All regulated activities shall include such measures as necessary
to:
         (a)   Protect health, safety and property; and
         (b)   Meet the water quality goals of this chapter by implementing
measures to:
            1.   Protect and/or improve the function of floodplains, wetlands
and wooded areas.
            2.   Protect and/or improve native plant communities, including
those within the riparian corridor;
            3.   Protect and/or improve natural drainage ways from erosion;
            4.   Minimize thermal impacts to waters of the state; and
            5.   Minimize runoff to impervious surfaces by directing runoff to
pervious areas.
      (6)   (a)   The measurement of an impervious area shall include all of
the impervious areas in the total proposed development, even if development is
to take place in stages or phases.
         (b)   For development taking place in stages or phases, the entire
development plan must be used in determining conformance with this chapter.
         (c)   Any areas designed to initially be gravel or crushed stone shall
be assumed to be impervious.
         (d)   For new permeable pavement, designers should use one-half of the
measured infiltration rate during design to approximate long-term infiltration
rates or similar design standards based on the specifications of pavement used
in the design.
      (7)   A minimum ten-foot wide access easement shall be provided for all
proposed stormwater facilities with tributary areas equal to or greater than
1,000 square feet and not located within a public right-of-way. Easements shall
provide for ingress and egress to a public right-of-way.
      (8)   Drainage easements shall be provided where the conveyance,
treatment or storage of stormwater, either existing or proposed, is identified
on the SWM permit. Drainage easements shall be provided to contain and convey
the 100-year frequency flood.
      (9)   A plan for the ongoing maintenance of all stormwater management
system components, including wetlands and buffer areas, is required prior to
plan approval. The plan shall include:
         (a)   Maintenance tasks;
         (b)   The party responsible for performing the maintenance tasks;
         (c)   A description of all permanent public or private access
maintenance easements and overland flow paths and compensatory storage areas;
and
         (d)   A description of dedicated sources of funding for the required
maintenance.
   (B)   Site runoff controls. Site runoff control for large storms, up to the
100-year event, is essential to protect against immediate downstream erosion
and flooding.
      (1)   Post-development discharge rates shall not exceed the exiting
conditions discharge rates for the two-, ten-, 50- and 100-year critical
duration storm events. If it is shown that the peak rates of discharge
indicated by the post-development analysis are less than or equal to the peak
rates of discharge indicated by the existing conditions analysis for two-,
ten-, 50- and 100-year critical duration storms, then the requirements of this
section have been met. Otherwise, the applicant shall provide additional
controls as necessary to satisfy the peak rate of discharge requirement. Peak
runoff rates shall be based on the critical duration storm.
      (2)   Any concentrated stormwater discharges leaving a site must be
conveyed into an existing channel, storm sewer or overland flow path with
adequate downstream stormwater capacity and will not result in increased
erosion, flood damage or other drainage hazard. Demonstration of this shall
include a comparison of existing and post-development velocity, discharge and
hydrograph at the location where stormwater leaves the site. Post-development
velocity, peak discharge and runoff volume shall be less than 110% of the
existing conditions of velocity, peak discharge and volume for the 100-year
critical duration storm.
      (3)   The design of stormwater management systems shall not result in any
transfer of water between watersheds unless no reasonable alternative exists as
determined by the Plat Officer.
      (4)   Concentrated stormwater discharge shall not be connected to an
existing field tile or any other drainage tile system unless the applicant
submits a maintenance agreement, recorded easement and a report that indicates
the existing system, from the connections to the discharge point in an open
channel, has adequate hydraulic capacity and structural integrity. The recorded
easement and maintenance agreement must extend from the connection to the
discharge point in an open channel. The recorded easement and maintenance
agreement must be approved by the Plat Officer prior to issuance of a
stormwater management permit.
      (5)   Calculation methodology:
         (a)   TR-20, WinTR-20, HEC-1, HEC-HMS or a (municipality)-approved
hydrograph producing a hydrologic model shall be used for the following:
            1.   To determine peak runoff rates for areas with a drainage area
of 100 acres or greater; and
            2.   To confirm the stormwater storage requirements for stormwater
facilities that have a drainage area of ten acres or more.
         (b)   TR-55 may be used to calculate discharges for areas that drain
less than 100 acres. TR-55 with a pond routing program such as TR-20 or HEC-
1 may be used to confirm stormwater storage requirements.
         (c)   The Rational Method may be used to calculate discharges for
drainage areas of less than 20 acres and the storm sewer design. The Rational
Method or the Modified Rational Formula shall not be used to determine
detention storage requirements.
         (d)   Climatic sectional rainfall data with appropriate application of
the areal to point ratio as presented in the State Water Survey Bulletin 70
shall be used for all hydrologic analysis.
         (e)   Rainfall should be distributed using the appropriate State Water
Survey Circular 173 Huff rainfall distribution (Huff, 1990); except that, SCS
Type II distribution is acceptable with TR-55.
         (f)   Runoff calculations for all off-site tributary land shall be
based on either the anticipated future land use conditions or existing land use
conditions. Anticipated future land use conditions will be based on future land
use and existing off-site storage facilities. Existing land use conditions will
be based on existing land use and existing off-site storage facilities.
   (C)   Detention facilities.
      (1)   Detention, along with green infrastructure, non-structural and
structural BMPS. are required for projects involving more than one acre of new
impervious area. Green infrastructure and non-structural BMPs are required to
control stormwater runoff for projects with less than one acre of new
impervious area.
      (2)   The area of development shall be used to calculate the detention
volume and allowable release rate from a detention facility in accordance with
the criteria stated herein in division (B)(1) above.
      (3)   All stormwater infiltration, retention and detention facilities
shall be provided with an emergency overflow structure or path capable of
passing the inflow from a critical duration 100-year storm without damages to
any structures on adjacent land. The emergency overflow structure shall have an
invert elevation at or above the design high water elevation. A minimum
freeboard of one foot shall be provided above the design high water elevation.
The freeboard should be measured from the design high water elevation to the
top of the berm. The overflow path shall not be located on top of the outlet
pipe.
      (4)   Where a single pipe outlet or orifice plate is to be used to
control discharge, it shall have a minimum diameter of 12 inches. If this
minimum size permits release rates greater than those specified in this
section, alternative outlet designs shall be utilized which incorporate self-
cleaning flow restrictors. The minimum area for the flow restrictor is 12.56
square inches (equivalent to a four-inch circular pipe). The outlet pipe and
control devices shall be designed to minimize maintenance requirements and
prevent tampering.
      (5)   Online detention facilities shall meet the following requirements.
         (a)   Online detention shall not be permissible on perennial streams.
This shall include, but not be limited to, all streams designated as
hydrographic category perennial in the NHD flowline feature class in the
National Hydrography Dataset (NHD) database.
         (b)   Online detention shall not be permissible with an off-site to
on-site drainage area ratio greater than 10:1.
         (c)   Online detention shall not be permissible if the drainage area
is greater than 640 acres.
         (d)   The required online detention volume shall be calculated based
on the hydrologically disturbed area of the ownership parcel and release rates.
The control structure shall be designed based on the total tributary area (on-
site and off-site) and release rates at the impoundment elevations established
by the required detention volumes.
         (e)   A stable overflow structure capable of passing the 100-year,
critical duration off-site flow rate shall be provided. The off-site flow rates
shall be calculated assuming existing conditions or future conditions with
detention required per this chapter, whichever is greater.
         (f)   All permitting requirements of USACE, IEPA and IDNR/OWR shall be
met.
         (g)   Online detention volume shall be in addition to the existing
floodplain storage.
      (6)   To the extent feasible, the distance between detention inlets and
outlets should be maximized. If possible, they should be at opposite ends of
the basin. There shall be no low flow bypass between the inlet and outlet, and
paved low flow channels shall not be used.
      (7)   The side slopes at the shoreline of wet and wetland detention
basins (from at least six inches below to at least six inches above normal
water level) shall be no steeper than 10:1 to prevent shoreline erosion due to
wave action and fluctuating water levels. Above shoreline areas, or in dry
bottom portions, the maximum side slope shall be 4:1.
      (8)   A 20-foot minimum setback shall be required from all property lines
and roadways to the normal pool elevation.
      (9)   A safety shelf with a minimum eight-foot width and no slope shall
be constructed no more than one foot below normal water level.
      (10)   The shoreline of wet detention basins shall be protected from
erosion. The preferred method of shoreline stabilization is native wetland and
wet prairie vegetation with a deep root system to stabilize the soils.
      (11)   Off-site flow may be diverted around a proposed detention
facility; provided that, the other applicable standards regarding regulatory
floodplain or flood-prone areas are met.
      (12)   Any development involving the construction, modification, or
removal of a dam as defined in 17 Ill. Admin. Code part 3702 (Rules for
Construction of Dams) shall obtain an IDNR/OWR dam safety permit or a letter
stating no permit is required prior to the start of such activity.
      (13)   Berms for stormwater infiltration, retention and detention
facilities shall not be constructed in a regulatory floodplain or a flood-prone
area unless approved by the Village Engineer. If a berm is constructed in a
regulatory floodplain or a flood-prone area, the development must meet the
requirements of the Floodplain Ordinance. The volume inside the stormwater
facility shall not be considered available for compensatory storage unless the
volume is in addition to the required detention volume and is available at the
appropriate storage interval.
      (14)   Detention facilities may connect to existing drain tiles or storm
sewers only if the applicant submits a maintenance agreement, recorded
easement, and a report that indicates the existing system from the connection
to the discharge point in an open channel has adequate hydraulic capacity and
structural integrity. The recorded easement and maintenance agreement must
extend from the connection to the discharge point in an open channel. The
recorded easement and maintenance agreement must be approved by the Plat
Officer prior to issuance of a stormwater management permit.
      (15)   Infiltration basins may be used as detention facilities subject to
the following.
         (a)   The basin must be designed to dewater within 72 hours following
the end of the 100-year critical duration storm event.
         (b)   The underlying soils must have an infiltration rate of at least
one-half inch per hour as determined by an engineer.
         (c)   Pretreatment facilities must be provided to prevent obstruction.
         (d)   The basin must be at least 200 feet away from any water supply
wells or maximum setback zone if established.
         (e)   Runoff from the areas that have water quality concerns or are
subject to frequent winter deicing must not be routed to the infiltration
facility.
         (f)   The bottom of the infiltration basin must be at least four feet
above the seasonal high ground water elevation.
   (D)   Buffer areas. Buffer areas shall be required for all areas defined as
waters of the United States (WOTUS). The buffer area for all WOTUS shall extend
landward from the ordinary high water mark. The buffer area for jurisdictional
or mitigated wetlands shall extend from the edge of the delineated wetland. A
property may contain a buffer area that originates from WOTUS on another
property. Buffer areas are divided into two types, linear buffers and water
body buffers.
      (1)   Linear buffers shall be designated along both sides of all channels
meeting the definition of WOTUS.
         (a)   When the channel has a watershed greater than 20 acres, the
minimum buffer shall be 30 feet on each side of the channel.
         (b)   Channels with an Index of Biotic Integrity (IBI) greater than 35
shall have a minimum buffer width of 100 feet on each side of the channel.
(Initial IBI based on IDNR, IEPA data or site specific assessment, whichever is
most current.)
      (2)   Water body buffers shall encompass all non-linear bodies of water
meeting the definition of WOTUS including wetlands, lakes and ponds.
         (a)   For all water bodies with a total surface area of one-tenth
acre, but less than one acre, a minimum buffer width of 30 feet shall be
established.
         (b)   For all water bodies with a total surface area greater than one
acre, but less than two and one-half acres, a minimum buffer width of 40 feet
shall be established.
         (c)   For all water bodies with a total surface area of two and one-
half acres, a minimum buffer width of 50 feet shall be established.
   (E)   Soil erosion and sediment control.
      (1)   Subdividers shall be responsible for complying with state and local
laws and regulations pertaining to the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System (NPDES) stormwater permit program.
      (2)   All subdivision construction plan sets shall include a site-
specific written document that identifies potential sources of stormwater
pollution at the construction site, describes practices to reduce pollutants in
stormwater discharges from the construction site (reduction of pollutants is
often achieved by controlling the volume of stormwater runoff), and identifies
procedures the operator will implement to comply with the terms and conditions
of a construction NPDES permit.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.45 STORM SEWERS AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   The design and construction of the storm sewers and appurtenances
shall be the responsibility of the subdivider and reviewed for acceptance by
the Village Engineer. The Rational Method as described in the most recent
version of the state’s Department of Transportation Drainage Manual shall be
used to design the municipal storm drainage system of the subdivision.
   (B)   Minimum capacity of storm sewers shall be adequate to carry a ten-year
storm under gravity flow conditions.
   (C)   Storm sewer inlets shall be placed such that runoff encroaches on no
more than one-half the pavement width for the ten-year design storm.
   (D)   Culverts carrying flow under a roads shall be designed based on the
street classification.
 
Classification Design Storm Event Freeboard (Pavement Low Point to High Water)
Arterial       50-year            3 feet
Collector      25-year            2 feet
Local street   25-year            1 feet
 
   (E)   The minimum design velocity for a storm sewer shall be two and one-
half feet per second. The maximum design velocity for a storm sewer shall be
eight feet per second.
   (F)   A concrete flared end section or cast-in-place headwall is required
for all culverts and storm sewer outlets.
   (G)   All field tile found during construction shall be left in a functional
condition and incorporated into the new drainage system.
   (H)   Storm sewers and appurtenances shall be installed in accordance with
the latest edition of the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Construction in Illinois. Connection of new storm sewers to the existing system
shall not be made until approved by the Village Engineer.
   (I)   Storm sewers located under streets shall be reinforced concrete with
bell and spigot or tongue and groove joints. Storm sewers not located under
streets may be PVC or other materials approved by the Village Engineer.
   (J)   Storm sewer manholes and inlets shall be precast concrete components
or monolith concrete. Bases shall be cast in place concrete or precast
concrete.
   (K)   Storm sewers shall be not smaller than 12-inch diameter and be
installed on granular cradle bedding.
   (L)   All storm sewers and appurtenances located below or within two feet of
street surfaces, sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be backfilled with select
granular backfill and mechanically compacted to a minimum of 95% SPD in minimum
12-inch loose lifts.
   (M)   All storm sewers shall be lamped for straightness and visually
inspected. All tests shall be done by the subdivider’s engineer or by an
independent testing company under the supervision of the subdivider’s engineer.
All test results shall be documented and submitted to the Village Engineer for
review.
   (N)   (1)   All areas of development must provide an overland flow path that
will pass the 100-year flood flow (including off-site tributary flow) without
damage to structures or property. If the drainage area is less than 20 acres,
the storm sewer pipe and inlet may be sized for the 100-year flow instead of
providing an overland flow path.
      (2)   The overland flow path shall be protected from any development,
such as fencing, landscaping, storage sheds or other obstructions which could
impair its function by impeding flow. This protection shall be established
through a properly recorded covenant running with the land, restricting the use
of the overland flow path area.
      (3)   Structures adjacent to an overland flow path shall have the
following lowest opening elevation for the following tributary areas:
         (a)   One-half foot above the BFE for tributary areas of 20 acres or
less; and
         (b)   One foot above the BFE for tributary areas of 20 acres or
greater.
   (O)   If the proposed activity involves a channel modification, it shall be
demonstrated that:
      (1)   There are no practicable alternatives to the activity that would
accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the body
of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank stabilization,
flood-proofing of existing structures, removal of structures from the
floodplain, clearing the channel, high flow channel or the establishment of a
stream side buffer strip or green belt. Channel modification is acceptable if
the purpose is to restore natural conditions and improve water quality and fish
and wildlife habitat;
      (2)   Water quality, habitat and other natural functions would be
improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may be destroyed,
or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent degree of natural
resource values;
      (3)   Migration of fish and other aquatic organisms will not be adversely
impacted, sediment bedload transport (a critical component of stream
geomorphology and function) will not be impaired, temporary or permanent
accumulation of sediment will not result and increases in stream water
temperatures will not occur; and
      (4)   The activity has been planned and designed to maintain the carrying
capacity of an altered or relocated watercourse and will be constructed in a
way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural conditions of the
body of water affected, consistent with the following criteria.
         (a)   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall match
as closely as possible to those of the existing channel in length, cross-
section, slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously
modified, restoration of more natural physical conditions should be
incorporated into a channel modification design, where practical.
         (b)   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at both
the upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they will
prevent erosion.
         (c)   One-sided construction of a channel shall be used when feasible.
For example, removal of streamside (riparian) vegetation should be limited to
one side of the channel, where possible, to preserve the shading and
stabilization effects of the vegetation.
         (d)   Clearing of stabilization vegetation shall be limited to that
which is essential for construction of the channel.
         (e)   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no steeper
than 3:1 horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable.
         (f)   All disturbed areas associated with the modifications shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of
construction to control erosion during normal and flood flows. An erosion
blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to stabilize disturbed
channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative cover. Permanent
stabilization shall be installed as soon as practical, but not later than ten
days after the channel construction is complete.
         (g)   Temporary erosion control shall be installed prior to excavation
associated with a channel modification and must be maintained throughout the
construction period. The temporary erosion control shall be removed upon
written notification from the (enforcement officer).
         (h)   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom diversity
such as deep pools, riffles and other similar features, such features shall be
provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and flow
characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established, where
appropriate.
         (i)   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry. All items
of construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to diversion
of water into the new channel.
         (j)   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the channel
enters or leaves the project or unless necessitated by a public flood control
project.
         (k)   Unless the modification is for a public flood control project,
there shall be no reduction in the volume of flood water storage outside the
floodway as a result of the modification (i.e., no floodplain fill).
         (l)   A channel maintenance easement is required along all channels
draining 100 acres or more. The minimum width of the maintenance easement shall
be 25 feet centered on the channel or the distance between the tops of banks
plus 20 feet, whichever is greater.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.46 STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make
provisions for the continuance of existing streets in adjoining areas.
      (2)   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of
streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for proper projection of
dedicated streets to the boundaries of the subdivision or development.
   (B)   The arrangement, width, grade and location of all streets shall be
considered in their relation to existing topographical conditions and safety.
   (C)   The proposed street network shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan.
   (D)   When a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed major
thoroughfare, the Planning Commission may require marginal access streets,
reverse frontage lots with screen plantings, rear service alleys or such other
treatment as may be necessary to provide separation of through and local
traffic.
   (E)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited,
except where their control is placed with the village under conditions approved
by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
   (G)   Streets shall be laid to intersect as nearly as possible at right
angles. No street shall intersect any other street at less than a 75-degree
angle.
   (H)   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded or clipped as
necessary to provide sufficient space for the intersection radii, sidewalk
ramps and traffic control devices.
   (I)   Dead end streets shall be provided with a turnaround cul-de-sac having
an outside pavement diameter of at least 80 feet and a street right-of-way
diameter of at least 100 feet. The length of a dead end street shall not exceed
600 feet measured from the center point of the turn-around to the centerline of
an intersecting street.
   (J)   Access to state and county highways at intervals of less than 1,320
feet shall not be allowed, except where impractical or impossible due to
existing property divisions or topography. Streets within new subdivisions
shall be arranged to permit access to adjacent future subdivisions to meet this
requirement.
   (K)   All underground utilities that lie or cross under the proposed
pavement shall be constructed prior to any street construction. Trenches shall
be backfilled with either flowable fill or select granular backfill to a point
two feet behind the curb. If street pavement is to be constructed in the same
season the trench is installed, flowable fill shall be used as the backfill
material. Trenches allowed to settle through a winter and spring season before
pavement is installed can be backfilled with select granular backfill and
compacted mechanically to 95% SPD in minimum 12-inch loose lifts.
   (L)   Streets constructed outside the corporate limits of the village, but
within the mile and one-half extraterritorial jurisdiction shall also conform
to the rules, specifications and regulations regarding location, width, grades,
surface and drainage structures applicable to the township road system. The
review, approval and acceptance of roads or streets in the township is
performed by the township Highway Commissioner, in coordination with the
village, and acceptance shall be filed with the County Clerk and County
Engineer.
   (M)   The location of trees planted in parkways or street rights-of-way is
subject to approval of the Village Engineer. Trees should be a minimum of two-
inch caliper. The recommended types of trees are: Norway Maple; Red Maple; Amur
Cork-Tree; Little Leaf Linden; Common Hackberry; or American Linden.
   (N)   Street functional classification and characteristics shall be as
follows:
 
                          Pavement Curb and Grass Buffer Sidewalk Minimum
Classification1 ROW Width Width    Gutter   Width (SW to Width    Design Speed
                                            Curb)
Arterial        75 feet2  44 feet2 B-6.18   7.5 feet     5 feet   30 mph
Collector       60 feet2  34 feet2 B-6.18   5 feet       5 feet   30 mph
Local street    55 feet   29 feet  B-6.18   5 feet       5 feet   20 mph
NOTES TO TABLE:
 
1 The village may consider variations of the classification and cross-section
widths if the subdivider presents unique characteristics or conditions that
warrant special consideration. For example, industrial, commercial and
residential subdivisions will be designed based on their respective land use.
 
2 If traffic studies indicate that more than two lanes for through traffic
and/or turning traffic are necessary, the pavement and right-of-way widths
shall be increased accordingly. The Village Engineer shall evaluate traffic
studies prepared by the subdivider’s engineer to assist in this evaluation.
 
   (O)   Geometric design policies for village roadways shall be as stated in
the most recent version of the state’s Department of Transportation’s Bureau of
Local Roads and Streets Manual. More specifically, horizontal alignment shall
comply with the low-speed urban streets criteria unless directed otherwise by
the Village Engineer.
   (P)   Design speed shall control roadway design values. Design speed for all
subdivision streets shall be established in cooperation with the Village
Engineer during the pre-application process or in the early stages of the
preliminary plat process. Design speed values provided in the table above may
be modified by the Village Engineer.
   (Q)   Pavement material and thickness design shall be in accordance with the
most recent version of the state’s Department of Transportation’s Bureau of
Local Roads and Streets Manual. More specifically, Ch. 44 in the 2012 manual
version. The rigid (PCC) pavement design or full-depth HMA pavement design
shall be used for subdivision streets. For all pavements, a granular sub-base
not less than eight inches shall be constructed.
   (R)   Longitudinal slopes of pavements and gutters shall not be less than
0.5%.
   (S)   (1)   Driveway widths shall not be less than 12 feet wide and not more
than 35 feet wide. A residential property may only have one driveway and that
driveway may not be wider than 24 feet at the property line. Residential
driveways shall be concrete and not less than six inches thick within the
public right-of-way.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial zoned properties must also build concrete
driveways within the public right-of-way and the concrete must be not less than
eight inches thick.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.47 STREET LIGHTING.
   Lighting in each residential subdivision shall consist of a combination of
individual yard lights placed on each lot in addition to street pole lights
placed as directed by the Village Engineer or his or her designee at the time
of construction plan review and approval. Yard lights shall be placed within
ten feet from the back of the sidewalk or edge of the right-of-way. Street pole
lights shall be placed at intersecting streets where one or more of the
intersecting streets have or will have a posted speed of 30 mph or greater. In
addition, street pole lights shall be placed where in the opinion of the
Village Engineer, the horizontal and/or vertical street alignment warrants
placement of a light.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.48 STREET NAMES, SIGNS AND NUMBERING.
   (A)   The subdivider shall designate all street names. No street name shall
be used which will duplicate or be confused with the name of any existing
street. All street names must be approved by the Plat Officer.
   (B)   The subdivider shall pay the cost for materials and installation of
street and traffic signs. The signs shall be installed by the subdivider’s
contractor in accordance with the approved construction plans. Sign materials
and installation methods and locations shall comply with federal, state and
local policies. The latest version of the FHWA Manual for Uniform Traffic
Control Standards shall govern traffic control sign design and installation.
   (C)   Street numbers shall be assigned by the county’s Emergency Telephone
System Board.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.49 SUMP PUMP DRAIN LINE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide sump pump drain lines to drain the sump
pump discharge lines from each lot or parcel in the subdivision where a sump
pump drain line cannot be discharged directly into a drainage ditch or swale.
Sump pump drain lines are not required for lots one acre or greater and sump
pump lines must discharge to the rear of all properties.
   (B)   Sump pump drain lines shall be installed in the grass area between the
sidewalk and curb. The street storm sewer pipes shall not have tee connections
installed for sump pump drain lines.
   (C)   Manholes or cleanouts shall be provided on the sump drain lines at a
maximum spacing of 500 feet and shall be located in street right-of-way or
easements adjacent to street right-of-way accessible for maintenance.
   (D)   Sump drain lines shall discharge into drainage ditches, storm sewer
inlets or storm sewer manholes.
   (E)   A tee in the sump pump drain line shall be provide for each lot. The
subdivider shall install a lateral line for each lot and install a cleanout at
the property line. The owner of each lot shall install a lateral line between
the house and the lateral cleanout connection.
   (F)   All sump drain line construction within the street right-of-way shall
be in accordance with the village’s construction standards and shall become a
part of the village’s storm sewer system. Outside the village’s corporate
limits, sump pump drain lines shall be maintained by the property owner.
   (G)   All sump drain lines located below sidewalks, curb and gutters shall
be backfilled with select granular backfill.
   (H)   All sump drain line trenches in or adjacent to street right-of-way
shall be compacted by mechanical compaction to 95% SPD in minimum 12-inch loose
lifts, or another means, as approved by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.50 TELEPHONE AND CABLE TELEVISION LINES.
   All main telephone, internet and cable television lines in subdivisions
shall be installed along either the front or rear lot lines. All lines shall be
installed underground. All main lines shall be installed in a utility easement.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 152.51 WATER MAINS AND APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete water
main supply system which shall be connected to the municipal water supply.
Water systems shall be looped (meaning having two distinct sources of supply or
points of connection to the existing system) wherever possible. Where not
presently possible, main shall be installed to allow for future looping.
   (B)   Water mains shall be located between the proposed sidewalk and the
proposed curb. The minimum size for water mains shall be six inches. Larger
size water mains shall be provided if required to adequately serve the proposed
subdivision. If larger size mains are required by the village to serve areas
other than the proposed subdivision, the cost difference may be paid by the
village in accordance with the current policies in effect at the time the
subdivision is considered. The subdivider must obtain approval from the Village
Engineer of the water system design before any subdivision construction is
started.
   (C)   Water mains and appurtenances shall be installed in accordance with
the village construction standards and with the most recent edition of Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. Connection of
new water mains to the existing system shall not be made until approved by the
Village Engineer.
   (D)   Water mains shall be CL350 Tyton joint ductile iron pipe, or polyvinyl
chloride (PVC) with a minimum rating of DR18 PC 235 psi. Iron pipe size SDR21
or SDR26 is not permitted.
   (E)   A locating tape (tracer wire) shall be installed with all PVC water
mains. Tracer wire shall have an HDPE jacket; THHN coated wire is not allowed.
   (F)   Gate valves and boxes shall be provided to adequately valve the water
system.
   (G)   Fire hydrants and appurtenances shall be furnished and installed by
the subdivider at a maximum spacing of 600 feet. Hydrants shall be Mueller
Model A423, five and one-fourth inch diameter three-way hydrants. All hydrants
shall be isolated by a valve.
   (H)   An individual water service shall be installed for each lot or parcel
in the subdivision. All service lines shall be 200 psi copper tube size HDPE
tubing. Fittings shall be Mueller type C100 compression fittings.
   (I)   All water mains and service lines shall be laid with a minimum cover
of four feet.
   (J)   All water main and service line trenches located below or within two
feet of street surfaces, sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be backfilled with
select granular backfill and mechanically compacted to a minimum of 95% SPD in
minimum 12-inch loose lifts.
   (K)   All other water main trenches shall be compacted by mechanical
compaction, jetting and water soaking or another means, as approved by the
Village Engineer.
   (L)   All new water mains and appurtenances shall be visually inspected,
disinfected, pressure tested and leak tested. The testing shall be done by the
subdivider’s engineer or an independent testing company under the observation
of the Village Engineer. The system must pass all tests prior to being
connected to the municipal water system.
   (M)   All water main and service construction shall be performed in
accordance with the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois, latest edition.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
CONSTRUCTION
§ 152.65 CONSTRUCTION INSPECTIONS AND DEVIATIONS FROM THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The village, or the designated representative of the village, shall
have access to the subdivision site at all times to observe the improvements
during and after construction. A pre-construction conference to be held with
the Village Engineer, subdivider, subdivider’s engineer and subdivider’s
general contractor is encouraged to discuss the requirements for public
improvements, including, but not limited to, construction specifications,
bonding, scheduling and testing.
   (B)   The subdivider shall notify the village at least 24 hours in advance
of any underground construction of improvements.
   (C)   The subdivider shall be responsible for the inspection of all
improvements to ensure that all construction is done in accordance with village
and state codes and requirements. The subdivider shall provide sufficient
engineering inspection so that the subdivider’s engineer can certify that all
construction was completed in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications.
   (D)   No significant deviation from the approved construction plans and
specifications shall be permitted without the written approval of the Village
Engineer. In the event of a discrepancy between sets of plans and
specifications for the subdivision, the official copy on file with the village
shall take precedence.
   (E)   The subdivider shall certify that all improvements have been
constructed in accordance with village and state codes and requirements and
with the approved plans and specifications. This certification shall be
required for each improvement made prior to the release by the village of the
subdivision bond, cash deposit or any portion thereof. The engineer for the
subdivider shall also certify that all improvements have been constructed in
accordance with village and state codes and requirements and with the approved
plans and specifications. This certification shall be required for each
improvement made prior to the release by the village of the subdivision bond
and the like, cash deposit or any portion thereof.
   (F)   The contractor or subcontractor responsible for installing each
improvement shall also certify that all improvements have been constructed in
accordance with village and state codes and requirements and with the approved
plans and specifications. This certification shall be required for each
improvement prior to the release by the village of the subdivision bond and the
like, cash deposit or any portion thereof.
   (G)   One copy of “as built” construction plans must be submitted to the
village prior to the release of the subdivision bond and the like.
(Ord. 16-102, passed 4-4-2016)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Language construction
   
153.002   Definitions
   
153.003   Amendments to Zoning Ordinance
   
153.004   Repeal of prior ordinance
   
153.005   Interpretation
   
153.006   Validity
   
153.007   Violations and penalties
Zoning Districts and Map
   
153.020   Districts established
   
153.021   District boundaries
   
153.022   District boundaries interpreted
   
153.023   Zoning of annexed areas
   
153.024   Zoning of vacated areas
   
153.025   Main structures and uses
   
153.026   District requirements
General Limitations
   
153.040   Intent
R-1, R-1a Single -Family Residential District
   
153.055   Intent
   
153.056   Principal uses permitted
   
153.057   Special uses
   
153.058   Size and distance requirements
   
153.059   Building limitations and requirements
R-2, R-2a Two-Family Residential District
   
153.070   Intent
   
153.071   Principal uses permitted
   
153.072   Special uses
   
153.073   Size and distance requirements
   
153.074   Building limitations and requirements
R-3 Multiple-Family Residential District
   
153.085   Intent
   
153.086   Principal uses permitted
   
153.087   Required conditions
   
153.088   Special uses
   
153.089   Size and distance requirements
   
153.090   Building limitations and requirements
OS Office District
   
153.105   Intent
   
153.106   Principal uses permitted
   
153.107   Special uses
   
153.108   Required conditions
   
153.109   Size and distance requirements
   
153.110   Building limitations and requirements
B-1 Central Business District
   
153.125   Intent
   
153.126   Principal uses permitted
   
153.127   Special uses
   
153.128   Required conditions
   
153.129   Size and distance requirements
   
153.130   Building limitations and requirements
B-2 General Business District
   
153.145   Intent
   
153.146   Principal uses permitted
   
153.147   Special uses
   
153.148   Size and distance requirements
   
153.149   Building limitations and requirements
I-1 Light Industrial District
   
153.160   Intent
   
153.161   Principal uses permitted
   
153.162   Special uses
   
153.163   Size and distance requirements
   
153.164   Building limitations and requirements
I-2 General Industrial District
   
153.175   Intent
   
153.176   Principal uses permitted
   
153.177   Size and distance requirements
   
153.178   Building limitations and requirements
N-1 Institutional District
   
153.180   Intent
   
153.181   Permitted uses
   
153.182   Development
General Regulations
   
153.190   Conflicting regulations
   
153.191   Scope
   
153.192   Nonconforming lots, structures and uses of land
   
153.193   Accessory uses and buildings
   
153.194   Off-street parking requirements
   
153.195   Off-street parking layout, standards, construction and maintenance
   
153.196   Off-street loading and unloading
   
153.197   Uses not otherwise included within a specific use district
   
153.198   Performance standards
   
153.199   Greenbelts and plant materials
   
153.200   Signs
   
153.201   Exterior lighting
   
153.202   Residential entranceway
   
153.203   Corner clearance
   
153.204   Walls
   
153.205   Fences
   
153.206   Site plan review (all districts)
   
153.207   Frontage on a public street
   
153.208   Access to major thoroughfare/collector street
   
153.209   Mailboxes and newspaper receptacles
   
153.210   Short-term rental units
General Exceptions
   
153.220   Area, height and use exceptions
   
153.221   Essential services
   
153.222   Voting place
   
153.223   Height limit
   
153.224   Lots adjoining alleys
   
153.225   Yard regulations
   
153.226   Porches
   
153.227   Projections into yards
   
153.228   Access through yards
   
153.229   Existing uses in R, B and I districts
   
153.230   Television and satellite reception devices
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.245   Enforcement
   
153.246   Duties of code enforcement officer
   
153.247   Site plan
   
153.248   Permits
   
153.249   Certificates
   
153.250   Final inspection
   
153.251   Fees
Zoning Board
   
153.265   Organization
   
153.266   Appeals; how taken
   
153.267   Jurisdiction
   
153.268   Standards
   
153.269   Request for legal opinion
   
153.270   Miscellaneous
   
153.271   Appeals to court
   
Appendix A:   Illustrations
   
Appendix B:   Official Zoning Map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 LANGUAGE CONSTRUCTION.
   The following rules of construction apply to the text of this chapter:
   (A)   The particular shall control the general;
   (B)   In the case of any difference of meaning or implication between the
text of this chapter and any caption or illustration, the text shall control;
   (C)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word
“may” is permissive;
   (D)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary;
   (E)   A “building” or “structure” includes any part thereof;
   (F)   The phrase “used for” includes “arranged for,” “designed for,”
“intended for,” “maintained
for” or “occupied for;”
   (G)   The word “person” includes an individual, corporation, a partnership,
an incorporated association or any other similar entity;
   (H)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation
involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by the
conjunction “and,” “or,” “either...or,” the conjunction shall be interpreted as
follows:
      (1)   “And” indicates that all the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply;
      (2)   “Or” indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or
events may apply singly or in any combination; and
      (3)   “Either...or” indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
   (I)   Terms not herein defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned
to them.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE or ACCESSORY. A use which is clearly incidental to, or
customarily found in connection with, and (except in the case of accessory off-
street parking spaces or loading) located on the same lot of record as, the
principal use to which it is related.
   (1)   When ACCESSORY is used in this text, it shall have the same meaning as
ACCESSORY USE.
   (2)   An ACCESSORY USE includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Residential accommodations for servants and/or caretakers;
         (b)   Swimming pools for the use of the occupants of a residence, or
their guests;
         (c)   Domestic or agricultural storage in a barn, shed, tool room or
similar accessory building or other structure;
         (d)   A newsstand primarily for the convenience of the occupants of a
building, which is located wholly within such building and has no exterior
signs or displays;
         (e)   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock in connection
with a business or industrial use, unless such storage is excluded in the
applicable district regulations;
         (f)   Storage of goods used in or produced by industrial uses or
related activities, unless such storage is excluded in the applicable district
regulations;
         (g)   Accessory off-street parking spaces, open or enclosed, subject
to the accessory off-street parking regulations for the district in which the
lot of record is located. Uses clearly incidental to a main use such as, but
not limited to, offices of an industrial or commercial complex located on the
site of the commercial or industrial complex;
         (h)   Accessory off-street loading, subject to the off-street loading
regulations for the district in which the lot of record is located; and
         (i)   Accessory signs, subject to the sign regulations for the
district in which the lot of record is located.
   ALLEY. Any dedicated public way affording a secondary means of access to
abutting property, and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATIONS. Any change, addition or modification in construction or type of
occupancy, or in the structural members of a building, such as walls or
partitions, columns, beads or girders, the consummated act of which may be
referred to herein as altered or reconstructed.
   APARTMENTS. A suite of rooms or a room in a multiple-family building
arranged and intended for a place of residence of a single-family or a group of
individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. The general repair, engine rebuilding, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision service, such as body, frame or
fender straightening and repair; overall painting and undercoating of
automobiles.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is partly or wholly below grade,
but so located that the vertical distance from the average grade to the floor
is greater than the vertical distance from the average grade to the ceiling. A
basement shall not be a story. (See Appendix A, Illustrations 1 and 2.)
   BLOCK. The property abutting one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), or between the nearest
such street and un-subdivided acreage, lake or live stream; or between any of
the foregoing and any other barrier to the continuity of development, or
corporate boundary lines of the municipality.
   BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof
supported by columns or walls, and intended for the shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the established grade
to the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs; to the deck line of
mansard roofs, and to the average height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip
and gambrel roofs. (See
Appendix A, Illustration 3.)
   BUILDING LINE. A line formed by the face of the building, and for the
purposes of this chapter, a minimum building line is the same as a front
setback line. (See
Appendix A, Illustration 4.)
   CLUB. An organization of persons for special purposes or for the
promulgation of sports, arts, sciences, literature, politics or the like, but
not operated for profit.
   CLUSTER BOX. A group of three or more mailboxes at a single location.
   CONVALESCENT or NURSING HOME. A structure with sleeping rooms, where persons
are housed or lodged and are furnished with meals, nursing and medical care.
   DAYCARE CENTER. A daytime group facility for more than eight children which
gives care to children away from their home.
   DAYCARE HOME. A one-family dwelling which receives not more than eight
children for care during the day. The maximum of eight children includes the
family’s natural or adopted children under age 16 who are in the home under
full time care.
   DENSITY CONTROL FACTOR (DCF). The factor relating to family population
utilized in this chapter to control the number of dwellings allowed per acre of
land in planned residential developments.
   DEVELOPMENT. The construction of a new building or other structure on a lot
of record, the relocation of an existing building on another lot of record, or
the use of open land for a new use.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the incorporated area of the village within which
certain regulations and requirements or various combinations thereof apply
under the provisions of this chapter.
   DRIVE-IN. An establishment where food, frozen desserts or beverages are sold
to the customers in a ready-to-consume state and where the customer consumes
food, frozen desserts or beverages in an automobile parked upon the premises or
at other facilities provided for customers which are located outside the
building.
   DRIVE-THROUGH. An establishment so developed that some portion of its retail
or service character is dependent upon providing a driveway approach and
staging area specifically designed for motor vehicles to serve patrons while in
their motor vehicles, rather than within a building or structure, for carry-out
and consumption or use after the vehicle is removed from the premises.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, designed for occupancy by one
family for residential purposes and having cooking facilities.
      (1)   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building, or portion thereof, designed
exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living independently of
each other.
      (2)   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for and
occupied exclusively by one family.
      (3)   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for occupancy
by two families living independently of each other.
   ERECTED. Built, constructed, altered, reconstructed, moved upon or any
physical operations on the premises which are required for construction,
excavation, fill, drainage and the like, shall be considered a part of
erection.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal departments of underground, surface or overhead;
gas, electrical, steam, fuel or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm and police call
boxes, traffic signals and hydrants in connection herewith, but not including
buildings which are necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such
utilities or municipal departments for the general health, safety or welfare.
   EXCAVATION. Any breaking of ground, except common household gardening and
ground care.
   EXCEPTION. A use permitted only after review of an application by the Zoning
Board and the Village Board or a modification in the standards of this chapter
specifically permitted after review by the Zoning Board and the Village Board;
such review being necessary because the provisions of this chapter covering
conditions precedent or subsequent are not precise enough to all applications
without interpretation and such review and exception is provided for by this
chapter. An exception is not a variance.
   FAMILY. One or two persons or parents, with their direct lineal descendants
and adopted or foster children (and including the domestic employees thereof)
together with not more than three persons not so related living together in the
whole or part of a dwelling comprising a single housekeeping unit. Every
additional group of two or less persons living in such housekeeping unit shall
be considered a separate family for the purpose of this chapter.
   FENCE. A man-made structure constructed for the purpose of or, to have the
effect of, enclosing the area it is constructed on.
   FENCE; ORNAMENTAL. A man-made structure the surface area of which is more
than 75% open. ORNAMENTAL FENCES do not include chain link fences or fences of
wire construction.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The ratio of the floor area of a building to its lot area.
For example: when a FLOOR AREA RATIO of 0.4 is specified, the floor area of a
building constructed on a lot of 10,000 square feet in area is limited to a
maximum of 4,000 square feet, the number of stories being optional. The
building area may be 4,000 square feet for one story;, 2,000 square feet for
each of two stories, and so forth. The purpose of this RATIO is to control the
bulk of buildings.
   FLOOR AREA; RESIDENTIAL. For the purpose of computing the minimum allowable
floor area in a residential dwelling unit, the sum of the horizontal areas of
each story of the building shall be measured from the exterior faces of the
exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two dwellings. The
floor area measurement is exclusive of areas of basement, unfinished attics,
attached garages, breezeways and the enclosed and unenclosed porches.
   FLOOR AREAL USABLE. For the purpose of computing parking, that area used for
or intended to be used for the sale of merchandise or services, or for use to
serve patrons, clients or customers. Such floor area which is used or intended
to be used principally for the storage or processing of merchandise, hallways
or for utilities or sanitary facilities, shall be excluded from this
computation of USABLE FLOOR AREA. Measurement of usable floor area shall be the
sum of the horizontal area of the several floors of the building, measured from
the interior faces of the exterior walls. (See
Appendix A, Illustration 5.)
   GARAGE; PRIVATE. An accessory building or portion of a main building
designed or used solely for the storage of motor driven vehicles, boats and
similar vehicles owned and used by occupants of the building to which it is
accessory.
   GARAGE; SERVICE. Any premises used for the storage or care of motorized
driven vehicles, or where any such vehicles are equipped for operation,
repaired or kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. A place for the dispensing, sale or offering for
sale motor fuels directly to users of motor vehicles, together with the sale of
minor accessories and services for motor vehicles, but not including automobile
repair.
   GRADE. The ground elevation established for the purpose of regulating the
number of stories and the height of buildings. The building grade shall be the
level of the ground adjacent to the walls of the building if the finished GRADE
is level. If the ground is not entirely level, the GRADE shall be determined by
averaging the elevation of the ground for each face of the building.
   GROUP CARE HOME FOR CHILDREN. A child care facility which provides care for
no more than eight children in a residential dwelling under 24-hour supervision
or care placed by and under the supervision of a licensed child welfare agency
with the residential dwelling being owned or rented and staffed and maintained
or otherwise operated by the agency and licensed by the state for the
developmentally disabled under the Child Care Act of 1969, as amended from time
to time.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or profession customarily carried on by an
occupant of a dwelling unit as a secondary use which is clearly subservient to
the use for residential purposes.
   HOTEL. A building or part of a building, with a common entrance or
entrances, in which the dwelling units or rooming units are used primarily for
transient occupancy, and in which one or more of the following services are
offered: maid service; furnishing of linen; telephone; secretarial or desk
service; and bellboy service. A HOTEL may include a restaurant or cocktail
lounge, public halls, ballrooms or meeting rooms.
   JUNK YARD. An area where waste, used material or secondhand materials are
bought and sold, exchanged, stored, bailed, packed, disassembled or handled,
including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber
tires and bottles. A JUNK YARD includes automobile wrecking yards and includes
any open area of more than 200 square feet for storage, keeping or abandonment
of junk.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which three or more dogs, cats or other
household pets are either permanently or temporarily boarded for remuneration.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space on the same lot with a building, or group
of buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading
and unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. A general term used to describe a parcel of land. The context in which
the term is used dictates the precise meaning. More precise definitions follow.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A subdivision lot where the interior angle of two
adjacent sides at the intersection of two streets is less than 135 degrees. A
lot abutting upon a curved street or streets shall be considered a corner lot
for the purposes of the chapter if the are is of less radius than 150 feet and
the tangents to the curve, at the two points where the lot lines meet the
curve, or the straight line extended, form an interior angle of less than 135
degrees. (See
Appendix A, Illustration 6.)
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. Any subdivision lot other than a corner lot. (See
Appendix A, Illustration 6.)
      (3)   SUBDIVISION LOT. A parcel of land designated on a subdivision plat
and defined by distance and bearings tied to section and township monument
records.
      (4)   THROUGH LOT. Any interior lot having frontage on two, more or less,
parallel streets as distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a row of
double frontage lots, all yards of said lots adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage and front yard setback shall be provided as required. (See
Appendix A, Illustration 6.)
   LOT OF RECORD. A portion of land legally considered to be a distinct parcel
owned by a public body or private entity, as evidenced by the issuance of a
parcel identification number (PIN) by the County Supervisor of Assessments. A
LOT OF RECORD may consist of a portion of a subdivision lot or multiple
subdivision lots as shown on a subdivision plat. For purposes of this chapter,
the parcel identified by the PIN shall be considered a LOT. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in the event a parcel is bisected by a township line, two separate
PINs are issued for taxation purposes even though the parcel is owned by a
single entity. In this unique situation, the LOT OF RECORD shall have two
separate PINs but, shall still be considered one LOT.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of the lot.
   LOT COVERAGE. The part or percent of the lot occupied by buildings and/or
structures including accessory buildings and structures excluding driveways,
walks and paved patios.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lines,
measured along the median between the side lot lines.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot, as defined herein.
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. In the case of an interior lot, is that line
separating said lot from the street. In the case of a through lot, is that line
separating said lot from either street.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line opposite the front lot line. In the
case of a lot pointed at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be an imaginary line
parallel to the front lot line, not less than ten feet long lying farthest from
the front lot line and wholly within the lot.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot line other than the front lot line or rear
lot line. A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is a side street lot
line. A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is an INTERIOR
SIDE LOT LINE.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured
between the two points where the front setback line intersects the side lot
lines.
   MAILBOX. A receptacle installed for the purpose of receiving mail delivered
by the United States Postal Service.
   MAIN BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot
upon which it is situated.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. An arterial street which is intended to serve as a large
volume traffic-way for both the immediate municipal area and the region beyond.
   MASTER PLAN. The comprehensive community plan including graphic and written
proposals indicating the general location for streets, parks, schools, public
buildings and all physical development of the village, and includes any unit or
part of such plan, and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof. Such PLAN
may or may not be adopted by the Village Board.
   MEZZANINE. An intermediate floor in any story occupying not more than one
third of the floor area of such story. (See
Appendix A, Illustration 1.)
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle designed or constructed to permit its being used as
a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and constructed in such a
manner as will permit occupancy thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one
or more persons.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located.
   MODEL HOME. A new, single-family residence, not occupied as such, built by a
person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of building new homes, and
used or intended for use, for display purposes to be shown to prospective
customers.
   MOTEL. A series of attached, semi-detached or detached rental units
containing a bedroom, bathroom and closet space. Units shall provide overnight
lodging and are offered to the public for compensation and shall cater
primarily to the public traveling by motor vehicle.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Tremont, Illinois.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or portion thereof lawfully existing at
the effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and that does not
conform to the provisions of the chapter in the district in which it is
located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and that does not
conform to the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NURSERY; PLANT MATERIALS. A space, building or structure, or combination
thereof, for the storage of live trees, shrubs or plants offered for retail
sale on the premises including products used for gardening or landscaping. The
definition of NURSERY within the meaning of this chapter does not include any
space, building or structure used for the sale of fruits, vegetables or
Christmas trees.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. A daytime facility which has as its main objective a
development program for preschool children and whose staff meets the
educational requirements established by state.
   OFF-STREET PARKING LOT. A facility providing vehicular parking spaces along
with adequate drives and aisles for maneuvering, to provide access for entrance
and exit for the parking of more than three vehicles.
   OPEN FRONT STORE. A business establishment so developed that a service to
the patron may be extended beyond the walls of the structure, not requiring the
patron to enter the structure. The term OPEN FRONT STORE shall not include
automobile repair service stations.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of definite length and width, said area shall be
exclusive of drives, aisles or entrances giving access thereto, and shall be
fully accessible for the parking of permitted vehicles.
   PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT (PRD).
      (1)   A plan for a specific parcel of land or several contiguous parcels
of land, located to permit development of a planned residential unit and
supporting recreational and open space amenities.
      (2)   A PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT may include both attached and
detached dwelling units (single-family, multiple-family, townhouses and the
like), as well as all typical accessory uses associated with residential uses,
planned and designed in such a manner as to preserve and protect the character
of abutting land, as well as protecting uses within the PRD by preserving as
much natural vegetation and terrain as possible.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign and sign structure which is designed to facilitate the
movement of the sign from one lot of record to another. The SIGN may or may not
have wheels, changeable lettering and/or hitches for towing.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use to which the premises are devoted and the
principal purpose for which the premises exist.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A person, firm, corporation, village department, board or
commission duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under federal, state or
village regulations to the public. PUBLIC UTILITY includes gas, steam,
electricity, sewage conveyance and treatment, stormwater conveyance,
communication, transportation or water conveyance and treatment.
   ROOM. For the purpose of determining lot area requirements and density in a
multiple-family district, a ROOM is a living room, dining room or bedroom,
equal to at least 80 square feet in area. A ROOM shall not include the area in
kitchen, sanitary facilities, utility provisions, corridors, hallways and
storage. Plans presented showing one, two or three-bedroom units and including
a den, library or other extra rooms count such extra ROOMS as a bedroom for the
purpose of computing density.
   SATELLITE RECEPTION AREA. A dish type antenna for the reception of
communication or other signals from orbiting satellites.
   SETBACK. The distance required to obtain minimum front, side or rear yard
open space provisions of this chapter.
   SIGN. The use of any words, numerals, figures, devices, designs or
trademarks by which anything is made known such as are used to show an
individual, firm, profession or business, and are visible to the public.
      (1)   ACCESSORY SIGN. A sign which is accessory to the principal use of
the premises.
      (2)   NONACCESSORY SIGN. A sign which is not accessory to the principal
use of the premises.
   STORY.
      (1)   The part of a building, except a mezzanine as defined herein,
included between the surface of one floor and the surface of the next floor,
or, if there is no floor above, then the ceiling next above. A basement shall
not be counted as a STORY. (See
Appendix A, Illustration 2.)
      (2)   STORY; HALF. An uppermost story lying under a sloping roof having
an area of at least 200 square feet with a clear height of seven feet six
inches. For the purposes of this chapter, the usable floor area is only that
area having at least four feet of clear height between floor and ceiling.
   STREET. A publicly dedicated right-of-way, other than an alley, which
affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground.
   TELEVISION RECEPTION TOWER. A free-standing structure on which a television
reception device, other than a satellite reception antenna, is mounted. This
shall not include house-top television antenna.
   TEMPORARY USE OF BUILDINGS. A use permitted by the Zoning Board to exist
during a specified period of time.
   USE. The principal purpose for which land or a building is arranged,
designed or intended, or for which land or a building is or may be occupied.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the literal provisions of the zoning ordinance
codified herein granted when strict enforcement of the zoning ordinance would
cause undue hardship owing to circumstances unique to the individual property
on which the variance is granted. The crucial points of VARIANCE are undue
hardship, unique circumstances and applying to property. A VARIANCE is not an
exception.
   WALL; OBSCURING. A structure of definite height and location to serve as an
obscuring screen in carrying out the requirement of this chapter.
   YARDS. The open spaces on the same lot with a main building unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except as otherwise provided in this
chapter and as defined herein:
      (1)   FRONT YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line
and the nearest point of the main building.
      (2)   REAR YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the nearest point of the main building. In the case of a corner lot, the REAR
YARD may be opposite either street frontage.
      (3)   SIDE YARD. An open space between a main building and the side lot
line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard, the width of which is the
horizontal distance from the nearest point on the side lot line to the nearest
point of the main building. (See
Appendix A, Illustration 7.)
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.003 AMENDMENTS TO ZONING ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The Village Board may from time to time amend, supplement or change by
ordinance the boundaries of districts or regulations herein established. Any
amendment, supplement or change shall first be submitted to the Zoning Board
for its recommendation and report.
   (B)   No such ordinance shall be adopted until after a duly advertised
public hearing is held by the Zoning Board, as prescribed by statute. Within a
reasonable time after the hearing, the Zoning Board shall make a report to the
Village Board.
   (C)   The Village Board shall not be required to take action for the conduct
of a hearing on a petition by property owners to amend, supplement or change
the boundaries of districts or regulations herein established or to reclassify
any property, but whenever the owners of 50% or more of the street frontage in
any block shall present to the Village Board a petition duly signed and
acknowledged requesting an amendment, supplement, change, modification or
repeal of the regulations prescribed for the zoning maps, including the
district or specified part thereof, it shall be the duty of the Village Board
to refer the petition to the Zoning Board, to hold a hearing thereon as
provided by statute.
   (D)   (1)   Before any action shall be taken as provided in this subchapter,
the party or parties petitioning for a change shall deposit with the Village
Treasurer the zoning district amendment fee.
      (2)   Under no condition shall the sum, or any part thereof, be refunded
for failure of the amendment to be enacted into law. The amount of said fee is
established by resolution of the Village Board and shall cover the cost of the
amendment procedure.
   (E)   After any application for rezoning of any parcel or tract of land
within the village has been denied by the Zoning Board and/or the Village
Board, no new application or petition for a rezoning of the same parcel or
tract, seeking the same use as that denied in the previous application, shall
be considered within 18 months after the denial unless the new application or
petition clearly indicates a change in circumstance, condition or ownership.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.004 REPEAL OF PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The zoning ordinance heretofore adopted by the village on May 3, 2004,
being known as Ord. 04-109, together with all amendments thereto, are hereby
repealed.
   (B)   The repeal of the above ordinance and its amendments does not affect
or impair any act done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or
acquired or liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior to the
time enforced, prosecuted or inflicted.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.005 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, morals, safety, comfort, convenience or general welfare. It is not
intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way to impair or
interfere with any existing provision or law or ordinance other than the above-
described zoning ordinance, or with any rules, regulations or permits
previously adopted or issued or which shall be adopted or issued pursuant to
the law relating to the use of buildings or premises; provided, however, that
where this chapter imposes a greater restriction than is required by existing
ordinances or by rules, regulations or permits, the provisions of this chapter
shall control.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.006 VALIDITY.
   Should any article, section, division or provision of this chapter be
decided by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole, or any part thereof, other
than the part so decided to be unconstitutional or invalid. This chapter is
enacted pursuant to § 6a of Article VII of the Constitution of the State, and
all applicable provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code and any limitation in
the Illinois Municipal Code in conflict with this chapter shall not apply to
this chapter, pursuant to § 6a of Article VII of the Constitution of the State.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.007 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
nuisance and such failure to comply shall be enforceable as set forth in §
97.01 et seq.,
Chapter 97 of the Village of Tremont Code of Ordinances, 1995. Any person, firm
or corporation, or anyone acting on behalf of that person, firm or corporation
who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this zoning code shall be
fined according to the provisions of §
10.99. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 153.020 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   The village has established the following districts:
   (A)   Residential districts, being:
      (1)   R-1 and R-1a: Single-Family Residential District;
      (2)   R-2 and R-2a: Two-Family Residential District; and
      (3)   R-3: Multiple-Family Residential District.
   (B)   Non-residential districts, being:
      (1)   OS: Office District;
      (2)   B-1: Central Business District;
      (3)   B-2: General Business District;
      (4)   I-1: Light Industrial District; and
      (5)   I-2: General Industrial District.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.021 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on the
Official Zoning Map of the village, which accompanies this chapter as
Appendix B, and which map with all notations, references and other information
shown thereon shall be as much a part of this chapter as if fully described
herein.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.022 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES INTERPRETED.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines;
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lines;
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following village limits shall
be construed as following village limits;
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (C) above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by
the scale of the map.
   (E)   Where physical or natural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (A) through (D) above, the Zoning Board shall
interpret the district boundaries; and
   (F)   Insofar as some or all the various districts may be indicated on the
Zoning Map by patterns which, for the sake of map clarity, do not cover public
rights-of-way, it is intended that such district boundaries do extend to the
center of any public right-of-way.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.023 ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   Whenever any area is annexed to the village the following condition will
apply: Land that is zoned previous to annexation shall be classified as being
in whichever district of this chapter most closely conforms with the zoning
that existed prior to annexation, such classification to be recommended by the
Zoning Board to the Village Board and the Village Board shall approve the same
by resolution.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.024 ZONING OF VACATED AREAS.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public way, within the village shall be
vacated, such street, alley or other public way or portion thereof, shall
automatically be classified in the same zoning district as the property to
which it attaches. In those instances where a street, alley or other public way
serves as a zoning district boundary and is vacated, the center line of such
vacated street, alley or public way shall be considered the zoning district
boundary.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.025 MAIN STRUCTURES AND USES.
   In no case other than in planned developments shall there be more than one
main or principal structure, or main or principal use in one lot or other tract
of land.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.026 DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS.
   All buildings and uses in any district shall be subject to the provisions of
§§
153.040,
153.190 through
153.209, and
153.220 through
153.230
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
GENERAL LIMITATIONS
§ 153.040 INTENT.
   The following are general limitations and requirements that apply to all
zoning districts of the village.
   (A)   All buildings must include a main (front) entrance facing a village
street whose address is on that village street.
   (B)   Wood foundations built below grade are not allowed.
   (C)   Mobile homes or trailers are not allowed to occupy property or
driveways in any zoning district other than a designated storage facility in
the B-2 District. Such vehicles may be temporarily parked on driveways for
loading and unloading.
   (D)   All buildings to be used as a dwelling shall be constructed on a
permanent foundation. Manufactured homes built on a permanent chassis for
transportation purposes are not allowed in any zoning district.
   (E)   Kennels for boarding or breeding animals are not allowed in
residential districts.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
R-1, R-1A SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.055 INTENT.
   (A)   The R-1 and R-1a Districts are single-family residential districts
designed to be the most restrictive of the residential districts. The R-
1 District is intended to provide predominately low density, one-family
detached dwellings.
   (B)   The R-1a District is intended to provide one-family detached dwellings
in the older subdivisions of the village that were platted before minimum lot
size and building setbacks were established. The older subdivisions contain
smaller lots creating a denser residential environment.
   (C)   The distinction between R-1 and R-1a is established by the subdivision
plat date. Subdivisions platted after 1988, in general, comply with the
requirements of the R-1 District.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.056 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   In a single-family residential district, no building or land shall be used,
and no building shall be erected except for one or more of the following
specified uses unless otherwise provided in this chapter:
   (A)   One-family detached dwellings with a main (front) entrance facing a
village street whose address is on that village street;
   (B)   Municipal buildings and uses necessary to service adjacent areas,
publicly owned and operated libraries, parks, parkways and recreational
facilities;
   (C)   Cemeteries;
   (D)   Accessory buildings and uses, customarily incident to any of the above
uses.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018; Ord. 22-119, passed 12-5-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.057 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted, subject to the conditions hereinafter
imposed for each use and subject to the review and approval of the site plan
and the use by the Village Board after a hearing and recommendation is received
from the Zoning Board for each use:
   (A)   Churches and other facilities normally incidental thereto, subject to
the following conditions:
      (1)   Buildings of greater than the maximum height allowed in §
153.177 may be allowed provided front, side and rear yards are increased above
the minimum required yards by one foot for each foot of building height that
exceeds the maximum height allowed; and
      (2)   All access to the site shall be in accordance with §
153.208.
   (B)   Utility and public service buildings and uses (without storage yards)
when operating requirements necessitate the locating of said buildings within
the district to serve the immediate vicinity;
   (C)   Daycare homes, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Such facility shall have received a state license to operate prior
to seeking a special use permit under this chapter;
      (2)   Not less than 2,500 square feet of outdoor play area shall be
provided on the site;
      (3)   Parking shall be provided on the property to allow for direct drop-
off and pick-up of children without requiring children to cross public streets;
and
      (4)   Such daycare home shall also comply with any other conditions for
operation that may be recommended by the Zoning Board and approved by the
Village Board.
   (D)   Nursery schools (preschools) and daycare centers (not including
dormitories); providing the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The proposed site for any of the uses permitted herein which would
attract persons from or are intended to serve areas beyond the immediate
neighborhood, shall have at least one property line abutting a major
thoroughfare or secondary thoroughfare, and the site shall be so planned as to
provide all access in accordance with § 153.208;
      (2)   Front, side and rear yards shall be at least 80 feet wide, and
shall be landscaped in trees, shrubs, and grass. All such landscaping shall be
maintained in a healthy condition. There shall be no parking or structures
permitted in these yards, except required entrance drives and those walls used
to obscure the use from abutting residential districts;
      (3)   Off-street parking shall be provided to accommodate not less than
half of the member families and/or individual members. The Zoning Board may
modify the off-street parking requirements in those instances wherein it is
specifically determined that the users will originate from the immediately
adjacent areas, and will therefore be pedestrian. Prior to the issuance of a
building permit or zoning compliance certificate, by-laws of the organization
shall be provided to establish the membership involved for computing the off-
street parking requirements. In those cases, wherein the proposed use or
organization does not have by-laws or formal membership, the off-street parking
requirement shall be determined by the Zoning Board based on usage; and
      (4)   Whenever a swimming pool is constructed under this chapter, said
pool area shall be provided with a protective fence six feet in height, and
entry shall be provided by means of a controlled gate.
   (E)   Private pools shall be permitted as an accessory use provided they
meet the requirements of
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances;
   (F)   Funeral homes subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Signs, when lighted, shall be shielded from abutting residences.;
      (2)   Freestanding signs shall not exceed 20 square feet in area;
      (3)   All yard setback requirements for residences in the district in
which such use is located shall be complied with;
      (4)   Off-street parking as required in §
153.194 shall be provided; and
      (5)   Service areas shall be screened from abutting residences by means
of wall, fences or plantings.
   (G)   Boarding and renting of rooms shall be permitted, both subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   This use shall be considered as an accessory use; board or lodging
shall not be furnished to more than five persons in addition to the family;
      (2)   In the case of renting rooms, such convenience shall not be
furnished unless there shall be provided at least 70 square feet of floor area
per guest in that part of the building directly occupied by such guest for
rooming purposes; and
      (3)   Boarding and the renting of rooms shall not include the operating
of what is normally termed a restaurant or similar use where meals are served
to transient guests. Board shall not be provided to other than those rooming in
the residence.
   (H)   Model homes, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   No more than one advertising sign may be placed on the premises
upon which a model home is located, and such sign may not exceed nine square
feet in surface size and may not be illuminated;
      (2)   There shall be no exterior lighting on any premises occupied by a
model home, other than yard lights and lights around exterior doors, of the
type normally found on a single-family residence. The use of spotlights is
prohibited;
      (3)   In considering the issuance of a special use for a model home, the
following factors may be considered:
         (a)   The general character of the area in which the model home will
be located;
         (b)   The proximity of the model home to non-single-family zones;
         (c)   The proximity of the model home to major thoroughfares; and/or
         (d)   The volume of vehicular traffic reasonably anticipated to be
generated by such special use which would be more than the normal volume of
vehicular traffic generated by a single-family use.
      (4)   A special use for a model home may:
         (a)   Restrict the duration of the special use, and in no event shall
the duration exceed 12 months;
         (b)   Restrict the days of the week on which the model home may be
kept open for display purposes. Such a restriction shall not preclude the owner
from showing the home at any time by appointment;
         (c)   Restrict the hours of the day during which the model home may be
kept open for display purposes. Different hours may be prescribed for different
days of the week; and/or
         (d)   Place such additional restrictions on the special use as are
appropriate under the circumstances.
      (5)   No special use for a model home may be allowed within one quarter
of a mile of any other model home special use; however, this division (K)(4)(e)
shall not apply to any special use granted for a model home which was in
existence prior to the effective date of this chapter; and
      (6)   (a)   The existence of a model home in a new subdivision shall not
be subject to the provisions of this section for a period of two years after
the subdivision wherein it is located has been approved and accepted by the
village.
         (b)   A model home in a new subdivision may qualify as a special use
after the expiration of the initial two-year period upon compliance with the
terms and provisions hereof.
   (I)   Home occupations shall only be permitted in the R-1 and R-2 Districts,
subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Such special use shall only be secondary to the principal use of
the lot and buildings;
      (2)   No tangible articles shall be sold or offered for sale on the
premises except such as is produced on the premises or is provided incidental
to the service or profession conducted on the premises;
      (3)   There shall be no exterior storage of materials or equipment, and
no materials or equipment shall be used in connection with the home occupation
except such materials or equipment as may reasonably be used within the living
area of a dwelling with due regard to the public health, safety and welfare;
      (4)   No heat, glare, noise, vibration, noxious or toxic fumes, odors,
vapors, gases or matter shall be produced at any time by any home occupation
which are readily detectable without the use of instruments at any point on the
boundaries of the premises;
      (5)   There shall be no exterior indications of the home occupation;
      (6)   Except for members of the family residing on the premises, there
shall be no more than one employee; and
      (7)   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided as follows: In addition
to the off-street parking spaces required by this chapter, two additional
parking spaces for customers and one additional parking space for any non-
family employee employed on the premises shall be required.
   (J)   Municipal uses, such as office, equipment storage yards, outdoor
storage and related uses.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018; Ord. 22-119, passed 12-5-2022; Ord. 24-114,
passed 9-3-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.058 SIZE AND DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following table provides minimum criteria for the issuance of building
permits within the single- family residential zoning districts of the village.
Criteria Residential Zoning District
         R-1a (Pre-1998) R-1 (Post-1988)
         Criteria Notes  Criteria Notes
Criteria                        Residential Zoning District
                                R-1a (Pre-1998) R-1 (Post-1988)
                                Criteria Notes  Criteria Notes
Lot size (square feet)          4,5000          10,500
Maximum floor area ratio
Maximum height of structure
 Height above grade            25              25
 Stories above grade           2               2
Maximum percent of lot coverage 45%             35%
Minimum width (feet)                            85
Minimum yard setback
 Front yard                    15       a      25       a
 Rear                          25       c      35       c
 Side yard - at least one      5        a, b   5        a, b
 Side yard - total of both     10       a, b   15       a, b
 
   (A)   Lots abutting more than one public street shall maintain the minimum
front and side yard setback for yards abutting a public street as shown on
Illustration 8 in Appendix A.
   (B)    Buildings with doors facing side yards shall provide a side yard
setback not less than double the minimum value.
   (C)    One-half the width of alleys at the rear of the lot may be considered
in computing rear yard setbacks.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.059 BUILDING LIMITATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following limitations shall govern the size of detached buildings
on a residential property.
      (1)   If a residence does not include an attached garage, a detached
garage may be constructed, if the footprint of the structure does not exceed
720 square feet and the overall height of the structure does not exceed 16
feet. Alternatively, the height may exceed 16 feet if the side walls of the
structure are not more than nine feet in height and the pitch of the garage
roof matches the pitch of the residence structure. The detached garage shall
not be considered an accessory structure in this case.
      (2)   Any garage or accessory structure built upon a residential property
must have exterior finishing similar to the exterior finishing of the residence
or other homes in the neighborhood. Vertical ribbed metal siding and corrugated
metal siding are not allowed.
   (B)   Should a single-family residential district be established bordering
an existing R-3, business or office district, the developers of the single-
family property shall provide:
      (1)   An obscuring wall constructed along property lines. The wall shall
be not less than 54 inches tall; or
      (2)   In lieu of a wall, a 54-inch tall chain link fence and ten-foot-
wide greenbelt in accordance with §
153.199 may be provided along residential district borders.
   (C)   Should a single-family residential district be established bordering
an existing industrial district, the developers of the residential district
shall provide:
      (1)   An obscuring wall constructed along property lines. Such a wall
shall not be less than 72 inches in height and shall be in accordance with §
153.204; or
      (2)   In lieu of a wall, a 72-inch tall chain link fence and a 20-foot
wide greenbelt may be provided along industrial district borders. The heavily
planted greenbelt shall be in accordance with §
153.199.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
R-2, R-2A TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.070 INTENT.
   (A)   The R-2 and R-2a Districts are intended to allow for higher density
residential housing than allowed in the R-1 and R-1a Districts. One-family and
two-family residential buildings are allowed. The districts are intended to
transition between residential and commercial, office, thoroughfares or other
uses which would affect residential character. In general, the distinction
between R-2 and R-2a is established by the subdivision plat date. Subdivisions
platted before the 1988 Zoning Ordinance was adopted consist of smaller lots
and more dense development. Subdivisions platted after 1988, in general, comply
with the requirements of the R-2 District.
   (B)   The R-2a District is intended to apply to the oldest two-family
residential portions of the village. The R-2 District applies to the two-family
portions of those subdivisions platted after the 1988 Zoning Ordinance was
adopted.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.071 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   No building shall be erected or modified, and no land shall be used except
for one of the following specified uses unless otherwise provided in this
chapter:
   (A)   All principal uses permitted in the R-1 and R-1a Districts; and
   (B)   Two-family dwelling constructed as a single building with no common
interior spaces serving two independent living spaces and separate utility
service connections.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.072 SPECIAL USES.
   Special uses, as listed for R-1 and R-1a Districts, may be permitted subject
to the conditions imposed for each use and subject to the review and approval
of the site plan and the use by the Village Board after a hearing and
recommendation is received from the Zoning Board for each use.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.073 SIZE AND DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following table provides minimum criteria for the issuance of building
permits within the two- family residential zoning districts of the village.
Criteria Residential Zoning District
         R-2a (Pre-1998) R-2 (Post-1988)
         Criteria Notes  Criteria Notes
Criteria                        Residential Zoning District
                                R-2a (Pre-1998)  R-2 (Post-1988)
                                Criteria Notes   Criteria Notes
Lot size (square feet)          5,000            10,500
Maximum floor area ratio        0.65
Maximum height of structure
 Height above grade            25               25
 Stories above grade           2                2
Maximum percent of lot coverage 45%              35%
Minimum width (feet)                     e, f    85       e, f
Minimum yard setback
 Front yard                    15       a, d    25       a, d
 Rear                          25       c, d    35       c, d
 Side yard - at least one      5        a, b, d 5        a, b, d
 Side yard - total of both     10       a, b, d 15       a, b, d
 
   (A)   Lots abutting more than one public street shall maintain the minimum
front and side yard setback for yards abutting a public street as shown on
Illustration 8 in
Appendix A.
   (B)   Buildings with doors facing side yards shall provide a side yard
setback not less than double the minimum value.
   (C)   One-half the width of alleys at the rear of the lot may be considered
in computing rear yard setbacks.
   (D)   For all permitted uses and approved special uses, other than single-
family residential, the setback shall be the greater of the building height or
the minimum yard setback.
   (E)   Two-family dwellings that provide living space for both units on the
ground floor shall have a minimum property width of 100 feet along a village
street whose address is on that street in both R-2a and R-2 Districts.
Exceptions to property width will be considered as a variance for corner lots
and through lots. Setback requirements shall be satisfied for R-2a and R-
2 Districts.
   (F)   Two-family dwellings that provide living space for one unit on the
ground floor and the second unit on a second floor may be constructed on
properties with property width less than 100 feet. No restrictions are imposed
on property width in the R-2a District for separate dwelling units on separate
floors. The minimum property width in the R-2 District is 85 feet for separate
dwelling units on separate floors. Setback requirements shall be satisfied for
R-2a and R-2 Districts.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.074 BUILDING LIMITATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Primary entrances facing side yards and rear yards are not permitted.
Through lots and corner lots with frontage on two village streets can
accommodate two-family dwellings with an entrance facing either street or both
streets. An alley is not a street.
   (B)   The following limitations shall govern the size of detached buildings
on a residential property.
      (1)   If a dwelling unit does not include an attached garage, a detached
garage may be constructed, if the footprint of the structure does not exceed
720 square feet and the overall height of the structure does not exceed 16
feet. Alternatively, the height may exceed 16 feet if the side walls of the
structure are not more than 9 feet in height and the pitch of the garage roof
matches the pitch of the residence structure. The detached garage shall not be
considered an accessory structure in this case.
      (2)   Any garage or accessory structure built upon a residential property
must have exterior finishing similar to the exterior finishing of the residence
or other homes in the neighborhood. Vertical ribbed metal siding and corrugated
metal siding are not allowed.
   (C)   Should a two-family residential district be established bordering an
existing R-3, business or office district, the developers of the two-family
residential property shall provide:
      (1)   An obscuring wall constructed along property lines. The wall shall
be not less than 54 inches tall; or
      (2)   In lieu of a wall, a 54-inch tall chain link fence and ten-foot-
wide greenbelt in accordance with §
153.199 may be provided along residential district borders.
   (D)   Should a two-family residential district be established bordering an
existing industrial district, the developers of the residential district shall
provide:
      (1)   An obscuring wall constructed along property lines. Such a wall
shall not be less than 72 inches in height and shall be in accordance with §
153.204; or
      (2)   In lieu of a wall, a 72-inch tall chain link fence and a 20-foot
wide greenbelt may be provided along industrial district borders. The heavily
planted greenbelt shall be in accordance with §
153.199.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.085 INTENT.
   (A)   The R-3 District is intended to allow for multiple-family dwelling
structures, and related uses, which will generally serve as zones of transition
between the non-residential districts and lower density residential districts.
   (B)   The multiple-family district serves the needs for the apartment type
of unit.
   (C)   The R-3 District is intended to provide sites in and near the central
business district for housing which will provide convenient living
accommodations for those residents of the village desiring a location near
employment, shopping and civic activities.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.086 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   No building shall be erected or modified, and no land shall be used except
for one of the following specified uses unless otherwise provided in this
chapter:
   (A)   All principal uses permitted in the R-1 and R-2 Districts;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings; and
   (C)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the
residential uses.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.087 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In the case of multiple dwelling developments, all site plans shall be
submitted to the Zoning Board for review and approval before issuance of a
building permit.
   (B)   Approval shall be contingent upon a finding that:
      (1)   The site plan shows that a proper relationship exists between local
streets and any proposed service roads, driveways and parking areas to
encourage pedestrian and vehicular traffic safety; and
      (2)   All the development features including the principal building or
buildings and any accessory buildings, or uses, open spaces and any service
roads, driveways and parking areas are so located and related to minimize the
possibility of adverse effects upon adjacent property, such as, but not limited
to, channeling excessive traffic onto local residential streets, lack of
adequate screening or buffering of parking or service areas, that would
interfere with police or fire equipment access.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.088 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted, subject to the conditions hereinafter
imposed for each use and subject to the review and approval of the site plan
and the use by the Village Board after a hearing and recommendation is received
from the Zoning Board for each use:
   (A)   General hospitals, with no maximum height restrictions, when the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   All such hospitals shall be developed only on sites consisting of
at least two acres in area;
      (2)   All access to the site shall be in accordance with §
153.208; and
      (3)   The minimum distance of any main or accessory building from
bounding lot lines shall be at least 50 feet or, the building height if the
height exceeds 50 feet, for front, rear and side yards.
   (B)   Housing for elderly, when the following conditions are met:
      (1)   All dwellings shall be at least 225 square feet per unit, not
including a kitchen and sanitary facilities;
      (2)   Total coverage of all buildings shall not exceed 25% of the total
site exclusive of any dedicated public right of way; and
      (3)   (a)   Service uses, such as a dry-cleaning pickup station, hair
care or similar use for the exclusive service to residents of the property may
be allowed within a building housing 50 or more residents.
         (b)   The service facility shall not serve the public and signs
advertising the service to the public shall not be allowed.
   (C)   Convalescent homes and residential care homes, when the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   Not less than 1,500 square feet of outdoor open space for each bed
shall be provided on the site. The outdoor open space shall provide landscape
settings, off-street parking, service drives, loading space, yard requirements
and accessory uses, but shall not include the area covered by buildings; and
      (2)   No building shall be closer than 40 feet to boundary lines.
   (D)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the above
permitted uses.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018; Ord. 22-119, passed 12-5-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.089 SIZE AND DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following table provides minimum criteria for the issuance of building
permits within the multiple-family zoning district of the village.
Criteria Residential Zoning District
         R-3
         Value Notes
Criteria                        Residential Zoning District
                                R-3
                                Value Notes
Lot size (square feet)
Maximum floor area ratio        0.5
Maximum height of structure
 Height above grade            35
 Stories above grade           3
Maximum percent of lot coverage 35%
Minimum width (feet)
Minimum yard setback                  a, c
 Front yard                    25
 Rear                          35    b
 Side yard - at least one      15
 Side yard - total of both     30
 
   (A)   Lots abutting more than one public street shall maintain the minimum
front and side yard setback for yards abutting a public street as shown on
Illustration 8 in Appendix A.
   (B)   One-half the width of alleys at the rear of the lot may be considered
in computing rear yard setbacks.
   (C)   All setbacks shall be the greater of the building height or the
minimum yard setback for all permitted uses and approved special uses, other
than single-family residential.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.090 BUILDING LIMITATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The total number of rooms shall not be more than the area of the
parcel, in square feet, divided by 1,400.
      (2)   The room count shall not include kitchen, dining and sanitary
facilities.
      (3)   A den, library or any other rooms shall be including in the room
density count.
   (B)   The following room assignments shall be used to determine the
permitted number of dwelling units per acre:
      (1)   Efficiency, one room;
      (2)   One bedroom: two rooms;
      (3)   Two bedroom: three rooms;
      (4)   Three bedroom: four rooms; and
      (5)   Four bedroom: five rooms.
   (B)   A property with multiple buildings shall provide the following minimum
spacing between buildings:
      (1)   One-story building: 30 feet minimum distance between buildings;
      (2)   Two-story building: 40 feet minimum distance between buildings; and
      (3)   Three-story building: 55 feet minimum distance between buildings.
   (C)   Should property be developed or re-developed within an R-3 district
bordering an existing single-family residential, two-family residential,
business or office district, the developers of the R-3 District shall provide:
      (1)   An obscuring wall constructed along property lines. The wall shall
be not less than 54 inches tall; or
      (2)   In lieu of a wall, a 54-inch tall chain link fence and ten-foot-
wide greenbelt in accordance with §
153.199 may be provided along residential district borders.
   (D)   Should property be developed or re-developed within an R-3 district
bordering an existing industrial district, the developers of the R-3 District
shall provide:
      (1)   An obscuring wall constructed along property lines. Such a wall
shall not be less than 72 inches in height and shall be in accordance with §
153.204; or
      (2)   In lieu of a wall, a 72-inch tall chain link fence and a 20-foot
wide greenbelt may be provided along industrial district borders. The heavily
planted greenbelt shall be in accordance with §
153.199.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
OS OFFICE DISTRICT
§ 153.105 INTENT.
   The OS-1 Office District is designed to accommodate uses such as offices,
banks and personal services which can serve as transitional areas between
residential and business districts and to provide a transition between major
thoroughfares and residential districts.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.106 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   In the Office District, no building or land shall be used, and no building
shall be erected for one or more of the following specified uses unless
otherwise provided in this subchapter:
   (A)   Office buildings for any of the following occupations: executive;
administrative; professional; accounting; writing; clerical; stenographic; and
drafting, subject to the limitations contain in §
153.088;
   (B)   Medical offices, including clinics;
   (C)   Banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations and similar uses;
drive-in facilities as an accessory use only;
   (D)   Personal service establishments including barber shops, beauty shops
and health salons;
   (E)   Churches and private clubs;
   (F)   Municipal office buildings and uses;
   (G)   Other uses like the above uses; and
   (H)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incident to the above-
permitted uses.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.107 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted, subject to the conditions hereinafter
imposed for each use and subject further to the review and approval of the site
plan and the uses by the Village Board after a hearing and recommendation is
received from the Zoning Board for each use:
   (A)   An accessory use customarily related to a principal use authorized by
this section, such as, but not limited to, a pharmacy or apothecary shop,
stores limited to corrective garments or bandages or optical service, may be
permitted;
   (B)   Mortuary establishments, when adequate assembly area is provided off-
street for vehicles to be used in funeral processions; provided further that
the assembly area shall be provided in addition to any required off-street
parking area. A caretaker’s residence may be provided within the main building
of mortuary establishments;
   (C)   Publicly-owned buildings, telephone exchange buildings and public
utility offices, but not including storage yards, transformer stations,
substations or gas regulator stations; and
   (D)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incident to the above uses.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.108 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No interior display shall be visible from the exterior of the
building;
   (B)   The outdoor storage of goods or material shall be prohibited; and
   (C)   Warehousing or indoor storage of goods or material, beyond that
normally incident to the above permitted uses, shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.109 SIZE AND DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following table provides minimum criteria for the issuance of building
permits within the office zoning districts of the village.
Criteria Office Zoning District
         OS
         Value Notes
Criteria                                          Office Zoning District
                                                  OS
                                                  Value  Notes
Lot size (square feet)                            10,500
Maximum height of structure
 Height above grade (feet)                       35
 Stories above grade                             2
Maximum percent of lot coverage                   35%
Minimum width (feet)                              65
Minimum yard setback                                     a, c
 Front yard                                      25
 Rear                                            25     b
 Side yard - at least one                        15
 Side yard - total of both                       30
Parking spaces per 250 square feet of floor space 1
 
   (A)   Lots abutting more than one public street shall maintain the minimum
front and side yard setback for yards abutting a public street as shown on
Illustration 8 in
Appendix A.
   (B)   One-half the width of alleys at the rear of the lot may be considered
in computing rear yard setbacks.
   (C)   All setbacks shall be the greater of the building height or the
minimum yard setback for all permitted uses and approved special uses, other
than single-family residential.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.110 BUILDING LIMITATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Should property be developed or re-developed within the Office District
bordering a residential district or Park District property, developers of the
Office District shall construct an obscuring wall along property lines
bordering residential districts and Park District property. The wall shall be
not less than 54 inches tall. In lieu of a wall, a 54-inch tall chain link
fence and ten-foot-wide greenbelt in accordance with §
153.199 may be provided along residential district borders. Should property be
developed or re-developed within the Office District bordering an existing
industrial district, the developers of the Office District property shall
provide an obscuring wall constructed along property lines. Such a wall shall
not be less than 72 inches in height and shall be in accordance with §
153.204. In lieu of a wall, a six-foot tall chain link fence and a 20-foot wide
greenbelt may be provided along industrial district borders. The heavily
planted greenbelt shall be in accordance with §
153.199.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
B-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 153.125 INTENT.
   The B-1 Central Business District is designed to provide for office
buildings and the great variety of retail stores and related activities which
occupy the prime retail frontage by serving the commerce, convenience and
service needs of the entire village and developments beyond the village limits.
The District regulations are designed to promote convenient pedestrian shopping
and the stability of retail development by encouraging a continuous retail
frontage and by limiting automotive related services and non-retail uses which
tend to break up such continuity.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.126 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   In the Central Business District, no building or land shall be used, and no
building shall be erected except for one or more of the following specified
uses, unless otherwise provided in this chapter:
   (A)   Any generally recognized retail business which supplies commodities on
the premises within a completely enclosed building, such as, but not limited
to, foods, drugs, liquor, furniture, clothing, dry goods or hardware;
   (B)   Office buildings for any of the following occupations: executive;
administrative; professional; accounting; writing; clerical; stenographic;
drafting and sales subject to the limitations contained in §
153.128;
   (C)   Any personal service, establishment which performs services on the
premises within a completely enclosed building, such as, but not limited to,
repair shops (watches, radios, televisions, shoes and the like), tailor shops,
beauty parlors, barber shops, interior decorators, photographers and dry
cleaners;
   (D)   Banks, credit unions and similar uses; drive-in facilities as an
accessory use only;
   (E)   Medical offices, including clinics;
   (F)   Professional services including the following: offices of doctors;
lawyers; dentists; insurance; stock brokerage; and similar or allied
professions;
   (G)   Post office and similar government office buildings, serving persons
living in the community;
   (H)   Churches and private clubs;
   (I)   Municipal office buildings and uses;
   (J)   Theaters, when completely enclosed;
   (K)   Restaurants and taverns where the patrons are served while seated
within the building occupied by such establishment, and wherein the
establishment does not extend as an integral part of, or accessory thereto, any
service of a drive-in or open-front store;
   (L)   Offices and showrooms of plumbers, electricians, decorators or similar
trades. The ground floor premises facing upon, and visible from any abutting
street shall be used only for entrances, offices or display. All storage of
materials on any land shall be within the confines of the building or part
thereof occupied by said establishment and shall be adequately screened from
abutting streets;
   (M)   Business schools or private schools operated for profit. Examples of
private schools permitted herein include, but are not limited to, the
following: dance studios; music and voice schools; and art studios;
   (N)   Newspaper offices and printing plants;
   (O)   Warehouse and storage facilities when incident to and physically
connected with any principal use permitted; provided that such facility be
within the confines of the building or part thereof occupied by the
establishment;
   (P)   Public utility buildings, telephone exchange buildings, electric
transformer stations, substations and similar uses only when enclosed within a
building or completely enclosed by an obscuring wall;
   (Q)   Other uses which are like the above and subject to the following
restrictions:
      (1)   All business establishments shall be retail or service
establishments dealing directly with consumers;
      (2)   All business, servicing or processing, except for off-street
parking or loading, shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings;
and
      (3)   Storage of commodities shall be within buildings or shall be so
enclosed as not to be visible to the public from a street or thoroughfare.
   (R)   Accessory structures customarily incident to the above permitted uses.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.127 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted, subject to the conditions hereinafter
imposed for each use and subject further to the review and approval of the site
plan and the uses by the Village Board after a hearing and recommendation is
received from the Zoning Board for each use:
   (A)   An accessory use customarily related to a principal use authorized by
this section, such as, but not limited to, a pharmacy or apothecary shop,
stores limited to corrective garments or bandages or optical service, may be
permitted;
   (B)   Mortuary establishments, when adequate assembly area is provided off-
street for vehicles to be used in funeral processions, provided further that
such assembly area shall be provided in addition to any required off-street
parking area. A caretaker’s residence may be provided within the main building
of the mortuary establishment;
   (C)   The uses allowed and as controlled in R-3 Districts may be permitted
on those floors above the first story in accord with the dwelling unit density
requirements of the R-3 District. All height, setback, floor area ratio and
percentage of lot coverage requirements shall comply with the requirements of
the B-1 District; and
   (D)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incident to the above uses.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.128 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Continuous outdoor storage of goods or materials is prohibited.
Seasonal outdoor sales are allowed.
   (B)   Warehousing or indoor storage of goods or material, beyond that
normally incident to the above permitted uses, shall be prohibited.
   (C)   All business establishments shall be retail or service establishments
dealing directly with customers. All goods produced on the premises shall be
sold at retail on the premises where they are produced.
   (D)   All business, servicing or processing, except for off-street parking
or loading, shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.129 SIZE AND DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following table provides minimum criteria for the issuance of building
permits within the Central Business zoning districts of the village.
Criteria Central Business District
         B-1
         Value Notes
Criteria                                          Central Business District
                                                  B-1
                                                  Value  Notes
Lot size (square feet)                            10,500
Maximum height of structure
 Height above grade (feet)                       35
 Stories above grade                             2
Maximum percent of lot coverage                   35%
Minimum width (feet)                              65
Minimum yard setback                                     a, c
 Front yard                                      25
 Rear                                            25     b
 Side yard - at least one                        15
 Side yard - total of both                       30
Parking spaces per 250 square feet of floor space 1
 
   (A)   Buildings with doors facing side yards shall provide a side yard
setback not less than 15 feet.
   (B)   Side yards are not required along the interior lot lines of Central
Business and General Business subdivisions. The exterior side bordering a
residential district or public street shall maintain a side yard not less than
ten feet.
   (C)   One-half the width of alleys at the rear of the lot may be considered
in computing rear yard setbacks.
   (D)   Parking is permitted in the front yard pending approval by the Zoning
Board of the parking plan layout and points of access. The Zoning Board may
request recommendations from the Village Engineer pertaining to parking and
access prior to approval.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.130 BUILDING LIMITATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Should property be developed or re-developed within the B-1 District
bordering residential districts or Park District property, developers of the
business district shall construct an obscuring wall along property lines
bordering residential districts and Park District property. The wall shall be
not less than 54 inches tall.
   (B)   In lieu of a wall, a 54-inch tall chain link fence and ten-foot wide
greenbelt in accordance with §
153.199 may be provided along residential district borders.
   (C)   Should a property be developed or re-developed within the B-1 District
bordering an existing industrial district, the developers of the business
district property shall provide an obscuring wall constructed along property
lines. Such a wall shall not be less than 72 inches in height and shall be in
accordance with §
153.204.
   (D)   In lieu of a wall, a 72-inch tall chain link fence and a 20-foot wide
greenbelt may be provided along industrial district borders. The heavily
planted greenbelt shall be in accordance with §
153.199.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 153.145 INTENT.
   The B-2 General Business District is designed to provide sites for more
diversified business types which would often be incompatible with the
pedestrian movement in the General Business District.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.146 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   In the General Business District, no building or land shall be used, and no
building shall be erected except for one or more of the following specified
uses, unless otherwise provided in this chapter:
   (A)   Any retail business or service establishment permitted in the B-
1 District as principal uses permitted;
   (B)   New and used automobile sales or show-room;
   (C)   Private clubs or lodge halls;
   (D)   Government offices or other governmental uses, public utility offices,
exchanges, transformer stations, pump stations and service yards, but not
including outdoor storage;
   (E)   Clinics;
   (F)   Retail cold storage establishments;
   (G)   Self-service laundry and dry-cleaning establishments;
   (H)   Bowling alleys;
   (I)   Pool or billiard parlors or clubs;
   (J)   Warehousing and storage of materials or goods to be sold at retail or
wholesale; provided such storage is within a building or is enclosed as not to
be visible to the public from a street or thoroughfare;
   (K)   Hotels and motels; and
   (L)   Other uses which are like the above uses.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.147 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted subject to the conditions hereinafter
imposed for each use and subject further to the review and approval of the site
plan and the use by the Village Board after a hearing and recommendation is
received from the Zoning Board for each use:
   (A)   Outdoor sales space for exclusive sale of new or used automobiles,
house trailers or rental of trailers and/or automobiles, all subject to the
following;
      (1)    All driveway and parking areas shall be provided with an asphaltic
or concrete surface, and shall be graded and drained as to dispose of all
surface water accumulated within the area;
      (2)   Access to the outdoor sales area shall be at least 60 feet from the
intersection of any two streets;
      (3)   No major repair or major refinishing shall be done on the open lot;
and
      (4)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts.
   (B)   Business in the character of a drive-in or open-front store, subject
to the following conditions:
      (1)   A setback of at least 60 feet from the right-of-way line of any
existing or proposed street must be maintained;
      (2)   Access points shall be located at least 60 feet from the
intersection of any two streets;
      (3)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts;
and
      (4)   A five-foot high completely obscuring wall shall be provided when
abutting a residential district. The height of the wall shall be measured from
the surface of the ground. The wall shall further meet the requirements of §§
153.190 through
153.209.
   (C)   Veterinary hospitals or clinics; provided all activities are conducted
within a totally enclosed main building and provided further that all buildings
are set back at least 200 feet from abutting residential districts on the same
side of the street;
   (D)   Landscape business and/or tree and plant nursery for sale at retail or
wholesale;
   (E)   The uses allowed and as controlled in the R-3 District may be
permitted on those floors above the first story in accord with the dwelling
unit density requirements of the R-3 District. All height, setback, floor area
ratio and percent of lot coverage requirements shall comply with the
requirements of the B-1 District. In determining dwelling unit density, the
parcel area, including that area to be occupied by the principal use, may be
computed;
   (F)   Automotive repair business, such as muffler shops, shock absorber
replacement shops, tire stores, undercoating shops and minor engine repair
shops, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Access to such use shall be directly to a major or collector street
or shall be to a minor street which has direct access to an abutting major or
collector street;
      (2)   Access to and from such use shall not be cause for traffic to
utilize residential streets;
      (3)   Outdoor storage of parts or materials shall be prohibited;
      (4)   Vehicles awaiting repair shall not be allowed to be stored outside
the building for more than 14 days for each such vehicle awaiting repair;
      (5)   Areas for off-street parking required for customer use shall not be
utilized for the storage of vehicles awaiting repairs;
      (6)   All vehicle servicing or repair shall be conducted within a
building;
      (7)   Suitable containers shall be provided and utilized for the disposal
of used parts and such
containers shall be screened from public view;
      (8)   A four-foot, six-inch obscuring wall shall be provided and
maintained along property lines adjacent to or abutting a residential district;
and
      (9)   A site plan shall be submitted to the Zoning Board for its review
and approval prior to issuance of a building permit.
   (G)   Gasoline service stations for the sale of gasoline, oil and minor
accessories only, and where no repair work is done, other than incidental
service, but not including steam cleaning or undercoating, vehicle body repair,
painting, tire recapping, engine rebuilding, auto dismantling, upholstering,
auto glass work and such other activities whose external effect could adversely
extend beyond the property line;
      (1)   The curb cuts for access to a service station shall not be
permitted at such locations that will tend to create traffic hazards in the
streets immediately adjacent thereto. Entrances shall be no less than 25 feet
from a street intersection (measured from the road right-of-way) or from
adjacent residential districts;
      (2)   The minimum lot area shall be 15,000 square feet, and so arranged
that ample space is available for motor vehicles which are required to wait.
Gasoline service stations which are intended solely, for the sale of gasoline,
oil and minor accessories and having no facilities for repair or servicing of
automobiles may be permitted on lots of 10,000 square feet, subject to all
other provisions herein required;
   (H)   Inside public storage and/or self-storage facility; and
   (I)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incident to the above uses.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018; Ord. 24-118, passed 10-21-2024)
§ 153.148 SIZE AND DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following table provides minimum criteria for the issuance of building
permits within the General Business zoning districts of the village.
Criteria General Business District
         B-2
         Value Notes
Criteria                                          General Business District
                                                  B-2
                                                  Value       Notes
Lot size (square feet)
Maximum floor area ratio                          4.0
Maximum height of structure
 Height above grade (feet)                       120
 Stories above grade                             10
Maximum percent of lot coverage
Minimum width (feet)
Minimum yard setback
 Front yard                                      25
 Rear                                            10          c
 Side yard - at least one                        0, 10 or 15 a, b
 Side yard - total of both                       0 to 30     a, b
Parking spaces per 250 square feet of floor space             d
 
   (A)   Buildings with doors facing side yards shall provide a side yard
setback not less than 15 feet.
   (B)   Side yards are not required along the interior lot lines of Central
Business and General Business subdivisions. The exterior side bordering a
residential district or public street shall maintain a side yard not less than
ten feet.
   (C)   One-half the width of alleys at the rear of the lot may be considered
in computing rear setbacks.
   (D)   Parking is permitted in the front yard pending approval by the Zoning
Board of the parking plan layout and points of access. The Zoning Board may
request recommendations from the Village Engineer pertaining to parking and
access prior to approval.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.149 BUILDING LIMITATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A property with multiple buildings shall provide the following minimum
spacing between buildings:
      (1)   One-story building: 30 feet minimum distance between buildings;
      (2)   Two-story building: 40 feet minimum distance between buildings; and
      (3)   Three-story building: 55 feet minimum distance between buildings.
   (B)   Should property be developed or re-developed within the B-2 District
bordering residential districts or Park District property, developers of the
business district shall construct an obscuring wall along property lines
bordering residential districts and Park District property. The wall shall be
not less than 54 inches tall.
   (C)   In lieu of a wall, a 54-inch tall chain link fence and ten-foot-wide
greenbelt in accordance with §
153.199 may be provided along residential district borders.
   (D)   Should property be developed or re-developed within the B-2 District
bordering an existing industrial district, the developers of the business
district property shall provide an obscuring wall constructed along property
lines. Such a wall shall not be less than 72 inches in height and shall be in
accordance with §
153.204.
   (E)   In lieu of a wall, a 72-inch tall chain link fence and a 20-foot wide
greenbelt may be provided along industrial district borders. The heavily
planted greenbelt shall be in accordance with §
153.199.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.160 INTENT.
   (A)   The I-1 Light Industrial District is designed to primarily accommodate
wholesale activities, warehouses and industrial operations whose external,
physical effects are restricted to the area of the District and in no manner,
affect in a detrimental way, any of the surrounding districts. The I-1 District
is so structured as to permit, along with any specified uses, the
manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging, assembly and/or treatment of
finished or semi-finished products from previously prepared material.
   (B)   The general goals of this use district include, among other, the
following specific purposes:
      (1)   To provide sufficient space, in appropriate locations, to meet the
needs of the village’s expected future economy for all types of manufacturing
and related uses;
      (2)   To protect abutting residential districts by separating them from
manufacturing activities, and by prohibiting the use of such industrial areas
for new residential development;
      (3)   To promote manufacturing development which is free from danger of
fire, explosions, toxic and noxious matter, radiations and other hazards, and
from offensive noise, vibration, smoke, odor and other objectionable
influences; and
      (4)   To protect the most desirable use of land in accordance with a
well-considered plan, to protect the character and established pattern of
adjacent development, and in each area to conserve the value of land and
buildings and other structures, and to protect the village’s tax revenue.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.161 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   In the Light Industrial District, no building or land shall be used, and no
building shall be erected except for one or more of the following specified
uses unless otherwise provided in this chapter:
   (A)   Any use charged with the principal function of basic research, design
and pilot or experimental product development when conducted within a
completely enclosed building;
   (B)   Any of the following uses when the manufacturing, compounding or
processing is conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building:
      (1)   Warehousing and wholesale establishments and trucking facilities;
      (2)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
such products as, but not limited to, bakery goods, candy, cosmetics,
pharmaceuticals, toiletries, food products, hardware and cutlery, tool, die,
gauge and machine shops;
      (3)   The manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of articles
of merchandise from previously prepared materials: bone, canvas, cellophane,
cloth, cork, elastomers, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn,
leather, paper, plastics, rubber, precious or semiprecious metals or stones,
sheet metal, shell, textiles, tobacco, wax, wire, wood and yarns;
      (4)   The manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar ceramic
products using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas;
      (5)   The manufacture of musical instruments, toys, novelties and metal
or rubber stamps or other molded rubber products;
      (6)   The manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, electronic
instruments and devices, radios and phonographs;
      (7)   Laboratories (experimental, film or testing);
      (8)   Manufacturing and repair of electric or neon signs, light sheet
metal products, including heating and ventilating equipment, cornices, eaves
and the like;
      (9)   Central dry-cleaning plants or laundries provided that such plants
shall not deal directly with consumers at retail; and
      (10)   All public utilities, including buildings, accessary structures,
storage yards and other related uses.
   (C)   Warehouse, storage and transfer and electric and gas service buildings
and yards. Public utility buildings, telephone exchange buildings, electrical
transformer stations and substations, and gas regulator stations, water supply
and sewage disposal plants, water and gas tank holders and freight terminals;
   (D)   (1)   Manufacture of building products, storage facilities for
building materials, sand, gravel, stone, lumber, storage of contractor’s
equipment and supplies; provided, such is enclosed within a building or within
an obscuring wall or fence on those sides abutting all residential or business
districts, and on any yard abutting a public thoroughfare;
      (2)   In any I-1 district, the extent of such fence or wall may be
determined by the Zoning Board based on usage. Such fence or wall shall not be
less than five feet in height, and may, depending on land usage, be required to
be eight feet in height. A chain link type fence, with heavy evergreen
shrubbery inside of said fence, is considered to be an obscuring fence;
   (E)   Municipal uses such as water treatment plants, and reservoirs, sewage
treatment plants and all other municipal buildings and uses, including outdoor
storage;
   (F)   Commercial kennels;
   (G)   Greenhouses;
   (H)   Trade or industrial schools;
   (I)   Freestanding non-accessory signs; and
   (J)   Other uses of a similar and no more objectionable character to the
above uses.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.162 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted, subject to the conditions hereinafter
imposed for each use and subject further to the review and approval of the site
plan and the use by the Village Board after a hearing and recommendation is
received from the Zoning Board for each use:
   (A)   Auto, engine and body repair, and under-coating shops when completely
enclosed;
   (B)   Lumber and planing mills when completely enclosed and when located in
the interior of the district so that no property line shall form the exterior
boundary of the l-1 District;
   (C)   Metal plating, buffing and polishing, subject to appropriate measures
to control the type of process to prevent noxious results and/or nuisances;
   (D)   Retail uses which have an industrial character in terms of either
their outdoor storage requirements or activities (such as, but not limited to,
lumber yards, building materials outlets or agricultural implements) or serve
convenience needs of the Industrial District (such as, but not limited to,
eating and drinking establishments, banks, savings and loan associations,
credit unions, automobile service stations, motels or bowling alleys, trade or
industrial schools or industrial clinics);
   (E)   Short-term car storage for wrecked auto-mobiles where such storage is
for periods not to exceed six months and when no such storage is undertaken for
the wrecking or salvaging of auto- mobiles or parts thereof, all such storage
shall be completely fenced and shall be obscured from public view by a
completely obscuring wall or fence;
   (F)   Other uses of a similar character to the above uses; and
   (G)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident or any of the above
uses.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.163 SIZE AND DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following table provides minimum criteria for the issuance of building
permits within the Light Industrial zoning districts of the village.
Criteria Light Industrial District
         I-1
         Value Notes
Criteria                                          Light Industrial District
                                                  I-1
                                                  Value       Notes
Lot size (square feet)
Maximum floor area ratio
Maximum height of structure
 Height above grade (feet)
 Stories above grade
Maximum percent of lot coverage
Minimum width (feet)
Minimum yard setback
 Front yard                                      25
 Rear                                            10          c
 Side yard - at least one                        0, 10 or 15 a, b
 Side yard - total of both                       0 to 30     a, b
Parking spaces per 250 square feet of floor space             d
 
   (A)   Buildings with doors facing side yards shall provide a side yard
setback not less than 15 feet.
   (B)   Side yards are not required along the interior lot lines of Central
Business and General Business subdivisions. The exterior side bordering a
residential district or public street shall maintain a side yard not less than
ten feet.
   (C)   One-half the width of alleys at the rear of the lot may be considered
in computing rear yard setbacks.
   (D)   Parking is permitted in the front yard pending approval by the Zoning
Board of the parking plan layout and points of access. The Zoning Board may
request recommendations from the Village Engineer pertaining to parking and
access prior to approval.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.164 BUILDING LIMITATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Development and re-development of industrial properties bordering any non-
industrial zoned properties, Park District property, and on any front yard
abutting a public thoroughfare shall provide an obscuring wall constructed
along property lines. Such a wall shall not be less than 72 inches in height
and may, depending upon land usage, be required to be 96 inches in height, and
shall be in accordance with §
153.204. In lieu of a 72-inch high wall, a 72-inch tall chain link fence and a
20-foot wide greenbelt may be provided. In lieu of a 96-inch high wall, a 72-
inch tall chain link fence and a 40-foot wide greenbelt may be provided. The
heavily planted greenbelt shall be in accordance with §
153.199.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
I-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.175 INTENT.
   The I-2 General Industrial District is designed primarily for manufacturing,
assembly and fabrication activities including large scale or specialized
industrial operations, whose external physical effects will be felt to some
degree by surrounding districts. The I-2 District is so structured as to permit
the manufacturing, processing and compounding of semi-finished or finished
products from raw materials as well as from previously prepared material.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.176 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   In the General Industrial District, no building or land shall be used, and
no building shall be erected except for one or more of the following specified
uses unless otherwise provided in this chapter:
   (A)   Any principal use first permitted in an I-1 District;
   (B)   Heating and electric power generating plants;
   (C)   Any of the following production or manufacturing uses (not including
storage of finished products) if they are located not less than 800 feet
distant from any residential district and not less than 300 feet distant from
any other district:
      (1)   Junk yards, provided such are entirely enclosed within a building
or within an eight-foot obscuring wall;
      (2)   Incineration of garbage or refuse when conducted within an approved
and enclosed incinerator plant;
      (3)   Blast furnace, steel furnace, blooming or rolling mill;
      (4)   Manufacture of corrosive acid or alkali, cement, lime, gypsum, or
plaster of Paris;
      (5)   Petroleum or other inflammable liquids, production, refining or
storage; and
      (6)   Smelting of copper, iron or zinc ore.
   (D)   Any other use which shall be determined by the Village Board, after
recommendation from the Zoning Board, to be of the same general character as
the above permitted uses in §
153.161. The Village Board may impose any required setback and/or performance
standards to ensure public health, safety and general welfare; and
   (E)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the above
permitted uses.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.177 SIZE AND DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following table provides minimum criteria for the issuance of building
permits within the General Industrial zoning districts of the village.
Criteria General Industrial District
         I-2
         Value Notes
Criteria                                          General Industrial District
                                                  I-2
                                                  Value       Notes
Lot size (square feet)
Maximum floor area ratio
Maximum height of structure
 Height above grade (feet)
 Stories above grade
Maximum percent of lot coverage
Minimum width (feet)
Minimum yard setback
 Front yard                                      50
 Rear                                            10          c
 Side yard - at least one                        0, 10 or 15 a, b
 Side yard - total of both                       0 to 30     a, b
Parking spaces per 250 square feet of floor space             d
 
   (A)   Buildings with doors facing side yards shall provide a side yard
setback not less than 15 feet.
   (B)   Side yards are not required along the interior lot lines of Central
Business and General Business subdivisions. The exterior side bordering a
residential district or public street shall maintain a side yard not less than
ten feet.
   (C)   One-half the width of alleys at the rear of the lot may be considered
in computing rear yard setbacks.
   (D)   Parking is permitted in the front yard pending approval by the Zoning
Board of the parking plan layout and points of access. The Zoning Board may
request recommendations from the Village Engineer pertaining to parking and
access prior to approval.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.178 BUILDING LIMITATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Development and re-development of industrial properties
bordering any non-industrial zoned properties, Park District property, and on
any front yard abutting a public thoroughfare shall provide an obscuring wall
constructed along property lines.
      (2)   Such a wall shall not be less than 72 inches in height and may,
depending upon land usage, be required to be 96 inches in height, and shall be
in accordance with §
153.204.
   (B)   In lieu of a 72-inch high wall, a 72-inch tall chain link fence and a
20-foot wide greenbelt may be provided.
      (1)   In lieu of a 96-inch high wall, a 72-inch tall chain link fence and
a 40-foot wide greenbelt may be provided.
      (2)   The heavily planted greenbelt shall be in accordance with §
153.199.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
N-1 INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT
§ 153.180 INTENT.
   The N-1 Institutional District is designed for larger scale institutional
users such as schools and parks. The regulation of such uses is intended to be
flexible to accommodate the varied nature of such uses.
(Ord. 22-118, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 153.181 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Parks; and
   (B)   Schools.
(Ord. 22-118, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 153.182 DEVELOPMENT.
   Any construction (other than construction on an existing structure that does
not expand the footprint of such structure), change of use or other change with
respect to the use of property in the N-1 District shall be subject to approval
by the Village Board pursuant to the special use process described in §
153.267.
(Ord. 22-118, passed 12-5-2022)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.190 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   Whenever any provision of this chapter imposes more stringent requirements,
regulations, restrictions or limitations than are imposed or required by the
provisions of any other law or ordinance, then the provisions of this chapter
shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other law or ordinance imposes
more stringent requirements than are imposed or required by this chapter, the
provisions of such ordinance shall govern.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.191 SCOPE.
   No building or structure, or part thereof, shall hereafter be erected,
constructed or altered and maintained, and no new use or change shall be made
or maintained of any building, structure or land, or part thereof, except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.192 NONCONFORMING LOTS, STRUCTURES AND USES OF LAND.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   It is the intent of this chapter to permit legal nonconforming
lots, structures or uses to continue until they are removed but not to
encourage their survival.
      (2)   It is recognized that there exists within the districts established
by this chapter and subsequent amendments, lots, structures and uses of land
and structures which were lawful before this chapter was passed or amended
which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this
chapter or future amendments.
      (3)   Such uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with
permitted uses in the district involved. It is further the intent of this
chapter that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended,
nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere
in the same district.
      (4)   A nonconforming use of a structure, a non- conforming use of land,
or a nonconforming use of a structure and land shall not be extended or
enlarged after passage of this chapter by attachment on a building or premises
of additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or by addition
of other uses of a nature which would not be permitted generally in the
district involved.
      (5)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
on which actual construction or designated use of any building on which actual
construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter and upon which actual building construction has been
diligently carried on. ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to include the
placing of construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a
permanent manner; except that where demolition or removal of an existing
building has been substantially begun in preparation for another building
effort, such demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction;
provided that work shall be diligently carried on until completion of the
building involved.
   (B)   Nonconforming lots. In any district in which single-family dwellings
are permitted, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this
chapter, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be
erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter. This provision shall apply even though such lot
fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally
applicable in the district; provided that yard dimensions and other
requirements not involving area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to
the regulations for the district in which such lot is located. Yard requirement
variances may be obtained through the approval of the Zoning Board and the
Village Board.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses of land. Where, at the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this chapter, lawful use of land exists than is made no longer
permissible under the terms of this chapter, as enacted or amended, such use
may be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions.
      (1)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (2)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (3)   If such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than 180 days, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land
is located.
   (D)   Nonconforming structures. Where a lawful structure exists at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter that could not be built
under the terms of this chapter due to restrictions on area, lot coverage,
height, yards or other characteristics of the structure or its location on the
lot, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which
increases its nonconformity.
      (2)   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of
more than 50% of its replacement cost, exclusive of the foundation, it shall be
reconstructed only in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
   (E)   Nonconforming uses of structure and land. If a lawful use of a
structure, or of structure and land in combination, exists at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, that would not be permitted in
the district under the terms of this chapter, the lawful use may be continued
so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this
chapter in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
      (2)   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use and which
existed at the time of adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use
shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building.
      (3)   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure, or structure and land in combination, may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or a more restricted classification provided that
the Zoning Board, either by general rule or by making findings in the specific
case, shall find that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more
appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting
such change, the Zoning Board may require conditions and safeguards in accord
with the purpose and intent of this chapter. Where land in combination is here-
after changed to a more conforming use, it shall not thereafter be changed to a
less conforming use.
      (4)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which
a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform
to the regulations for the district in which such structure is located, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
      (5)   When a nonconforming use of a structure or structure and land in
combination discontinues operation as constituted upon adoption of this chapter
or as allowed as a change in nonconforming use as provided for in §
153.162(C) herein for a period of six months the structure or structure and
land in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformance with
the regulations of the district in which it is located. The Zoning Board may,
however, allow a new nonconforming use of the premises; provided a more
appropriate use than the use last made of the property is proposed; and
provided appropriate improvements are made, as specified by the Zoning Board to
assure the protection of property values in the district.
      (6)   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and land in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
   (F)   Repairs and maintenance.
      (1)   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any nonconforming
use, work may be done in any period of 12 months on ordinary repairs, or on
repair or replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing to an
extent not exceeding 10% of the assessed value of the building, provided that
the cubic content of the building as it existed at the time of passage or
amendment of this chapter shall not be increased.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof
declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety
upon order of such official.
   (G)   Uses under exception provisions not non-conforming uses. Any use for
such a special exception is permitted as provided in this chapter shall not be
deemed a nonconforming use, but shall, without further action, be deemed a
conforming use in such district.
   (H)   Change of tenancy or ownership. There may be a change of tenancy,
ownership or management of any existing nonconforming use of land, structure or
land and structure in combination.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.193 ACCESSORY USES AND BUILDINGS.
   Accessory use shall be established as otherwise permitted in this chapter,
shall be subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   No accessory use shall be established prior to the establishment of
the main or principal use, and no accessory structure shall be constructed,
erected, altered, remodeled, extended or moved prior to the establishment or
construction of the main or principal structure, except those accessory uses
and structures of a temporary nature required for the establishment of the main
or principal use, or for the construction of the main or principal structure.
   (B)   Where the accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be subject to, and must conform to, all regulations of this
chapter applicable to the main building.
   (C)   Accessory buildings shall not be erected in any minimum side yard
setback, nor in any front yard.
   (D)   Only one accessory structure shall be allowed on a residential
property in Districts R-1a, R-1, R-2a and R-2. The size of the structure shall
not exceed 3% of the property size. One additional gazebo or pergola will be
allowed with the same size constraints as the accessory structure. The gazebo
or pergola may have a knee wall not to exceed 36 inches in height measured from
the floor. The gazebo or pergola shall not be enclosed and shall not be used
for storage.
   (E)   No detached accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet
to any main building nor shall it be located closer than three feet to any side
or rear lot line. In those instances where the rear lot line is coterminous
with an alley right-of-way, the accessory building shall not be closer than one
foot to such rear lot line. In no instance shall an accessory building be
located within a dedicated easement right-of-way.
   (F)   (1)   No detached accessory building in R-1 through R-3, B-1, B-
2 Districts shall exceed one story or 14 feet in height.
      (2)   Accessory buildings in all other districts may be constructed to
equal the permitted maximum height of structures in said district, subject to
Zoning Board review and approval if the building exceeds one story or 14 feet
in height.
   (G)   When an accessory building is located on a corner lot, the side lot
line of which is substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the lot
to its rear, said building shall not project beyond the front yard setback
required on the lot to the rear of such corner lot.
   (H)   When an accessory building in any residential or business district is
intended for other than the storage of personal items of the property owner,
the accessory use shall be subject to the approval of the Zoning Board.
   (I)   Accessory uses such as detached heating or cooling units, home
television towers and similar accessory uses, shall be located only in the rear
yard and shall meet all setback requirements of an accessory building.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018; Ord.19-109, passed 8-5-2019; Ord. 21-126, passed
6-7-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.194 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be provided on each parcel of property in all districts
automobile off-street parking spaces with adequate access to all spaces.
   (B)   The number of off-street parking spaces, in conjunction with all land
or building uses shall be provided, prior to the issuance of a certificate of
compliance, as hereinafter prescribed.
      (1)   Off-street parking spaces may be located within a rear yard or
within a side yard which is more than the minimum side yard setback unless
otherwise provided in this chapter. Off-street parking shall not be permitted
within a front yard nor within a minimum side yard setback unless otherwise
provided in this chapter.
      (2)   Off-street parking for other than residential use shall be either
on the same lot or within 300 feet of the building it is intended to serve,
measured from the nearest point of the building to the nearest point of the
off-street parking lot. Ownership shall be shown on all lots or parcels
intended for use as parking by the applicant.
      (3)   Required residential off-street parking spaces shall consist of a
parking strip, parking bay, driveway, garage or combination thereof, and shall
be located on the premises they are intended to serve, and subject to the
provisions of §
153.193.
      (4)   Any area once designated as required off-street parking shall never
be changed to any other use unless and until equal facilities are provided
elsewhere.
      (5)   Off-street parking existing at the effective date of this chapter
in connection with the operation of an existing building or use shall not be
reduced to an amount less than hereinafter required for a similar new building
or use.
      (6)   Two or more buildings or uses may collectively provide the required
off-street parking in which case the required number of parking spaces shall
not be less than the sum of the requirements for the several individual uses
computed separately.
      (7)   In the instance of dual function of off-street parking spaces where
operating hours of buildings do not overlap, the Zoning Board may grant an
exception.
      (8)   The storage of merchandise, motor vehicles for sale, trucks or the
repair of vehicles is prohibited.
      (9)   For those uses not specifically mentioned, the requirements for
off-street parking facilities shall be in accord with a use which the Zoning
Beard considers is similar in type.
      (10)   For the purpose of computing the number of parking spaces
required, the definition of usable floor area in §
153.002, shall govern.
      (11)   For those buildings existing within the B-1 and B-2 Districts, no
additional parking space need be provided when remodeling or rebuilding of
structures is proposed, provided the floor area of existing structures on such
site is not increased in the remodeling or rebuilding undertaken. Where floor
area is increased, parking spaces shall be provided for such increased floor
area in accord with the provisions of this chapter.
      (12)   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces by type of use
shall be determined in accordance with the following schedule.
Use Number of Minimum Parking Spaces per Unit of Measure
Use                                      Number of Minimum Parking Spaces per
                                         Unit of Measure
Business and commercial                   
 Bowling alleys                         Five for each one bowling lane plus
                                         accessory uses
  Dance halls, pool or billiard parlors, One for each two persons allowed
 roller or skating rinks, exhibition    within the maximum occupancy load as
  halls and assembly halls without fixed established by local, country or state
  seats                                  fire, building or health codes
                                         One for each 100 square feet of usable
  Establishment for sale and consumption floor space or one for each two
 on the premises of beverages, food or  persons allowed within the maximum
  refreshments                           occupancy load as established by
                                         local, county or state fire, building
                                         or health codes
  Furniture and appliance, household     One for each 800 square feet of usable
  equipment, repair shops, showrooms of  floor area (for that floor area used
 plumber, decorator, electrician or     in processing, one additional space
  similar trade, shoe repair and other   shall be provided for each two persons
  similar uses                           employed therein)
                                          
 Gasoline service station               One for each lubrication stall, rack
                                         or pit and one for each gasoline pump
 Hair, nails and tanning salons         Two for each customer chair and one
                                         for each tanning bed, plus one
 Laundromats and coin operated dry      One for each two washing and/or dry-
  cleaners                               cleaning machines
 Mortuary establishments                One for each 75 square feet of usable
                                         floor space
 Motel, hotel or other commercial       One for each one occupancy unit, plus
  lodging establishments                 one for each one employee
  Motor vehicle sales and service        One for each 300 square feet of usable
 establishments                         floor space of sales room and one auto
                                         service stall in the service room
 Planned commercial or shopping center  Five for each 1,000 feet of gross
                                         floor area
 Retail stores, except as otherwise     One for each 150 square feet of usable
  specified herein                       floor space
Industrial                                
                                         Five, plus one for every employee in
  Industrial or research establishments  the largest working shift. Space on
 and related accessory offices          site shall also be provided for all
                                         construction workers during periods of
                                         plant construction
                                         Five plus one for each one employee in
 Warehouse and wholesale establishments the largest working shift, or one for
  and related accessory offices          every 1700 square feet of usable floor
                                         space, whichever is greater
Institutional                             
 Childcare centers and pre-schools      One for each 350 square feet of usable
                                         floor space
 Churches                               One for four seats or six feet of pews
                                         in the main unit of worship
                                         One for each five beds and one for
 Convalescent and assisted living       each two employees and/or staff
                                         members
 Hospitals                              One for each two beds and one for each
                                         two employees and/or staff members
                                         One for each family and individual
 Private athletic or recreation clubs   member or individuals plus spaces
                                         required for each accessory use, such
                                         as a restaurant or bar
                                         One for each four persons allowed
 Private clubs or lodge halls           within the maximum occupancy load as
                                         established by the local, county or
                                         state fire, building or health codes
                                         One for each teacher, employee or
 Schools                                administrator in addition to the
                                         requirements of auditoriums and one
                                         for each ten students
 Theaters and auditoriums               One for each four seats, plus one for
                                         each two employees
Offices                                   
 Banks                                  One for each 200 square feet of usable
                                         floor space
  Business offices or professional       One for each 250 square feet of usable
 offices (except as indicated in the    floor space
  item below)
                                         One for each 75 square feet of usable
 Professional offices of doctors,       floor area in waiting rooms, and one
  dentists or similar professions        for each examining room, dental chair
                                         or similar use area.
Residential                              Two per dwelling unit
 
      (13)   (a)   Accessible parking spaces shall be provided in accordance
with the current federal and state standards.
         (b)   At the time the Zoning Ordinance codified herein is adopted, the
2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design provide this information.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.195 OFF-STREET PARKING LAYOUT, STANDARDS, CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   All off-street parking lots shall be laid out, constructed and maintained in
accordance with the following standards and regulations.
   (A)   No parking lot shall be constructed unless and until a permit therefor
is issued by the Code Enforcement Officer. Applications for a permit shall be
submitted to the village in such form as may be determined by the Code
Enforcement Officer and shall be accompanied with two sets of site plans for
the development and construction of the parking lot showing in compliance with
section. Before issuing a construction permit, Code Enforcement Officer may
request Village Engineer to review the site plan for compliance with village
ordinances.
   (B)   Plans for the layout of off-street parking facilities shall be in
accord with the following minimum requirements.
 
Minimum Requirements for Off-Street Parking Facilities
Maneuvering lane width     12 feet 12 feet          15 feet             20 feet
Parking space length       23 feet 20 feet          20 feet             20 feet
Parking space width        8 feet  8 feet, 6 inches 8 feet, 6 inches    9 feet
Total width of one tier of
spaces, plus maneuvering   20 feet 32 feet          32 feet, six inches 40 feet
lane
Total width of two tiers
of spaces, plus            28 feet 52 feet          58 feet             60 feet
maneuvering lane
(Refer to
Appendix A, Illustration 9 for diagrams of these requirements.)
 
   (C)   All spaces shall provide adequate access by means of maneuvering
lanes. Backing directly onto a street shall be prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   Adequate ingress and egress to the parking lot by means of
clearly limited and defined drives shall be provided for all vehicles.
      (2)   Ingress and egress to a parking lot lying in areas zoned for other
than single-family residential use shall not be across land zoned for single-
family residential use.
   (E)   All maneuvering lane widths shall permit one-way traffic movement,
except that the pattern may permit two-way movement.
   (F)   Each entrance and exit to and from any off-street parking lot located
in an area zoned for other than single-family residential use shall be at least
25 feet distant from adjacent property located in any single-family residential
district.
   (G)   (1)   The portion of any off-street parking area which is contiguous
to or faces a residential district shall be provided with a continuous and
obscuring wall not less than four feet, six inches in height measured from the
surface of the parking area.
      (2)   When a front yard setback is required, all land between said wall
and the front property line or street right-of-way line shall be kept free from
refuse and debris and shall be landscaped with deciduous shrubs, evergreen
material and ornamental trees. The ground area shall be planted and kept in
lawn. All such landscaping and planting shall be maintained in a healthy,
growing condition, neat and orderly in appearance.
   (H)   (1)   The entire parking area, including parking spaces and
maneuvering lanes, required under this section shall be provided with asphaltic
or concrete surfacing in accordance with specifications approved by the Village
Engineer. The parking area shall be surfaced within six months of the date the
certificate of compliance is issued.
      (2)   Off-street parking areas shall be drained to dispose of all surface
water accumulated in the parking area in such a way as to preclude drainage of
water onto adjacent property or toward buildings.
   (I)   All lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be
so installed as to be confined within and directed onto the parking area only.
   (J)   In all cases where a wall extends to an alley which is a means of
ingress and egress to an off-street parking area, it shall be permissible to
end the wall not more than ten feet from such alley line to permit a wider
means of access to the parking area.
   (K)   The Zoning Board, upon application by the property owner of the off-
street parking area may modify the yard or wall requirements where, in unusual
circumstances, no good purpose would be served by compliance with the
requirements of this section.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.196 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   On the same premises with every building, structure or part thereof,
involving the receipt or distribution of vehicles or materials or merchandise,
there shall be provided and maintained on the lot, adequate space for standing,
loading and unloading to avoid undue interference with public use of dedicated
rights-of-way.
   (B)   Such space shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   All spaces shall be provided as required in §
153.177 under minimum rear yards except as hereinafter provided for I
districts.
      (2)    Within an I district all spaces shall be laid out in the dimension
of at least ten feet by 50 feet, or 500 square feet in area, with a clearance
of at least 14 feet in height. Loading dock approaches shall be provided with
an asphaltic or concrete surface. All spaces in I-1 and I-2 Districts shall be
provided in the ratio of spaces to floor area as provided in the as follows:
 
Gross Floor Area (square feet) Loading and Unloading Space Required
0 to 1,400                     None
1,401 to 20,000                One space
20,001 to 100,000              One space, plus one space for each 20,000 square
                               feet
More than 100,000              Five spaces
 
      (3)   All loading and unloading in an I district shall be provided off-
street in the rear yard or interior side yard and shall in no instance be
permitted in a front yard. In those instances where exterior side yards have a
common relationship with an industrial district across a public thoroughfare,
loading and unloading may take place in said exterior side yard when the
setback is equal to at least 50 feet.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018; Ord. 24-118, passed 10-21-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.197 USES NOT OTHERWISE INCLUDED WITHIN A SPECIFIC USE DISTRICT.
   Because the uses hereinafter referred possess unique characteristics, these
uses may be permitted by the Village Board under the conditions specified,
after a Public Hearing before the Zoning Board, and after a recommendation has
been received from the Zoning Board. In every case, the uses hereinafter
referred to shall be specifically prohibited from any residential districts,
unless otherwise specified.
   (A)   Outdoor theaters. Because outdoor theaters possess the unique
characteristics of being used only after darkness and since they develop a
concentration of vehicular traffic in terms of ingress and egress from their
parking area, they shall be permitted in I-2 Districts only. Outdoor theaters
shall further be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The proposed internal design shall receive approval from the Code
Enforcement Officer and the Village Engineer as to adequacy of drainage,
lighting and other technical aspects.
      (2)   Outdoor theaters shall abut a major thoroughfare and points of
ingress and egress shall be available only from such major thoroughfare.
      (3)   All vehicles, waiting or standing to enter the facility, shall be
provided off-street waiting space. No vehicle shall be permitted to wait or
stand within a dedicated right-of-way.
      (4)   The area shall be so laid out as to prevent the movie screen from
being viewed from residential areas of adjacent major thoroughfares. All
lighting used to illuminate the area shall be so installed as to be confined
within, and directed onto, the premises of the outdoor theater site.
   (B)   Towers and similar structures. Commercial television and radio towers,
public utility microwaves and public utility television transmitting towers,
cellular phone towers and electric generating windmills. Such facilities may be
permitted in I-1 and I-2 Districts provided said use shall be located centrally
on a continuous parcel of not less than one time the height of the tower
measured from the base of said tower to all points on each property line.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.198 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   No use otherwise allowed shall be permitted within any use district which
does not conform to the following standards of use, occupancy and operation,
which standards are hereby established as the minimum requirements to be
maintained within the area.
   (A)   Open storage. The open storage of any equipment, and all materials
including wastes, shall be screened from abutting residential property by an
enclosure consisting of an obscuring wall or fence not less than six feet high
or by a ten-foot wide greenbelt planting not less than six feet high. The
obscuring fence may be eliminated where such fence will interfere with traffic
movement on public streets or thoroughfares.
   (B)   Glare and radioactive materials.
      (1)   Glare from any process (such as or similar to arc welding or
acetylene torch cutting) which emits harmful rays shall be performed in such a
manner as not to extend beyond the property line, and as not to create a public
nuisance or hazard along lot lines.
      (2)   Radioactive materials and wastes, and including electromagnetic
radiation such as x-ray machining operation, shall not be permitted to exceed
quantities established as safe by the United States Bureau of Standards when
measured at the property line.
   (C)   Noise. Objectionable sounds of an intermittent nature shall be
controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
   (D)   Fire and explosive hazards.
      (1)   The storage, utilization of manufacture of materials or products
ranging from incombustible to moderate burning as determined by the Fire Chief
of Tremont Fire District, is permitted, subject to compliance with all other
performance standards above mentioned.
      (2)   The storage utilization, or manufacture of materials, goods or
products ranging from free or active burning to intense burning, as determined
by the Fire Chief, is permitted subject to compliance with all other yard
requirements and performance standards previously mentioned, and providing that
the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The materials or products shall be stored, utilized or produced
within completely enclosed buildings or structures having incombustible
exterior walls, which meet the requirements of the building code of the
village; and
         (b)   All such buildings or structures shall be set back at least 40
feet from lot lines and all such buildings or structures shall be protected
throughout by an automatic sprinkler system complying with installation
standards prescribed by the National Fire Association.
   (E)   Grading. Grading, as it relates to residential structures, shall be so
developed as to drain surface water away from residential dwellings. A minimum
slope of one-fourth inch in one foot shall be provided.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.199 GREENBELTS AND PLANT MATERIALS.
   (A)   Whenever a greenbelt or planting screen is required under the
provisions of this chapter, such greenbelt or planting screen shall be subject
to the following conditions.
      (1)   The required greenbelt or planting screen shall be planted with
permanent living plant materials within six months from the date of occupancy
and shall thereafter be maintained in presentable condition and shall be kept
free from refuse and debris; provided further that plant materials shall be
continuously maintained in a sound, healthy and vigorous growing condition, and
shall be kept free of plant diseases and insect pests.
      (2)   The selection, spacing and size of plant material shall be such as
to create, within a five-year period from the date of planting, a horizontal
obscuring effect for the entire length of the required greenbelt area, and a
vertical obscuring effect of such height as is determined adequate by the
Zoning Board for proper screening between land uses.
      (3)   The minimum horizontal dimensions of required greenbelt shall be as
set forth under the provisions of this chapter for the respective land uses and
districts indicated.
      (4)   In no instance shall the minimum dimensions of plant materials at
initial planting be less than the following:
         (a)   Deciduous shrubs: two feet in height;
         (b)   Deciduous trees: 114 inches in caliper;
         (c)   Evergreen shrubs: two feet in height;
         (d)   Evergreen trees: four feet in height; and
         (e)   Where under the provisions of this chapter, an option is
provided to the developer relative to the substitution of a greenbelt for a
required wall or berm, the minimum starting height of plant materials in the
greenbelt shall be equivalent to the required wall or berm height.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a greenbelt or planting screen is required under the
provisions of this chapter, a site plan of the parcel to be developed, together
with a detailed planting plan of the greenbelt, shall be submitted to the
Zoning Board for approval prior to the issuance of a building permit. The site
plan shall indicate, to scale, the proposed location and height of buildings
and other structures, the location of public walks, roadways and utilities, and
the proposed location of off-street parking, loading, service, and outside
storage areas and points of ingress-egress to the site. The planting plan shall
indicate, to scale, the locations, spacing, starting size and description for
each unit of plant material proposed for use within the required greenbelt
area, together with the finished grade elevations proposed therein.
      (2)   The Zoning Board shall review said planting plan relative to:
         (a)   The proper spacing, placement, and location of plant materials
relative to the length and width of greenbelt so to ensure that the required
horizontal and vertical obscuring effect of proposed land uses will be
achieved;
         (b)   The choice and selection of plant materials to ensure that root
systems will not interfere with public utilities and that fruit and other
debris (other than leaves) will not constitute a nuisance within public rights-
of-way, or to abutting property owners;
         (c)   The proposed relationship between deciduous and evergreen plant
materials to ensure that a maximum obscuring effect will be maintained
throughout the various seasonal periods; and
         (d)   The size of plant material (both starting and ultimate) to
ensure adequate maturity and optimum screening effect of proposed plant
materials.
Suggested Plant Materials
Evergreen Trees Narrow         Tree-Like Shrubs Large Deciduous Large Deciduous
(5-foot minimum Evergreens (3- (4-foot minimum  Shrubs (6-foot  Trees (8-foot
height)         foot minimum   height)          minimum height) minimum height)
                height)
Suggested Plant Materials
Evergreen Trees Narrow          Tree-Like       Large Deciduous Large Deciduous
(5-foot minimum Evergreens (3-  Shrubs (4-foot  Shrubs (6-foot  Trees (8-foot
height)         foot minimum    minimum height) minimum height) minimum height)
                height)
Douglas-Fir     Blue Columnar   Dogwood         Buckthorn       Beech
                Chinese Juniper
Fir             Column Hinoki   Flowering Crab  Cotoneaster     Birch
                Cypress
Hemlock         Columnar Giant  Hawthorn        Euonymus        Ginkgo
                Arbor-Vitae
Juniper         Douglas Arbor-  Hornbeam        Forsythia       Hackberry
                Vitae
Pine            Irish Yew       Magnolia        Hazelnut        Hard Maple
Spruce          Pyramidal Red-  Mountain Ash    Honeysuckle     Honey locust
                Cedar
                Pyramidal White Redbud          Lilac           Hop Hornbeam
                Pine
                Swiss Stone     Rose of Sharon  Mock-Orange     Linden
                Pine
                                Russian Olive   Privet          Planetree
                                                                (Sycamore)
                                                Sumac           Oak
                                                Viburnum        Sweet-Gum
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Greenbelts Planting Screen Illustrations; Transition Details, See
Appendix A, Illustration 10
§ 153.200 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose. The following regulations are provided to maintain the
attractiveness and orderliness of the appearance of the village and to protect
the public safety.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ADVERTISING SIGN. Any sign, including the supporting structure, which
directs attention to a business, service or activity not conducted upon the
premises, or a product not offered or sold upon the premises where such a sign
is located.
   ATTACHED SIGN. A sign permanently affixed to the exterior surface of a
building. No ATTACHED SIGN shall project further than 12 inches from the
building.
   BACK-TO-BACK SIGN. A structure with two parallel and directly opposite signs
with their faces oriented to opposite directions. BACK-TO-BACK SIGNS may be
separated by not more than one foot. A BACK-TO-BACK SIGN shall constitute one
sign.
   BUSINESS SIGN. A sign, including any supporting or framing structure, which
directs attention to a business or profession conducted upon the premises or to
a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the premises on
which the sign is located.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A temporary sign used in connection with a definite
construction site.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. An on-premises sign giving directions, which may contain
the name or logo of an establishment, but not contain any advertising copy.
   FREE-STANDING SIGN. Any sign permanently erected on a free-standing
framework supported and affixed by one or more uprights or braces in or upon
the ground.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes.
   PERPENDICULAR SIGN. Any sign that is mounted perpendicular to the face of
the structure it is mounted on.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   POLITICAL SIGN. A temporary sign used in connection with a local, state or
national election or referendum.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not classified as an attached or free-standing sign.
   SIGN AREA. The area encompassed within the shortest line drawn around the
perimeter of the display and message including all letters and designs which
are part of the sign; including border and trim, but excluding bases, aprons,
supports and other structural members; whichever is greater. The total
allowable sign area for a property includes the total of both business and
advertising signs. The terms SIGN AREA and GROSS SIGN AREA are used
interchangeably.
   SPECIAL OCCASION SIGN. A temporary sign used in connection with a one-time
uncommon, extraordinary event for purposes of honor or celebration, such as a
birthday, anniversary or sporting achievement.
   (C)   General application of sign regulations; building permit required. No
sign, outdoor advertising structure or display of any character shall be
permitted, except in conformity with the following regulations. A building
permit is required for erection, construction, placement or replacement of any
sign to be permanently attached to a building, to be permanently erected as a
free-standing sign, for any portable sign or for any temporary sign.
   (D)   General regulations for signs.
      (1)   No sign shall be of such brightness or shall flash, scintillate or
move as to create hazardous or annoying glare. Time and temperature or message
signs not otherwise prohibited under this regulation will be allowed; provided
they do not create hazardous or annoying glare.
      (2)   No sign shall be so located as to materially impede or so
illuminated as to interfere with the effectiveness of any traffic control
device or obstruct a motorist’s view at any street or highway intersection.
      (3)   Signs used exclusively for the posting or displaying of official
notices by a public agency or official or by a person giving legal notice, and
signs erected or maintained by a public agency or official or required by law
to be displayed by a public utility for directional warning or informational
purposes are not subject to the regulations of this chapter. Informational and
directional signs (which may include a corporate identity symbol) are exempt
from this regulation.
      (4)   No sign shall be pasted or painted directly on the surface of any
wall or roof.
      (5)   No sign shall be permitted to be placed on a fence in any
residential district (R-1, R-2 or R-3 Districts).
      (6)   No sign shall be permitted to be placed on a fence in any
commercial or industrial district unless the fence meets the setback
requirements for a sign in that zoning district.
      (7)   Permits are not required for temporary signs that announce a
campaign drive or civic event. However, persons posting such signs are
responsible for their removal within seven days after the termination of the
event. Permits are also not required for temporary real estate signs, but such
signs comply with the size requirements as prescribed in divisions (E)(3), (G),
(H) and (H)(3).
      (8)   Signs indicating the time and place of meetings of civic
organizations are permitted on the main entry roads into town; provided, only
one sign structure is utilized to accommodate all the notices on each major
entry road.
      (9)   Portable signs are allowable only under the following conditions:
         (a)   The sign area shall not exceed 32 square feet, and any one face
shall not exceed 16 square feet;
         (b)   A portable sign shall not be illuminated;
         (c)   A portable sign may be located only in districts zoned B-1, B-2,
I-1 and I-2;
         (d)   Only one portable sign per business location shall be allowed.
The location where
the portable sign is displayed must be on the same lot where the business is
located; and
         (e)   The height of a portable sign shall not exceed five feet.
      (10)   All signs shall be maintained in good and safe structural
condition. The painted portions of signs shall be periodically repainted and
kept in good condition. Illuminated signs shall be kept in proper working
order.
      (11)   The general area near any sign on undeveloped property must be
kept free and clear of sign materials, weeds, debris, trash and other refuse.
      (12)   Advertising signs shall not be established at any location having
principal frontage on any street within 300 feet of any property which is used
for public park, public school, church, city hall or public museum having
principal frontage on the same street or within 300 feet of any residential
zone abutting the business or industrial zone when such sign face would face
into the residential zone.
      (13)   No outdoor advertising sign or part thereof shall be located on
any property without the consent of the owner, holder, lessee, agent or
trustee.
      (14)   Any sign which for 14 consecutive days has directed attention to a
product, place, activity, person, institution or business which is no longer in
operation or existence shall be deemed to be abandoned and shall be removed
within 45 days of the expiration of said 14-day period. The person who erected
the sign on the premises and the owner of said premises, if different, shall be
jointly and severally responsible for the removal of said sign, including all
structural supports, braces, poles and framework.
      (15)   Except where otherwise specifically stated herein, any sign in
existence on the effective date of this chapter which does not comply with the
provisions of this chapter may continue in existence as a matter of right and
may be maintained and repaired pursuant to the provisions of this section.
Replacement of the existing signs are permitted only if the sign remains the
same in terms of size, height, placement, location and character.
      (16)   Directional signs are allowable, subject to the following
conditions:
         (a)   No setback is required;
         (b)   They shall not exceed a height of four feet; and
         (c)   Six square feet per sign is allowed. The square footage is not
to be included in computing the total general allowable sign area for the
property.
      (17)   Political signs are allowed, subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   They may not be displayed prior to six months before the
election which they refer to;
         (b)   They must be removed within seven days of the election they
refer to;
         (c)   The maximum allowable size is four square feet in residential
districts, and 32 square feet in commercial and industrial districts;
         (d)   No sign permit is required, but permission of the property owner
must be obtained before placing the signs;
         (e)   They shall not be placed on any right-of-way, street, alley,
sidewalk, driveway or other public way or property; and
         (f)   Signs may not be attached to any utility pole.
      (18)   Garage/yard sale signs are allowed, subject to the following
provisions:
         (a)   They shall not be displayed more than 24 hours before the
beginning of the posted sale time and must be removed within eight hours of the
completion of the posted sale time;
         (b)   The maximum allowable size of the sign is four square feet;
         (c)   The sign shall not be attached to any utility pole; and
         (d)   No sign permit is required, but permission of the property owner
must be obtained before placing the sign.
      (19)   Special occasion signs are allowed in residential districts (R-1,
R-2 and R-3) only, subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   The sign shall not exceed a total of 32 square feet;
         (b)   The sign shall not be illuminated;
         (c)   No permit is required; and
         (d)   The sign shall not be in place for more than five days.
      (20)   Construction signs are allowed in all zoning districts.
         (a)   Temporary construction signs are not required to obtain a permit
from the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
         (b)   The general contractor may display only one sign per
construction site, unless an additional sign is deemed necessary by contractor
to clarify delivery entrances.
            1.   The maximum allowable size of the sign is 12 square feet in
area and may not exceed four and one-half feet in height.
            2.   The sign must be removed within four weeks of the completion
of construction.
         (c)   Sub-contractors may display additional signs as follows:
            1.   Only one sign per construction site is allowed; and
            2.   The sign must be removed within one week after the completion
of subcontractor’s portion of the construction.
   (E)   Sign regulations within residential districts. The following sign
regulations shall pertain to all residential districts.
      (1)   Residential signs within residential districts shall be as follows.
         (a)   For single-family or two-family dwellings, for each dwelling,
nameplates and identification signs indicating the name and address of the
occupant are permitted, providing the sign area does not exceed two square
feet.
         (b)   For multi-family dwellings, for each residential building, one
identification sign indicating only the name and address of the building and
the name of the management is permitted, providing the sign area does not
exceed 16 square feet. The signs shall not be closer than eight feet to any
other lot of record.
         (c)   A residential project having several buildings shall be
permitted in addition to one additional sign with the name of the project only
on each street. The sign area shall be no greater than 32 square feet and shall
not exceed 16 square feet on one side. The signs may not be closer than 16 feet
to any other lot of record.
         (d)   No attached sign shall exceed one story in height or 14 feet
above the curb level, whichever is lower. No free-standing sign shall exceed
seven feet in height.
      (2)   Non-residential signs within residential districts shall be as
follows.
         (a)   For church bulletins, cemeteries, educational institutions,
recreation and social facilities, and other similar uses, one identification
sign with sign area not to exceed 60 square feet is permitted. No one face
shall be greater than 30 square feet. The signs may not be closer than eight
feet to any other lot of record.
         (b)   Illuminated signs in all R-1, R-2 and R-3 Residential Districts
are prohibited, except for church bulletins and educational institutions.
Illuminated time and temperature or automated language signs are prohibited in
all residential districts.
         (c)   Nonconforming business uses may have exterior signs with sign
area not to exceed 16 square feet with no more than eight square feet per side.
         (d)   Signs designating parking area entrances or exits are limited to
one sign for each entrance or exit, with sign area not exceeding two square
feet each. One sign shall be permitted per parking area designating the
conditions of use or identity of the parking area and limited to a sign area of
nine square feet.
         (e)   Temporary signs advertising the sale of agricultural products
grown or produced on the property with sign area not exceeding eight square
feet are permitted.
         (f)   No attached sign shall exceed one story in height or 14 feet
above the curb level, whichever is lower. No free-standing sign shall exceed
seven feet in height.
      (3)   Residential real estate signage shall be as follows.
         (a)   Temporary real estate signs are not required to obtain a permit
from the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
         (b)   Temporary on-site real estate signs are to be displayed for the
purpose of informing the public of the proposed sale or rental of real estate
property.
         (c)   No more than one on-site sign shall be posted on each property
for sale or rent, unless said property is a corner lot in which case two signs
are allowed.
         (d)   One additional temporary off-site residential real estate sign
may be posted within village limits and may be placed only with prior
permission from the owner of property on which sign is placed. Off-site signs
are allowed for real estate property sale only, with the sole intent to provide
direction to the property that is for sale. Such signs are not to be placed
within the State Route 9 right-of-way corridor.
         (e)   Special signage for a real estate open house showing is limited
to two signs in addition to those listed in division (D) above and this
division (E). No open house sign can be place more than two days prior to the
open house and must be removed within 24 hours after the completion thereof.
         (f)   No sign allowed under divisions (E)(3)(a) and (E)(3)(b) above
shall exceed four and one-half feet in height nor be placed within eight feet
of another lot. Sign area shall not exceed seven square feet in area.
         (g)   No sign allowed under division (E)(3)(d) or (E)(3)(e) shall
exceed four and one-half feet in height nor be placed within eight feet of
another lot. Sign area shall not exceed three square feet.
      (4)   Advertising signs or structures are prohibited in any residential
district except as outlined in this section.
   (F)   Sign regulations within office space districts. The following sign
regulations shall pertain to office space districts: Sign uses permitted in the
residential districts are permitted in the office space district. The
regulations covering permitted signs within residential districts shall also
apply to the Office Space District. No advertising signs are permitted in the
OS-1 District.
   (G)   Sign regulations within business districts. The following sign
regulations shall pertain to business districts.
      (1)   The regulations covering permitted signs within residential
districts shall also apply in business districts.
      (2)   In B-1 Districts, business signs are permitted subject to the
following conditions.
         (a)   The gross area in square feet of all signs attached to the wall
of a building shall not exceed 15% of the wall area to which they are attached
or of which they are a part. The gross area of all freestanding signs shall not
exceed one square foot of area per each lineal foot of frontage on the lot of
record.
         (b)   No sign shall exceed 20 feet in height and shall in no case
extend above the roof line.
         (c)   Integrated retail and office buildings or complexes. For
integrated retail and office building complexes with more than one building in
single ownership or under unified control, one additional free-standing
business sign other than those provided for in the B-1 District above shall be
permitted subject to the following:
            1.   The signs shall indicate only the name and location of such
center and the name and type of business of each occupant of the center;
            2.   The gross area of the additional sign shall not exceed one
square foot per each lineal foot of frontage and, in no case, more than 150
square feet; and
            3.   Such additional free-standing sign shall not exceed 20 feet in
height above the curb level.
         (d)   Perpendicular signs are permitted in the B-1 District subject to
the following conditions:
            1.   Perpendicular signs are permitted only for business that do
not meet the setback requirements for free-standing signs;
            2.   The sign must conform to the size requirements as listed for
free-standing signs in this section; and
            3.   The bottom of the sign shall be no lower than ten feet above
curb height.
      (3)   Business signs in B-2 District are permitted subject to the
following conditions.
         (a)   The gross area in square feet of all attached signs shall not
exceed 15% of the wall area to which they are attached or of which they are a
part.
         (b)   The gross area in square feet of all freestanding business signs
shall no exceed one square foot per each linear foot of frontage of the lot of
record.
         (c)   No attached business sign shall exceed 20 feet in height nor
extend above the roof line. No free-standing business sign shall exceed 30 feet
in height above the curb line.
         (d)   Integrated retail and office buildings or complexes (OS-1) or
integrated retail and office buildings or complexes with more than one building
in single ownership or under unified control, one additional free-standing
business sign, other than those provided for in B-2 District above, shall be
permitted subject to the following:
            1.   Such signs shall advertise only the name and location of such
center and the name and type of business of each occupant of the center.
            2.   The gross area of all signs shall not exceed one square foot
per liner foot of frontage and in no case more than 300 square feet.
            3.   Such additional free- standing sign shall not exceed 20 feet
in height above the curb level.
      (4)   Advertising signs in B-1 and B-2 Districts are prohibited (see
advertising sign definition).
      (5)   There shall be no more than one “For Sale” or “For Rent” sign per
lot of record, except that on a corner lot one sign shall be permitted on each
street side. The sign area shall not exceed 32 square feet, nor shall the sign
exceed seven feet in height.
   (H)   Sign regulations within industrial districts. The following sign
regulations shall pertain to business and advertising signs within industrial
districts.
      (1)   Business signs in I-1 and I-2 Districts are permitted subject to
the following conditions.
         (a)   The gross area in square feet of all attached business signs
shall not exceed 25% of the wall area to which they are attached or of which
they are a part.
         (b)   The gross area in square feet for a freestanding business sign
shall not exceed 150 square feet per sign face.
         (c)   No attached business sign shall extend above the roof line. No
free-standing business sign shall project higher than 35 feet above the curb
level.
      (2)   Advertising signs in the I-l and I-2 Industrial Districts are
prohibited.
      (3)   There shall be no more than one “For Sale” or “For Rent” sign per
lot of record, except that on a corner lot one sign shall be permitted on each
street side. No sign area shall exceed 64 square feet, nor shall any sign
exceed seven feet in height.
   (I)   Application of other law. The provisions of the Highway Advertising
Control Act of 1971, as now in force or as may be amended from time to time,
shall apply where applicable notwithstanding any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (J)   Severability clause. If any section, division, sentence, clause or
phrase of this chapter or any part thereof, or application thereof to any
person, firm, corporation, public agency or circumstance, is for any reason
held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, that decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this chapter or any part thereof. It is hereby
declared to be the legislative intent of the Board of Trustees that this
chapter would have been adopted had the unconstitutional or invalid provision,
clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part thereof not then been included.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.201 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   All outdoor lighting in all use districts used to light the general
area of a specific site shall be shielded to reduce glare and shall be so
arranged as to reflect lights away from all adjacent residential districts or
adjacent residences.
   (B)   All outdoor lighting in all use districts shall be directed toward and
confined to the ground areas of lawns or parking lots.
   (C)   All lighting in nonresidential districts used for the external
illumination of buildings, to feature the buildings, shall be spaced and
shielded so as not to interfere with the vision of persons on adjacent highways
or adjacent property.
   (D)   All illumination of signs and any other outdoor feature shall not be
of a flashing, moving or intermittent type. Artificial light shall be
maintained stationary and constant in intensity and color at all times when in
use.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.202 RESIDENTIAL ENTRANCEWAY.
   In all residential districts, so called entranceway structures including but
not limited to walls, columns and gates marking entrances to single-family
subdivisions or multiple housing projects may be permitted and may be located
in a required yard, except as provided in §
153.203; provided that such entrance way structures shall comply to all codes
of the village and shall be approved by the Zoning Board and a permit issued.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.203 CORNER CLEARANCE.
   No fence, wall, shrubbery, sign or other obstruction to vision above a
height of two feet from the established street grades shall be permitted within
the triangular area formed at the intersection of any street right-of-way lines
by a straight line drawn between the right-of-way lines at a distance along
each line of 25 feet from their point of intersection.
Cross-reference:
   Corner clearance illustration, see
Appendix A, Illustration 11
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.204 WALLS.
   (A)   Required walls shall be located on the lot line except where
underground utilities interfere and except in instances where this chapter
requires conformance with front yard setback lines in abutting residential
districts. Upon review of the site plan, the Zoning Board may approve an
alternate location for the wall or may waive the wall requirement if in
specific cases it would not serve the purposes of screening the parking area
effectively. Required walls may, upon approval of the Zoning Board, be located
on the opposite side of an alley right-of-way from a nonresidential zone that
abuts a residential zone when mutually agreeable to affected property owners.
The continuity of the required wall on a given block will be a major
consideration of the Zoning Board in reviewing such request.
   (B)   Such walls and screening barrier shall have no openings for vehicular
traffic or other purposes, except as otherwise provided in this chapter and
except such openings as may be approved by the Chief of Police and the Code
Enforcement Officer. All walls herein required shall be constructed of
materials approved by the Zoning Enforcement Officer to be durable, weather
resistant, rust proof and easily maintained. Wood or wood products shall be
specifically excluded.
   (C)   For property maintenance purposes, masonry walls may be constructed
with gaps which do not in any section (height and width) exceed 20% of the wall
surface. Where walls are so pierced, the openings shall be so spaced as to
maintain the obscuring character required and shall not reduce the minimum
height requirement. The arrangement of the openings shall be reviewed and
approved by the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   In consideration of requests to waive wall requirements between
nonresidential and residential districts, the Village Board shall refer the
request to the Zoning Board for a determination as to whether or not the
residential district is considered to be an area in transition and will become
nonresidential in the future.
      (1)   In such cases as the Zoning Board determines the residential
district to be a future nonresidential area, the Zoning Board may temporarily
waive wall requirements for an initial period not to exceed 12 months.
      (2)   Granting of subsequent waivers shall be permitted, provided that
the Zoning Board, shall decide as hereinabove described, for each subsequent
waiver prior to the granting of such waiver by the Zoning Board.
   (E)   Required berms shall be constructed as landscaped earth mounds with a
crest area at least four feet in width. The exterior face of the berm shall be
constructed as an earthen slope. The interior face of the berm may be
constructed as an earthen slope, or retained by means of a wall, terrace or
other means acceptable to the Code Enforcement Officer. Whenever an earthen
slope is provided, it shall be constructed with an incline not to exceed one
foot of vertical rise to three feet of horizontal distance.
      (1)   Berm slopes shall be protected from erosion by sodding or seeding.
If slopes are seeded, they shall be protected with a straw mulch held in place
by jute netting until the seed germinates and a permanent lawn is established.
The straw mulch is not required if the seeded slope is protected by a net that
is specifically designed to control erosion. The berm area shall be kept free
from refuse and debris and shall be planted with shrubs, trees or lawn and
shall be maintained in a healthy, growing condition.
      (2)   A planting and grading plan shall be prepared for the berm and
shall be reviewed by the Zoning Board. Plant materials within the berm area
shall be installed in accordance with the requirements for greenbelts and plant
materials contained herein.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Berms; illustration of transition details, see
 Appendix A, Illustration 13
   Walls; illustration of transition details, see
Appendix A, Illustration 12
§ 153.205 FENCES.
   Fences are permitted, or required, subject to the following.
   (A)   Fences on all lots of record in all residential districts which
enclose property and/or are within a required side or rear yard shall not
exceed six feet in height, measured from the surface of the ground, and shall
not extend forward beyond the front of the house or the required minimum front
yard setback, whichever is greater. Fences are to follow the slope of the
ground to prevent burrowing under the fence by small children or animals. On
corner lots fences shall not extend beyond the minimum front yard setback on
both the front and side yard facing the street.
   (B)   Recorded lots having lot area more than two acres and a frontage of at
least 200 feet, and acreage or parcels not included within the boundaries of a
recorded plat, in all residential districts, are excluded from these
regulations.
   (C)   Fences on all lots of record shall not contain electric current or
charge of electricity and may not be any type of wire fence, including, but not
limited to, barbed wire, livestock fence and chicken wire. Fences shall be
properly installed with posts embedded in concrete foundations and fence
material stretched tight between posts.
   (D)   Temporary seasonal fences limited to snow control and garden pest
control are permitted without requiring a building permit. Temporary fencing
intended to restrict access to and protect construction sites are allowed if a
building permit is issued for the construction project.
   (E)   Fence framing and braces shall be on the inside of the fence enclosure
so that the decorative, smooth or face-side of the fence faces the outside of
the enclosure.
   (F)   Fences which enclose public or institutional parks, playground or
public landscaped areas, situated within an area developed with recorded lots
shall not exceed eight feet in height, measured from the surface of the ground,
and shall not obstruct vision to an extent greater than 25% of their total
area.
   (G)   Fences shall further comply with all applicable codes and ordinances
of the village.
   (H)   No fence, wall, shrubbery or other obstruction to vision above a
height of 30 inches from the established street grades shall be permitted
within the triangular area formed at the intersection of any street right-of-
way lines at a distance along each line of 25 feet from their point of
intersection.
   (I)   Construction or installation of a new fence, or replacement of an
existing fence, requires a building permit.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Residential fence setbacks, see
Appendix A, Illustration 14
§ 153.206 SITE PLAN REVIEW (ALL DISTRICTS).
   (A)   Building additions or accessory buildings shall not require Zoning
Board review unless off-street parking in addition to that already provided on
the site is required.
   (B)   A site plan shall be submitted to the Zoning Board for approval of:
      (1)   Any use or development for which the submission of a site plan is
required by any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   Any development, except single-family and two-family residential,
for which off-street parking areas are provided as required in §
153.196;
      (3)   Any use in R-2, R-2a, R-3, B-1, B-2 I-1 or I-2 Districts lying
contiguous to or across a street from a single-family residential district;
      (4)   Any use except single- or two-family residential, which lies
contiguous to a major thoroughfare or collector street;
      (5)   All residentially related uses permitted in single-family districts
such as, but not limited to, churches, schools and public facilities; and
      (6)   Building additions or accessory buildings shall not require Zoning
Board review unless off-street parking in addition to that already provided on
the site is required.
   (C)   The following information shall be included on the site plan:
      (1)   A scale of not less than one inch equals 50 feet if the subject
property is less than three acres and one inch equals 100 feet if above three
acres or more;
      (2)   Date, north point and scale;
      (3)   The dimensions of all lot and property lines, showing the
relationship of the subject property to abutting properties;
      (4)   The location of all existing and proposed structures on the subject
property and all existing structures within 100 feet of the subject property;
      (5)   The location of all existing and proposed drives and parking areas;
      (6)   The location and right-of-way widths of all abutting streets and
alleys; and
      (7)   The names and addresses of the architect, planner, designer,
engineer or person responsible for the preparation of the site plan.
   (D)   In the process of reviewing the site plan, the Zoning Board shall
consider:
      (1)   The location and design of driveways providing vehicular ingress to
and egress from the site in relation to streets giving access to the site, and
in relation to pedestrian traffic;
      (2)   The traffic circulation features within the site and location of
automobile parking areas and may make such requirements with respect to any
matters as will assure:
         (a)   Safety and convenience of both vehicular and pedestrian traffic
both within the site and in relation to access streets; and
         (b)   Satisfactory and harmonious relationships between the
development on the site and the existing and prospective development of
contiguous land and adjacent neighborhoods.
      (3)   The Zoning Board may further require landscaping, fences and walls
in pursuance of these objectives and same shall be provided and maintained as a
condition of the establishment and the continued maintenance of any use to
which they are appurtenant; and
      (4)   In those instances wherein the Zoning Board finds that as excessive
number of ingress and/or egress points may occur with relation to major or
secondary thoroughfares, thereby diminishing the carrying capacity of the
thoroughfare, the Zoning Board may recommend marginal access drives. For a
narrow frontage, which will require a single outlet, the Zoning Board may
recommend that money or suitable bond be placed in escrow with the village to
provide for a marginal service drive equal in length to the frontage of the
property involved. A certificate of compliance shall not be issued until the
improvement is physically provided, or monies or suitable bond have been
deposited with the Village Clerk for such improvement.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.207 FRONTAGE ON A PUBLIC STREET.
   No lot shall be used for any purpose permitted by this chapter unless the
lot abuts a public street, unless otherwise provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 88-104, passed 4-4-88; Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.208 ACCESS TO MAJOR THOROUGHFARE/COLLECTOR STREET.
   (A)   For uses referring to this section, vehicular access shall be provided
only to an existing or planned major thoroughfare, freeway service drive or
collector street. Provided, however, that access driveways may be permitted to
other than major thoroughfares, freeway service drives or collector streets
where such access is provided to a street where the property directly across
the street from such driveway and all property abutting such street between the
driveway and the major thoroughfare, freeway service drive or collector street
is zoned for multiple-family use of any nonresidential uses, is developed with
permanent uses other than single-family residence or is an area which, in the
opinion of the Zoning Board, will be used for other than single-family purposes
in the future.
   (B)   This exception shall apply only if the Zoning Board finds that there
are special circumstances which indicate that there will be a substantial
improvement in traffic safety by reducing the number of driveways to a
thoroughfare.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.209 MAILBOXES AND NEWSPAPER RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLUSTER BOX. Includes a grouping of mailboxes commonly described as
CLUSTER BOXES, gang boxes, data distribution boxes or any other placement of
mailboxes at a single location in groups of five or more.
      MAILBOX.  Any receptacle erected on private or village property used for
the delivery of U.S. Postal Service mail.
      NEWSPAPER RECEPTACLE.  Any box tube, or other receptacle used for the
purpose of receiving newspapers, advertising publications or other forms of
printed matter.
      NUISANCE. The term and the penalties prescribed therefore are as set
forth in Chapter 97.
   (B)   Placement. Mailboxes may be placed, installed or maintained on private
property only by the owner or tenant thereof, or upon village property only by
the owner or tenant of contiguous property. No person shall place, install or
maintain a mailbox on property owned by another or on property not contiguous
to property owned by him or her or on which he or she is a tenant.
   (C)   Number. It shall be unlawful to place, install or maintain (i) more
than a single mailbox on private property zoned "Residential R-1"; (ii) more
than two mailboxes on private property zoned "Residential R-2"; and (iii) more
than four mailboxes on private property zoned "Residential R-4."
   (D)   Cluster boxes on village property. No cluster box shall be placed,
installed or maintained on village property.
   (E)   Cluster boxes on private property. No cluster box shall be placed,
installed or maintained in the R-1, R-1a, R-2 and R-2a Districts. Cluster box
installations are permitted in districts only if the owner thereof shall have
first obtained a special use permit for such purpose.
   (F)   Newspaper receptacles. It shall be unlawful to place, install or
maintain, either as a part of any mailbox or as a separate unit, any newspaper
receptacle upon any village or private property within ten feet of any street
or public right-of-way.
   (G)   Obstruction of streets and sidewalks. All mailbox installations must
be installed such that they do not extend into the street and do not extend
over a sidewalk. Post installations must be vertical, mailboxes must be
horizontal and must remain stable. Any unstable installations must be promptly
repaired, replaced or removed.
   (H)   Failure to remove: separate and recurring offense. It shall be
unlawful and a violation of this section for any person to neglect, refuse or
otherwise fail to remove any such mailbox which has been placed, installed or
maintained in violation of this section. Each day such violation continues or
is allowed to exist after notice thereof, shall be deemed a new and separate
offense.
   (I)   Violation and penalty. A violation of the provisions contained in this
section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be enforceable as set forth in
Chapter 97.
(Ord. 23-113, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 153.210 SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNITS.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. It is the intent and purpose of this
section to provide regulations regarding the operation of short-term rental
units within the corporate limits of the Village of Tremont. Such use shall
comply with all regulations provided below.
   (B)   Permitted as special use. A short-term rental unit shall be permitted
in the R-1 and R-2 zoning districts only upon approval by the Village Board
after a hearing before the Zoning Board as set forth in §
153.267(B) of the Village Code.
   (C)   Defined. A SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT shall mean any structure or dwelling
unit, or part thereof, that is rented with or without meals for compensation to
transient guest(s) for a period less than 30 consecutive days. Bed and
breakfast establishments are considered SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNITS. Boarding and
renting of rooms are considered SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNITS.
   (D)   Application. Applications for approval of a special use permit for a
short-term rental unit shall include the name, address, telephone number, email
address and signature of the applicant (and the property owner, if other than
the applicant), the payment of an application fee in an amount determined by
the Village Board, the legal description of the property proposed for the
short-term rental unit, how many guests the applicant will allow in the short-
term rental unit at any one time, and such other information as the village
shall require. The application fee shall be paid in full at the time of filing
of the application. The fee shall be paid in cash or by money order or
cashier's check, and no other method of payment will be accepted. The fee shall
be prorated per day for that portion of the year for which the special use
permit is issued. Upon issuance of a special use permit, the excess amount paid
over the prorated amount due shall be refunded.
   (E)   Minimum requirements.
      (1)   A short-term rental unit shall comply with the following minimum
requirements:
         (a)   The applicant and all guests shall not violate any provision of
the Village Code;
         (b)   The property shall have a driveway or a garage designed and
suitable for parking at least two vehicles. Any and all vehicles parked at the
short-term rental unit shall be parked on the driveway or in the garage. No
vehicles shall be parked on any street or alley adjacent to the short-term
rental unit. No vehicles shall be parked on the portion of the property
designated as public right-of-way;
         (c)   The applicant shall file with the village the name, address,
email address and phone number of the person responsible for the short-term
rental unit;
         (d)   Maintain with the village a refundable deposit in an amount
determined by the Village Board to secure compliance by the applicant, property
owner, and all guests with the Village Code. If, at any time, the amount on
deposit with the village is less than the minimum deposit, the applicant shall
increase the deposit to the minimum deposit within ten days of notice to the
applicant by mail at the address provided on the application. Upon revocation
or non-renewal of the special use permit, the applicant will be entitled to a
refund of the deposit less any fees or fines assessed to the applicant pursuant
to this section or any other provision of the Village Code; and
         (e)   The applicant shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with the Village Code as provided herein.
      (2)   The requirements set forth above are intended to be minimum
requirements, and this section shall not be construed to prevent the village
from imposing additional requirements for approval, nor shall it be construed
to require the village to approve any short-term rental unit when all of the
minimum requirements are met.
   (F)   Maximum number. The maximum number of special use permits that may be
issued for a short-term rental unit shall be five.
   (G)   Duration and renewal. All special use permits issued pursuant to this
section shall be for a term not to exceed one year, expiring on the fourth
Tuesday of May of each year. All applications for the renewal of a special use
permit issued under this section shall be made in writing. In addition to the
application for renewal, the permittee shall submit an affidavit stating that
the information and statements contained in the original application have not
changed and that the short-term rental unit has been operated in accordance
with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations. Upon such affidavit being
filed, the special use permit may be renewed without the filing of a full
application. A renewal application fee in an amount determined by the Village
Board shall be due at the time the application for renewal is submitted. The
application fee shall be paid at the time of filing of the application. The fee
shall be paid in cash or by money order or cashier's check, and no other method
of payment will be accepted. No public hearing shall be required for renewal of
a special use permit pursuant to this section. A special use permit issued
under this section is a privilege and not a right, and is subject to non-
renewal at the discretion of the village. The village shall not refuse to renew
a special use permit issued under this section except after a public hearing
held in the same manner as described in division (H) below.
   (H)   Suspension or revocation.
      (1)   A special use permit issued under this section shall permit the
operation of a short-term rental unit only on the premises described in the
application and special use permit and only under the conditions and
restrictions imposed in this section and in the special use permit. Such
special use permit shall not be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such special use
permit shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but
shall cease upon the death of the permittee. A special use permit issued under
this section is a privilege and not a right, and is subject to revocation and
suspension as set forth herein.
      (2)   The village may revoke or suspend any special use permit upon a
determination that the permittee has violated any of the provisions of this
section, any other provision of the Village Code, or any other applicable law,
ordinance or regulation. In addition to the suspension, the village may levy a
fine on the permittee for such violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed
$750 for each violation. Each day on which a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation. No special use permit shall be so revoked or
suspended and no permittee shall be fined except after a public hearing before
the village's Zoning Board with a three-day written notice to the permittee
affording the permittee an opportunity to appear and defend. All such hearings
shall be open to the public, and the village shall reduce all evidence to
writing and shall maintain an official record of the proceedings. Any fine
levied pursuant to this section may be deducted from the deposit described in
division (E) above.
      (3)   If the village has reason to believe that any continued operation
of a short-term rental unit will immediately threaten the welfare of the
community, it may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for
such conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the short-term rental unit
closed for not more than seven days, giving the permittee an opportunity to be
heard during that period.
      (4)   The village shall within five days after such hearing, if it
determines after such hearing that the special use permit should be revoked or
suspended or that the permittee should be fined, state the reasons for such
determination in a written order, and either the amount of the fine, the period
of suspension, or that the special use permit has been revoked, and shall serve
a copy of such order within the five days upon the permittee.
(Ord. 22-115, passed 10-3-2022)
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS
§ 153.220 AREA, HEIGHT AND USE EXCEPTIONS.
   The regulations in this chapter shall be subject to the following
interpretations and exceptions.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.221 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Essential services shall be permitted as authorized and regulated by law and
other ordinances of the village, it being the intention hereof to exempt such
essential services from the application of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.222 VOTING PLACE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be so construed as to interfere
with the temporary use of any property as a voting place in connection with a
municipal or other public election.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.223 HEIGHT LIMIT.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to chimneys, church
spires, flag poles, public monuments or wireless transmission towers; however,
the Zoning Board may specify a height limit for any such structure when such
structure requires authorization as a conditional use.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.224 LOTS ADJOINING ALLEYS.
   In calculating the area of a lot that adjoins an alley for the purpose of
applying lot area requirements of this chapter, one-half the width of such
alley abutting the lot shall be considered as part of such lot.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.225 YARD REGULATIONS.
   When yard regulations cannot reasonably be complied with or where their
application cannot be determined on lots of peculiar shape, topography or due
to architectural or site arrangement, such regulations may be modified or
determined by the Zoning Board.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.226 PORCHES.
   An open, unenclosed and uncovered porch or paved terrace may project into a
front yard for a distance not exceeding ten feet, but this shall not be
interpreted to include or permit fixed canopies.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.227 PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS.
   Architectural features, not including vertical projections, may extend or
project into a required side yard not more than four inches for each one foot
of width of such side yard, and may extend or project into a required front
yard or rear yard not more than three feet.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.228 ACCESS THROUGH YARDS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, access drives may be placed in the required
front or side yards to provide access to rear yards or accessory or attached
structures. These drives shall not be considered as a structural violation in
front and side yards. Further, any walk, terrace or other pavement servicing a
like function, and not more than nine inches above the grade upon which place,
shall, for the purpose of this chapter, not be considered a structure, and
shall be permitted in any required yard.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.229 EXISTING USES IN R, B AND I DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Two-family dwellings existing in R-1a Districts shall not be
considered as nonconforming uses for the purposes of remodeling or rebuilding
such residences.
   (B)   One and two-family dwellings existing in B-1, B-2, I-1 and I-
2 Districts shall not be considered as nonconforming uses for the purposes of
remodeling or rebuilding such residences.
   (C)   Business or offices existing in I-1 and I-2 Districts shall not be
considered as nonconforming uses for the purposes of remodeling or rebuilding
such office or business buildings.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.230 TELEVISION AND SATELLITE RECEPTION DEVICES.
   A SATELLITE ANTENNA DISH, which is defined as a device used for the
reception of communications or other signals from orbiting satellites, is
permitted in all districts, subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   Dishes mounted on the ground level shall not exceed a height of 12
feet.
   (B)   Dishes mounted on the rooftop or chimney of a structure shall not be
greater than two feet in diameter, and the highest point of the dish shall not
exceed 35 feet measured from the top to the curb level.
   (C)   The dish shall not contain any lettering other than that placed on
same identifying the manufacturer and shall, not otherwise be used for the
display of messages.
   (D)   Ground-mounted dishes shall be located only in the rear yard and shall
be subject to a ten-foot setback on the side yard lot line. If an easement
requires a greater setback than the foregoing, then the easement setback shall
apply.
   (E)   Ground-mounted dishes shall be reasonably concealed from view at
ground level of adjacent properties on all sides, except the side to which the
dish is directed to receive the signal. On that side, the view shall be
obscured to the extent possible without interfering with the reception of the
signal. Fencing or landscape screening shall be used for such purpose subject
to the general requirements for same as provided in other sections of this
chapter. Any landscape screening that is used must be planted within six months
of the date of installation of the dish and must be continuously maintained.
Any landscape screening that is used must be non-deciduous and must be of a
minimum height of four feet when planted.
   (F)   A satellite antenna dish may be used only if it is permanently affixed
to the ground or rooftop or chimney of a structure. Satellite antenna dishes
may not be located or affixed to any mobile object, including but not limited
to motor vehicles, trailers or other movable objects. The use of a satellite
antenna dish on a temporary basis is expressly prohibited.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.245 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Code Enforcement Officer, or by such deputies as may be appointed to enforce
the provisions of this chapter, and they shall have general police power for
the purpose of enforcing the Zoning Ordinance contained herein.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.246 DUTIES OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall have the power to grant zoning
compliance certificates and make inspections of buildings or premises necessary
to carry out those duties in the enforcement of this chapter. It shall be
unlawful for the Code Enforcement Officer to approve any plans or issue any
permits or certificates of compliance for any excavation or construction until
he or she has inspected such plans in detail and found them to conform with the
chapter.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall record all nonconforming uses
existing at the effective date of this chapter for the purpose of carrying out
the provisions of §
153.192.
   (C)   Under no circumstance is the Code Enforcement Officer permitted to
make changes to this chapter, nor to vary the terms of this chapter in carrying
out his or her duties as Code Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall not refuse to issue a permit when
conditions imposed by this chapter are complied with by the applicant despite
violation of contracts, such as covenants or private agreements which may occur
upon the granting of said permit.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.247 SITE PLAN.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall require that all applications for
building permits be accompanied by plans and specifications including a site
plan, drawn to scale, showing the following:
   (A)   The actual shape, location and dimensions of the lot and of all
buildings or other structures to be erected, altered or moved and of any
building or other structures already on the lot;
   (B)   The site plan shall identify storm drainage patterns on the site and
the applicant shall be responsible for controlling soil erosion throughout the
building process. Soil and construction debris shall not be allowed to leave
the construction site and cause damage to adjacent property, drainage channels
or storm drainage conveyance systems;
   (C)   The existing and intended use of the lot and of all such structures
upon it, including in residential areas, the number of dwelling units the
building is intended to accommodate; and
   (D)   Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be
essential for determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being
observed.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.248 PERMITS.
   The following shall apply in the issuance of any permit.
   (A)   Permits not to be issued. No building permit shall be issued for the
erection, alteration or use of any building or structure or part thereof, or
for the use of any land, which is not in accordance with all provisions of this
chapter;
   (B)   Permit for new use of land. No land heretofore vacant shall hereafter
be used, or an existing use of land be hereafter changed to a use of a
different class or type unless a building permit is first obtained for the new
or different use and a certificate of compliance is issued upon completion.
   (C)   Permits for new use of buildings. No building or structure, or part
thereof, shall be changed to or occupied by a use of a different class or type
unless a certificate of compliance is first obtained for the new or different
use.
   (D)   Permits required. No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be
hereafter erected, altered, moved or repaired unless a building permit has been
first issued for such work. The terms ALTERED and REPAIRED shall include any
changes in structural parts, stairways, type of construction, type, class or
kind of occupancy, means of egress and ingress, or other changes affecting or
regulated by this chapter, except for minor repairs or changes not involving
any of the aforesaid features.
   (E)   Building setback inspection. Holders of building permits issued for
the construction of a new structure or expansion of an existing structure that
requires a foundation shall contact the Code Enforcement Officer before the
foundation is constructed and request a foundation inspection. The purpose of
the inspection is to verify the building is built in accordance with the
construction plan location and that all setbacks are satisfied. The Code
Enforcement Officer shall be notified 72 hours before construction of permanent
footings. A certificate of compliance may be withheld if the structure does not
comply with setback requirements and the building permit holder did not request
the building setback inspection.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.249 CERTIFICATES.
   No land, building or part thereof, shall be occupied by or for any use
unless and until a certificate of compliance shall have been issued for such
use. The following shall apply in the issuance of any certificate.
   (A)   Certificates not to be issued. No certificate of compliance shall be
issued for any building, structure or part thereof, or for the use of any land,
which is not in accordance with all the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Certificate required. No building, structure or parts thereof, which
is hereafter erected or altered shall be occupied or used or the same caused to
be done, unless and until a certificate of compliance shall have been issued
for such building or structure. A certificate of compliance shall be required
for any change in use of a building structure or land.
   (C)   Certificates including zoning. Certificates of compliance as required
by the village building code for new buildings or structures, or parts thereof,
or for alterations to or changes of use of existing buildings or structures,
shall also constitute certificates of compliance as required by this chapter.
   (D)   Certificates for existing buildings. Certificates of compliance shall
be issued for existing buildings, structures or parts thereof, or existing uses
of land if, after inspection, it is found that such buildings, structures or
parts thereof, or such use of land, are in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (E)   Record of certificates. A record of all certificates issued shall be
kept on file in the Village Hall, and copies shall be furnished upon request to
any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the property involved.
   (F)   Certificates for accessory buildings. Buildings or structures
accessory to dwellings shall not require separate certificates of compliance if
the structure was on the plot plan and is completed at the same time as such
dwellings. A certificate of compliance is required if the building permit was
issued for the accessory building construction.
   (G)   Application for certificates. Application for certificates of
compliance shall be made in writing to the Code Enforcement Officer on forms
furnished by that department, and such certificates shall be issued within five
days after receipt of such application if it is found that the building or
structure, or part thereof, or the use of land is in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. If such certificate is refused for cause, the
applicant therefor shall be notified of such refusal and cause thereof, within
the aforesaid five-day period.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.250 FINAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   The holder of every building permit for the construction, erection,
alteration, repair or moving of any building, structure or part thereof shall
notify the Code Enforcement Officer immediately upon completion of the work
authorized by such permit for a final inspection.
   (B)   Once the Code Enforcement Officer is satisfied the building complies
with the terms of the building permit, a certificate of compliance shall be
issued by the Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.251 FEES.
   (A)   Fees for inspection and the issuance of permits or certificates or
copies thereof required or issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
collected by the Code Enforcement Officer in advance of issuance.
   (B)   The amount of such fees shall be established by resolution of the
Village Board and shall cover the cost of inspection and supervision resulting
from enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ZONING BOARD
§ 153.265 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   A Zoning Board is hereby established in accordance with the provisions
of the statute applicable thereto. Regular meetings of the Zoning Board shall
be held at such time and place within the village as the Board may determine.
Special meetings may be held at the call of the chairperson, or as determined
by the Zoning Board. Such Chairperson, or, in his or her absence, the Acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel attendance of witnesses.
   (B)   All meetings of the Zoning Board shall be open to the public. Such
Zoning Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each
member on every question. If any member is absent or fails to vote, the minutes
shall indicate such fact. The Zoning Board shall adopt its own rules of
procedure not in conflict with the statute of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.266 APPEALS; HOW TAKEN.
   (A)   Appeals to the Zoning Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by
an officer, department or board of the village.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be taken within 20 days from the date of the action
appealed from, by filing with the Code Enforcement Officer and with the Zoning
Board a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The Code Enforcement
Officer shall forthwith transmit to the Zoning Board all papers constituting
the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (C)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from unless the Code Enforcement Officer certifies to the Zoning Board, after
the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that because of facts
stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property.
   (D)   The Zoning Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of the appeal
and give due notice thereof to the parties and decide the same within a
reasonable time. The Zoning Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or
may modify the use, requirement, decision or determination as, in its opinion,
ought to be made on the premises.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.267 JURISDICTION.
   The Zoning Board shall not have the power to alter or change the zoning
district classification of any property, nor to make any change in the terms of
this chapter but, does have power to act on appeals and hold public hearings as
set forth herein. Said powers include:
   (A)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals as set forth in §
153.266;
   (B)   Special uses. To hold public hearings in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, on requests for special use permits. Any special
use permit may be subject to such conditions as the Village Board may require
to preserve and promote the character of the zoning district in question and
otherwise promote the purpose of this chapter;
   (C)   Variance. To hold public hearings on requests for variances from the
strict applications of the provisions of this chapter whereby reason of
exceptional narrowness, shallowness, shape or area of a specific piece of
property at the time of enactment of this chapter or by reason of exceptional
topographic conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional conditions of such
property, the strict application of the regulations enacted would result in
peculiar or exceptional practical difficulties to, or exceptional undue
hardship upon the owner of such property; provided such relief may be granted
without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this chapter;
   (D)   Application for variance and/or special use. An application for a
variance and/or special use may be made by filing a written application with
the Code Enforcement Officer in duplicate in the office of the Village Clerk.
Such application shall:
      (1)   State the name and address of the applicant (and the name and
address of the owner of record, if applicant is not such owner);
      (2)   State the location and legal description of the lot for which the
variance and/or special use is sought; and
      (3)   Request the variance and/or special use desired.
   (E)   Hearing date and notice of public hearing.
      (1)   If the application for a variance and/or special use is in proper
form, and the proper fee paid, the Zoning Board shall set a hearing date for
the application and shall cause a notice of the time and place of such public
hearing to be published at least once in one or more local newspapers published
in the county, no less than 15 days, nor more than 30 days, prior to the date
of the hearing. Such notice shall contain the location for which the variance
and/or special use is requested as well as a brief statement describing the
variance and/or special use requested.
      (2)   Not less than ten days before the hearing, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall mail a copy of such published notice to the applicant at the
address given in such application, the Zoning Board shall maintain in its
records a publisher’s certificate with an attached copy of the notice as
published, and the Zoning Board shall file such notice with the Village Clerk
for inclusion in the records of the village.
      (3)   If the application is not in proper form, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the applicant, in writing, and no hearing shall be set,
nor notice published, until a proper application is filed and the proper fee
paid.
   (F)   Hearing by the Zoning Board.
      (1)   A public hearing on the application for the variance and/or special
use shall be conducted by the Zoning Board. The hearing shall be held in
accordance with the general rules for meeting of the Zoning Board provided for
in this chapter, and such hearing may be continued from time to time as
required.
      (2)   After the hearing, the Zoning Board shall make a report of their
findings to the Village Board, and in said report shall recommend approval or
disapproval of such proposed variance and/or special use. Every report shall
contain findings of fact specifying the reason for the Zoning Board’s
recommendation.
   (G)   Vote of the Village Board. Within 30 days after receipt of the report
of the Zoning Board, the Village Board may, by vote, without further public
hearing, grant or deny the variance and/or special use or they may refer it
back to the Zoning Board for further consideration.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.268 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Each case before the Zoning Board shall be considered as an individual
case and shall conform to the detailed application of the following standards
in a manner appropriate to the circumstances of such case. All uses as listed
in any district requiring Zoning Board approval for a permit shall be of such
location, size and character that, in general, it will be in harmony with the
appropriate and orderly development of the district in which it is situated and
will not be detrimental to the orderly development of adjacent districts.
   (B)   The Zoning Board shall consider the following:
      (1)   The location and size of the use;
      (2)   The nature and intensity of the operations involved in or
conducted;
      (3)   Its size, layout and its relation to pedestrian and vehicular
traffic to and from the use;
      (4)   The assembly of persons in connection with it will not be hazardous
to the neighborhood or be incongruous therewith or conflict with normal traffic
of the neighborhood;
      (5)   Considering among other things, convenient routes of pedestrian
traffic, particularly of children;
      (6)   Vehicular turning movements in relation to routes of traffic flow,
relation to street intersections, sight distance and the general character and
intensity of development of the neighborhood;
      (7)   The location and height of buildings, the location, nature and
height of walls, fences and the nature and extent of landscaping of the site
shall be such that the use will not hinder or discourage the appropriate
development and use of adjacent land and buildings or impair the value thereof;
      (8)   The nature, location, size and site layout of the uses shall be
such that it will be a harmonious part of the district in which it is situated
considering among other things, prevailing shopping habits, convenience of
access by prospective patrons, the physical and economic relationship of one
type of use to another; and
      (9)   The location, size, intensity and site layout of the use shall be
such that its operations will not be objectionable to nearby dwellings, because
of noise, fumes or flash of lights to a greater degree than in normal with
respect to the proximity of commercial to residential uses, nor interfere with
and adequate supply of light and air, nor increase the danger of fire or
otherwise endanger the public safety.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.269 REQUEST FOR LEGAL OPINION.
   Where a legal opinion is requested of the Village Attorney on a matter of
interpretation of this chapter regarding a matter being heard by the Zoning
Board, such opinion shall be binding upon said Board.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.270 MISCELLANEOUS.
   No order of the Zoning Board permitting the erection or alteration of
buildings shall be valid for a period longer than one year, unless a building
permit for such erection or alteration is obtained within such period and such
erection or alteration is commenced and proceeds to completion in accordance
with the terms of such permit. No order of the Zoning Board permitting a use of
a building or premises shall be valid for a period longer than one year unless
such use in established within such period; however, that the use of such
permit is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building, such order
shall continue in full force and effect if a building permit for such use,
erection or alteration is obtained within such period and such erections or
alterations are commenced and proceed to completion in accordance with the
terms of such permit.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 153.271 APPEALS TO COURT.
   All final administrative decisions of the Zoning Board rendered under the
terms of this chapter shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the
provisions of the Administrative Review Act approved May 8, 1945, and all
amendments thereof, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
APPENDIX A: ILLUSTRATIONS
   
App. A, Ill. 1   Basic structural terms
   
App. A, Ill. 2   Basement and story
   
App. A, Ill. 3   Building height
   
App. A, Ill. 4   Building line
   
App. A, Ill. 5   Floor area
   
App. A, Ill. 6   Interior, through and corner lots
   
App. A, Ill. 7   Yards
   
App. A, Ill. 8   Side yards abutting a street
   
App. A, Ill. 9   Parking layouts
   
App. A, Ill. 10      Greenbelt planting screen illustrations; transition
details
   
App. A, Ill. 11      Corner clearance
   
App. A, Ill. 12      Walls; transition details
   
App. A, Ill. 13      Berm illustrations; transition details
   
App. A, Ill. 14      Residential fence setbacks
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ILLUSTRATION 1: BASIC STRUCTURAL TERMS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2292.png]
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ILLUSTRATION 2: BASEMENT AND STORY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2304.png]
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ILLUSTRATION 3: BUILDING HEIGHT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2302.png]
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ILLUSTRATION 4: BUILDING LINE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2300.png]
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ILLUSTRATION 5: FLOOR AREA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2298.png]
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ILLUSTRATION 6: INTERIOR, THROUGH AND CORNER LOTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2296.png]
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ILLUSTRATION 7: YARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2294.png]
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ILLUSTRATION 8: SIDE YARDS ABUTTING A STREET
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2290.png]
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ILLUSTRATION 9: PARKING LAYOUTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2288.png]
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ILLUSTRATION 10: GREENBELT PLANTING SCREEN ILLUSTRATIONS; TRANSITION DETAILS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2306.png]
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ILLUSTRATION 11: CORNER CLEARANCE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2284.png]
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ILLUSTRATION 12: WALLS; TRANSITION DETAILS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2282.png]
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ILLUSTRATION 13: BERM ILLUSTRATIONS; TRANSITION DETAILS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2280.png]
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
ILLUSTRATION 14: RESIDENTIAL FENCE SETBACKS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2278.png]
 
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
APPENDIX B: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0d4a167f234b9235314a4eb9900beb3cd5ec487/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2276.png]
(Ord. 18-108, passed 5-7-2018)
CHAPTER 154: FLOODPLAINS
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Base flood elevation
   
154.04   Duties of the responsible official
   
154.05   Development permit
   
154.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
154.07   Protecting buildings
   
154.08   Subdivision requirements
   
154.09   Public health and other standards
   
154.10   Carrying capacity and notification
   
154.11   Variances
   
154.12   Disclaimer of liability
   
154.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.14   Violations
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the village
by the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-
30-8 and 5/11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, as well as flood rescue and relief operations;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available;
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion and protect aquatic and riparian habitat;
and
   (H)   To provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and
enhance community and economic development.
(Ord. 17-101, passed 1-16-2017)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
154.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally aboveground including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster.
      (1)   Damage to these CRITICAL FACILITIES can impact the delivery of
vital services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community or
can put special populations at risk.
      (2)   Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities,
major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers) and hazardous material storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
         (h)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface water from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These two terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the village, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, or that may be annexed into the
village, that are subject to inundation by the base flood.
      (1)   The FLOODPLAINS of the village are generally identified as such on
panel number(s) 0200E and 0225E of the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of
Tazewell County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated
February 17, 2017. FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas of known flooding as
identified by the community.
      (2)   The FLOODPLAINS of those parts of unincorporated Tazewell County
that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be
annexed into the village are generally identified as such on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map prepared for Tazewell County by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated February 17, 2017.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. No such rivers or streams have been delineated on the countywide
Flood Insurance Rate Map of Tazewell County prepared by FEMA and dated February
17, 2017. The floodways for any such river or stream identified in future
mapping of the village shall be according to the best data available from the
federal, state or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the Historic District or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on (he state inventory of historic places by
the State Historic Preservation Agency; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the State Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM. Illinois Department of Natural Resource
Office of Water Resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary
area of 640 acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of any stream
serving a tributary area of 6,400 acres or more in a rural area. Construction
on these STREAMS requires a permit from the Department (Ill. Admin. Code lit.
17, part 3700.30). The Department may grant approval for specific types of
activities by issuance of a statewide permit which meets the standards defined
in §
154.06.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including the
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
154.07.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL FRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four-hundred square feet or less in size; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duly truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See the definition of floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
      (1)   The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
      (2)   For a substantial improvement, ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a
building whether or not that alteration affects the externa) dimensions of the
building.
   STRUCTURE. See the definition of “building.”
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.
      (1)   Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of
restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal or exceed
50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred regardless
of actual repair work performed.
      (2)   Volunteer labor and materials must be included in this
determination. The term includes the definition of “repetitive loss buildings.”
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. The term includes structures which have incurred repetative loss
or substantial damage, reguardless of the actual repair work done.
      (3)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 17-101, passed 1-16-2017)
§ 154.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below.
      (1)   No such rivers, creeks or streams have been delineated on the 100-
year flood profiles in the countywide Flood Insurance Study of the county
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated June 24, 2015.
      (2)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an AH
Zone or AO Zone shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the county
wide Flood Insurance Rate Map of the county.
      (3)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an A Zone on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of the
county shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed by
the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
      (4)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of the
unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
village, or that may be annexed into the village, shall be as delineated on the
100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of the county prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated June 24, 2015.
   (B)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the party
shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace the existing
data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and 1DNR/OWR for approval prior
to any development of the site.
(Ord. 17-101, passed 1-16-2017)
§ 154.04 DUTIES OF THE RESPONSIBLE OFFICIAL.
   The Village President shall be responsible for the general administration of
this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains
under the jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this chapter.
Specifically, the Village President shall:
   (A)   Process development permits in accordance with §
154.05;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
154.06:
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
154.07 are met and maintain a record of the as-built elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
§
154.08;
   (E)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
154.09;
   (F)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
154.11 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
   (G)   Inspect all development projects and lake any and all penalty actions
outlined in §
154.13 as a necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (H)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
   (I)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (J)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (K)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   (L)   Maintain, for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
   (M)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   (N)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a modification
of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to
the floodplain map.
(Ord. 17-101, passed 1-16-2017)
§ 154.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Village President. The Village President shall not
issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
154.07; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the Village
President shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation.
Any development located on land that is shown by survey elevation to be below
the current base flood elevation is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
In addition, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected to a flood source, but not identified as
floodplain on the current Flood Insurance Rate Map is subject to the provisions
of this chapter. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey
data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been
filled after the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate Map is not in
the floodplain and therefore not subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   The Village President shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate
Map identification.
      (2)   The Village President shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state and local permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
Village President shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state and
local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 17-101, passed 1-16-2017) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the county wide Flood Insurance Rate Map
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development,
will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the State Department of Natural Resources Office of Water
Resources Statewide Permit Number 2;
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 3;
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 4;
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5;
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities such as underground utility
lines, light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding 70 square feet and raising
buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any other
activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6;
      (6)   Outfall Structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7;
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8;
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9;
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10;
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11;
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide Permit Number 12;
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide Permit Number 13; and
      (13)   Any Development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 17-101, passed 1-16-2017) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   General building protection requirements. In addition to the state
permit and damage prevention requirements of §
154.06, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section;
      (3)   (a)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These
repairs shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter;
         (b)   If substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the
flood protection standards of this section within 24 months of the date the
damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage);
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building, as defined in §
154.02.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings. Residential or non-
residential buildings can meet the building protection requirements by one of
the following methods.
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material; and
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following.
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters.
         (b)   All components located below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
         (c)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         (d)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square fool of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation.
         (e)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice and floating debris. Water and sewer pipes, electrical
and telephone lines, submersible pumps and other service facilities may be
located below the flood protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used solely for parking
or building access and not later modified or occupied as habitable space, or,
in lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply with these
requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace locator below the
flood protection elevation; provided, that the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
notation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade.
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point.
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of lime after a flood event.
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings. Non-residential buildings may be
structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu of elevation) provided a licensed
professional engineer or architect certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy and the
impact from debris and ice;
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodprooflng for the purpose of this section.
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers. Manufactured homes or travel
trailers to be permanently installed on site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with §
154.07(B); and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the State Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles. Travel trailers and
recreational vehicles on site for more than 180 days per year shall meet the
elevation requirements of §
154.07(D) unless the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light-
duty truck.
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      (5)   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      (6)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain;
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect;
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by used of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Minor accessory structures. Garages, sheds or other minor accessory
structures constructed ancillary to an existing residential use may be
permitted provided the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable.
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principle structure on the same lot.
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must bo built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, healing, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area.
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $15,000 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 576 square feet (24 feet by
24 feet).
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning.
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 17-101, passed 1-16-2017) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.08 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Village Board shall lake into account hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (B)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
154.06 and
154.07. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway, when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
   (C)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 17-101, passed 1-16-2017) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.09 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
154.06 and
154.07 the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
154.07.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permitted within the floodplain only if no
feasible alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within
the SFHA shall be elevated or structurally dry floodproofed to the 500-year
flood frequency elevation. In situations where a 500-year flood elevation has
not been determined, the flood protection elevation shall be three feet above
the 100-year flood frequency elevation. Floodproofing and sealing measures must
be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released
into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base
flood elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 17-101, passed 1-16-2017) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.10 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities, in
writing, 30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation of the watercourse.
(Ord. 17-101, passed 1-16-2017)
§ 154.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Undue hardship. Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue
hardship on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the
village’s Zoning Board of Appeals for a variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals
shall review the applicant’s request for a variance and shall submit its
recommendation to the Village Board. The Village Board may attach such
conditions to granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the
intent of this chapter.
   (B)   Conditions for variance. No variance shall be granted unless the
applicant demonstrates that all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other slate and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   Notification. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify an applicant,
in writing, that a variance from the requirements of the building protections
standards of §
154.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Historic structures. Variances to the building protection requirements
of §
154.07 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in §
154.02 may be granted using criteria more permissive than the requirements of
§§
154.06 and
154.07 subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
   (E)   Agriculture. Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall
be decided individually based on a case by case analysis of the building’s
unique circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as
well as those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter. In order to
minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and the threat to public
health and safety, the following conditions shall be included for any variance
issued for agricultural structures that are constructed at-grade and wet-
floodproofed.
      (1)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farm houses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
      (2)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in Zone A only as identified on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
      (3)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (such as foundation,
wall framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring and the like) below the
base flood elevation, must be built with flood-resistant materials in
accordance with §
154.07.
      (4)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structures in accordance with §
154.07. All of the building’s structural components must be capable of
resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic, buoyancy and
hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
      (5)   Any mechanical, electrical or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
154.07.
      (6)   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to
the 100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters in accordance with §
154.07(B).
      (7)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of §
154.06. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures within any
designated flood way.
      (8)   Wet-floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the Floodplain Administrator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction.
(Ord. 17-101, passed 1-16-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.12 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
      (2)   Larger floods may occur or flood heights may be increased by human-
made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that development either inside or outside
of the floodplain will be free from flooding or damage.
   (C)   This chapter does not create liability on the part of the village or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from proper
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 17-101, passed 1-16-2017)
§ 154.13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the Village
Board to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program,
including October 1, 2012. However, this chapter does not repeal the original
resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does
this chapter repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or
deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants
or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 17-101, passed 1-16-2017)
§ 154.14 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Village
President may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this
chapter exists. The Village President shall notify the owner, in writing, of
such violation.
   (B)   If such owner fails after ten days’ notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The village shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined in accordance with §
10.99 of this code of ordinances;
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
properly.
   (C)   The Village President shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (1)   The Village President is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in writing,
indicate the reason for the issuance and shall order the action, if necessary,
to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The stop-work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (2)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Written notice
of such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         (b)   The lime and place of the hearing.
      (3)   All such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or
revoked.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 17-101, passed 1-16-2017) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already herein provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 155: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Ground-mount solar systems prohibited
   
155.04   Roof-mount (SES) permitted as an accessory use
   
155.05   Building integrated systems
   
155.06   Community solar gardens (SES) prohibited
   
155.07   Commercial/large scale solar farms (SES) prohibited
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the construction, installation
and operation of solar energy systems (SES) in the village in a manner that
promotes economic development and ensures the protection of health, safety and
welfare, while also avoiding adverse impacts to important areas such as
agricultural lands, endangered species habitats, conservation lands and other
sensitive lands. It is the intent of this chapter to encourage the development
of SES that reduce reliance on foreign and out-of-state energy resources and
bolster local economic development and job creation. This chapter is not
intended to abridge safety, health or environmental requirements contained in
other applicable codes, standards or ordinances. The provisions of this chapter
shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
(Ord. 19-112, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY. As applied to a building, structure or use, one which is on the
same lot with, incidental to and subordinate to the main or principal structure
or use and which is used for purposes customarily incidental to the main or
principal structure, or the main or principal use.
   BUILDING INTEGRATED PHOTOVOLTAICS SYSTEMS. A solar energy system that
consists of integrating photovoltaic modules into the building structure as the
roof or façade and which does not alter the relief of the roof.
   COLLECTIVE SOLAR. Solar installations owned collectively through subdivision
homeowner associations, college student groups or other similar arrangements.
   COMMERCIAL/LARGE SCALE SOLAR FARMS. A utility scale commercial facility that
converts sunlight to electricity, whether by photovoltaics, concentrating solar
thermal devices or various experimental technologies for onsite or offsite use
with the primary purpose of selling wholesale or retail generated electricity.
   COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDEN. A community solar-electric (photovoltaic) array, of
no more than five acres in size, that provides retail electric power (or
financial proxy for retail power) to multiple households or businesses residing
in or located off-site from the location of the solar energy system.
   GROUND-MOUNT SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is directly
installed into the ground and is not attached or affixed to an existing
structure.
   NET METERING. A billing arrangement that allows solar customers to get
credit for excess electricity that they generate and deliver back to the grid
so that they only pay for their net electricity usage at the end of the month.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. A solar energy system that produces electricity by the
use of semiconductor devices calls photovoltaic cells that generate electricity
whenever light strikes them.
   QUALIFIED SOLAR INSTALLER. A trained and qualified electrical professional
who has the skills and knowledge related to the construction and operation of
solar electrical equipment and installations and has received safety training
on the hazards involved.
   ROOF-MOUNT. A solar energy system in which solar panels are mounted on top
of a building roof as either a flush mounted system or as modules fixed to
frames which can be tilted toward the south at an optical angle.
   SOLAR ACCESS. Unobstructed access to direct sunlight on a lot or building
through the entire year, including access across adjacent parcel air rights,
for the purpose of capturing direct sunlight to operate a solar energy system.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, structure or part of a device or structure for
which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical or electrical energy.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). The components and subsystems required to convert
solar energy into electric or thermal energy suitable for use. The area of the
system includes all the land inside the perimeter of the system, which extends
to any fencing. The term applies, but is not limited to, solar photovoltaic
systems, solar thermal systems and solar hot water systems.
   SOLAR STORAGE BATTERY/UNIT. A component of a solar energy device that is
used to store solar generated electricity or heat for later use.
   SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS. Systems that directly heat water or other liquid
using sunlight. The heated liquid is used for such purposes as space heating
and cooling, domestic hot water and heating pool water.
(Ord. 19-112, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 155.03 GROUND-MOUNT SOLAR SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   Ground-mount solar energy systems are not permitted in the village.
(Ord. 19-112, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.04 ROOF-MOUNT (SES) PERMITTED AS AN ACCESSORY USE.
   Roof-mount (SES) shall be permitted by a building permit in all zoning
districts where there is a principal structure. An application shall be
submitted to the Village Zoning Officer demonstrating compliance with §
153.193 in addition to the following requirements below.
   (A)   Height. Building or roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed
the maximum allowed height for principal structures in any zoning district.
   (B)   Setbacks. In addition to building setbacks the collector surface and
mounting devises for roof- mounted systems shall not extend beyond the exterior
perimeter of the building on which the systems are mounted or built, unless the
collector or mounting system has been engineered to safely extend beyond the
edge, and setback requirements are not violated. Exterior piping for solar hot
water systems shall be allowed to extend beyond the perimeter of the building
on a side yard exposure.
   (C)   Reflection angles. Reflection angles for solar collectors shall be
oriented such that they do not project glare onto adjacent properties. All
installations shall be manufactured with anti-glare technology.
   (D)   Safety.
      (1)   Roof-mounted or building-mounted solar energy systems, excluding
building integrated systems, shall allow for adequate roof access for
firefighting purposes.
      (2)   Roof-mounted or building-mounted solar energy systems shall meet
the requirements of the this code of ordinances.
      (3)   All solar energy systems shall be installed by a qualified solar
installer and plans sealed by, or a letter signed by, a structural engineer or
architect indicating the weight of the solar installation does not exceed the
allowable loading for the roof structure according to the applicable building
code.
      (4)   Any connection to the public utility grid shall be inspected by the
appropriate public utility.
      (5)   The installation shall be designed such that the amount of
electricity generated does not exceed 125% of the typical amount consumed for
the needs of the household.
      (6)   All solar energy systems shall be maintained and kept in good
working order. If it is determined by the village’s Code Compliance Officer
that a solar energy system is not being maintained, kept in good working order
or is no longer being utilized to perform as intended for six consecutive
months, the property owner shall be given 30-day notice for removal of the unit
and all equipment. If the solar energy system is not removed within 30 days,
the Code Compliance Officer shall issue a notice of violation.
   (E)   Approved solar components. Electric solar energy system components
shall have a UL listing or approved equivalent and solar hot water systems
shall have an SRCC rating.
   (F)   Restrictions on solar energy systems limited. Consistent with 765 ILCS
165, no homeowner’s agreement, covenant, common interest community or other
contracts between multiple property owners within the village shall prohibit or
restrict homeowners from installing solar energy systems.
(Ord. 19-112, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.05 BUILDING INTEGRATED SYSTEMS.
   Building integrated systems shall be permitted outright in all zoning
districts, but shall meet the requirements of the village’s zoning and building
code.
(Ord. 19-112, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.06 COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDENS (SES) PROHIBITED.
   Community solar gardens (SES) are not permitted in the village.
(Ord. 19-112, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.07 COMMERCIAL/LARGE SCALE SOLAR FARMS (SES) PROHIBITED.
   Commercial/large scale solar farm (SES) are not permitted in the village.
(Ord. 19-112, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 156: TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES
Section
Small Wireless Facilities
   
156.01   Purpose and scope
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Regulation of small wireless facilities; permit application
   
156.04   Dispute resolution
   
156.05   Indemnification
   
156.06   Insurance
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
§ 156.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Act.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This subchapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
subchapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
subchapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state
laws or regulations.
(Ord. 18-115, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing or mechanical
codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to
those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property or site, or
group of buildings, properties or sites that are either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with Section VI.D.I.a.i through Section VI.D.I.a.v of the Nationwide
Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 C.F.R. pt. 1, app. C; or
      (2)   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the village pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the State Historic Preservation office or where such
certification of the preservation program by the State Historic Preservation
office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical or other emergency services to respond
to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included
in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter; concealment elements;
telecommunications demarcation box; ground-based enclosures; grounding
equipment; power transfer switch; cut-off switch and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power; and other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration. WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless
facilities.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider, but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 18-115, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 156.03 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES; PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
paragraph division (D)(9) below, but not subject to zoning review or approval
if they are collocated in rights-of-way in any zoning district, or outside
rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the conditions
and requirements of divisions (C) through (I) below.
   (C)   Small cell facilities permit application.
      (1)   Permit requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the village, together with the village’s small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved.
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the Collocation
Requirements and Conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant’s
knowledge; and
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows.
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
            1.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
            2.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90
days after submission of the complete application or the 10 days after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this subchapter.
         (c)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
            1.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village, in
writing of his, her or its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no
sooner than 105 days after the submission of a completed application.
            2.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120
days after submission of the complete application or the tenth day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this subchapter.
         (d)   The village shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this subchapter. If the village determines that applicable
codes, ordinances or regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or
wireless support structure be replaced before the requested collocation,
approval shall be conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or
wireless support structure at the cost of the provider.
            1.   The village shall document the basis for a denial, including
the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
village denies an application.
            2.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
village and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application
fee. The village shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the village’s review period.
            3.   The applicant must notify the village, in writing, of his, her
or its intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved
basis, which may be submitted with the revised application. Any review of a
revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited in the denial.
However, this revised application does not apply if the cure requires the
review of a new location, new or different structure to be collocated upon, new
antennas or other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility.
         (e)   Within 30 days after an approved permit to collocate a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant
shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement, provided by the village
for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by the application. For
subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless facility on a
municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant shall enter into a
License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
      (3)   Completeness of application. Within 30 days after receiving an
application, the village shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the village must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the village fails to provide notification to the applicant within
30 days after all documents, information and fees specifically enumerated in
the village’s permit application form are submitted by the applicant to the
village. Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
village; or
         (b)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated applications.
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at the applicant’s
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities, if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the
application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been provided or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment or that are denied. The village may issue separate
permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration of permits.
         (a)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable village codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this subchapter.
         (b)   If the Act is repealed as provided in § 90 therein, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable village code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the village by personal
delivery at the village’s designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   (D)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village’s
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
subchapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies. The
wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
         (a)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency’s communications equipment.
         (b)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (c)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 C.F.R. §§ 22.970 through 22.973 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 90.672 through
90.675.
         (d)   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)    Poles part of an electric distribution or transmission system. The
wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities on village
utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or transmission system
within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or the electric supply
zone of the pole.
         (a)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the village utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the fop of the pole.
         (b)   For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms COMMUNICATIONS
SPACE, COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   Compliance.
         (a)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
         (b)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a village
ordinance, written policy adopted by the village, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      (7)   Alternate placements. Except as provided in this division (D), a
wireless provider shall not be required to collocation small wireless
facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility poles or be
required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole.
         (a)   However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a
small wireless facility associated with a new utility pole, the village may
propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility
pole or existing wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the village,
the applicant shall provide written certification describing the property
rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does
not satisfy the criteria in this paragraph.
      (8)   Height limitations.
         (a)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
         (b)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            1.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village; provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way
within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for such facility; or
            2.   Forty-five feet above ground level.
      (9)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a special use permit, variance or waiver in conformance with
procedures, terms and conditions set forth in the village’s zoning code.
      (10)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the village and
a private property owner that concern design or construction standards
applicable to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-
of-way.
      (11)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      (12)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests
to install such new utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do
not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
      (13)   Collocation completion deadline.
         (a)   Collocation for which a permit is granted shall be completed
within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless the village and the
wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is caused by make-
ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of commercial power or
backhaul availability at the site; provided the wireless provider has made a
timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the permit for commercial
power or backhaul services, and the additional time to complete installation
does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
         (b)   Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the village grants an
extension in writing to the applicant.
   (E)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
      (1)   Single small wireless facility. Applicant shall pay an application
fee of $650 for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and $350 for each small
wireless facility addressed in a consolidated application to collocate more
than one small wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless support
structures.
      (2)   New utility pole. Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000
for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Fee to accompany all applications. Notwithstanding any contrary
provision of state law or local ordinance, applications pursuant to this
section shall be accompanied by the required application fee. Application fees
shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   No fee required. The village shall not require an application,
approval or permit or require any fees or other charges from a communications
service provider authorized to occupy the rights-of-way for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with (C)(1)(d) above; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Permit required. Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the
village to work within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic
patterns or require lane closures.
   (F)   Exceptions to applicability.
      (1)   Prohibited areas of collocation. Nothing in this subchapter
authorizes a person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
         (a)   Property owned by a private party or properly owned or
controlled by the village or another unit of local government that is not
located within rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless
support structure without the consent of the property owner;
         (b)   Property owned, leased or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the State Highway Code; or
         (c)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201 of
the State Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter rail
service, or an electric utility as defined in § 16-102 of the Public Utilities
Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service or
electric utility. The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to an electric
or gas public utility or such utility’s wireless facilities if the facilities
are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the provisions of
section (i) of § 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
      (2)   Cable and video services exempt. For the purposes of this section,
PUBLIC UTILITY has the meaning given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public
Utilities Act. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to relieve any
person from any requirement to obtain a franchise or a state-issued
authorization to offer cable service or video service or to obtain any required
permission to install, place, maintain or operate communications facilities,
other than small wireless facilities subject to this subchapter.
   (G)   Pre-existing agreements.
      (1)   Date of agreement. Existing agreements between the village and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
village utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the village’s utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted to the village before June 1, 2018, subject
to applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this subchapter.
      (2)   On or after the Act. A wireless provider that has an existing
agreement with the village on the effective date of the Act may accept the
rates, fees and terms that the village makes available under this subchapter
for the collocation of small wireless facilities or the installation of new
utility poles for the collocation of small wireless facilities that are the
subject of an application submitted two or more years after the effective date
of the Act by notifying the village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and
terms. The existing agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable
termination provisions, for the small wireless facilities the wireless provider
has collocated on the village’s utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the village before the wireless provider provides such notice and
exercises its option under this paragraph.
   (H)   Annual recurring rate. A wireless provider shall pay to the village an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a village
utility pole located in a right-of-way that equals $200 per year, or the
actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless provider’s use of
space on the village utility pole. If the village has not billed the wireless
provider actual and direct costs, the fee shall be $200, payable on the first
day after the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice
of intent to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (I)   Abandonment. A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the
facility shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt
of written notice from the village notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      (1)   Notice; removal. The notice shall be sent by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the
last known address of the wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is
not removed within 90 days of such notice, the village may remove or cause the
removal of such facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement
for municipal utility poles or through whatever actions are provided for
abatement of nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
      (2)   Written notice. A wireless provider shall provide written notice to
the village if it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the
jurisdiction of the village. Such notice shall include the name and contact
information of the new wireless provider.
(Ord. 18-115, passed 8-20-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.04 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of the Tenth Judicial Circuit, Tazewell County, Illinois,
shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under the
Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. Pending resolution of a dispute
concerning rates for collocation of small wireless facilities on municipal
utility poles within the right-of-way, the village shall allow the collocating
person to collocate on its poles at annual rates of no more than $200 per year
per municipal utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution
of the dispute.
(Ord. 18-115, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 156.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the village harmless against
any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
village improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this subchapter and the Act. A wireless
provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the
village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any
claims that they may have against the village with respect to consequential,
incidental or special damages, however caused, based on the theory of
liability.
(Ord. 18-115, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 156.06 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the village. A wireless provider
that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to
comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this
section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the
village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure
the insurance coverage limits required by the village.
(Ord. 18-115, passed 8-20-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 157: SCHEDULE OF FEES FOR LAND USE
Section
   
157.01   Schedule adopted
§ 157.01 SCHEDULE ADOPTED.
   The following tables compromise the schedule of fees for land use in the
village (current as the last revisions dated December 2, 2019), which shall be
subject to change by resolution of the Village Board.
Building and zoning codes Fee
Building and zoning codes                                Fee
Existing building permits
 Addition to non-residential structure (total building  $1.50 per square foot,
  area under roof above grade)                           $500 minimum
 Addition to residential structure 400 square feet and  $100
  less
 Addition to residential structure more than 400 square $200
  feet
 Change of occupancy                                    $100
 Historic buildings                                     $300
 Level 2 alteration                                     $100
 Level 3 alteration                                     $200
 Relocated or moved buildings                           $300
Other miscellaneous permits
 Accessory structure (greater than 80 square feet)      $50
 Decks (greater than 80 square feet)                    $40
 Driveway (if not part of a structure permit)           $50
 Fences (taller than 2 feet)                            $40
 Signs (attached sign and free-standing sign)           $50
 Solar energy permit                                    $40
 Structure demolition                                   $50
 Swimming pool permit (pools deeper than 2 feet)        $40
Non-residential structure permits
 New construction (total building area under roof above $3 per square foot,
  grade)                                                 $1,000 minimum
Residential structure permits
 Multiple-family (three-unit fee)                       $500
 Multiple-family per unit above three                   $100
 Single-family                                          $300
 Two-family                                             $400
Violations
 First violation per day past designated date           $70
 Second violation per day past designated date          $150
 Maximum fine per day past designated date              $750
 
Land Use Board actions             Fee
Home occupation special use permit $40
Property zoning changes            $250
Special Board meeting              $550
Special use permits                $250
Zoning code variances              $250
Subdivision Regulations
 Number of Lots Base Fee Additional Fee/Lot Fee Range
Subdivision Regulations
                  Number of Lots Base Fee Additional Fee/Lot Fee Range
Condominium review fees                                      $20 per unit
                  Less than 5    $700     $0                 $700
                  6 to 10        $700     $50                $750 to $950
Construction plan 11 to 20       $950     $40                $990 to $1,350
review fees       21 to 40       $1,350   $30                $1,380 to $1,950
                  41 to 60       $1,950   $25                $1,975 o $2,450
                  61 to 100      $2,450   $20                $2,470 to $3,250
                  More than 100  $3,250   $10                $3,260 minimum
                  Less than 5    $150     $0                 $150
                  6 to 10        $150     $30                $180 to $300
                  11 to 20       $400     $20                $320 to $500
Final plat fee    21 to 40       $700     $15                $515 to $800
                  41 to 60       $1,100   $10                $810 to $1,000
                  61 to 100      $1,400   $8                 $1,008 to $1,320
                  More than 100  $1,800   $5                 $1,325 minimum
                  Less than 5    $150     $0                 $150
                  6 to 10        $150     $30                $180 to $300
Preliminary plat  11 to 20       $400     $20                $320 to $500
fee               21 to 40       $700     $15                $515 to $800
                  41 to 60       $1,100   $10                $810 to $1,000
                  61 to 100      $1,400   $8                 $1,008 to $1,320
                  More than 100  $1,800   $5                 $1,325 minimum
 
 
Water and Sewer Service Connections                                Fee
Sanitary connection                                                $2,000
(main tee and cleanout supplied and installed by applicant)
Water connection
(main tap and 0.75-inch meter supplied by village and installed by $2,000
applicant)
 
(Ord. 19-115, passed 12-2-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Sudbdivision regulation fees, also found in §
152.24
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   REDEVELOPMENT AREAS AND ENTERPRISE ZONES
TABLE I: REDEVELOPMENT AREAS AND ENTERPRISE ZONES
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
04-  4-19-  Approving the Eastside Redevelopment Plan under § 11-74.4-5 of the Tax
106  2004   Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act (65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et seq.) and the
            adoption of tax increment financing
04-  4-19-  Designating the Eastside Redevelopment Project Area, pursuant to § 11-74.4-
107  2004   4 of the Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act (65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et
            seq.)
04-  4-19-  Adopting tax increment financing for the Eastside Redevelopment Project
108  2004   Area, pursuant to the Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act (65 ILCS 5/
            11-74.4-1 et seq.)
14-  11-17- Designating, as an enterprise zone, portions of the City of Pekin, the
113  2014   Village of Morton, the County of Tazewell and the Village of Tremont,
            pursuant to the Enterprise Zone Act (20 ILCS 655/1 et seq.)
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                                              Code Section
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                                    30.27
5 ILCS 120/2.01                                         30.28
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.                                  36.01
5 ILCS 430/5-15                                         36.01
5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 430/10-40                      36.01
5 ILCS 430/50-5                                         36.01
5 ILCS 430/70-5                                         36.01
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)                                      36.01
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)                                      36.01
20 ILCS 655/1 et seq.                                   TSO Table I
20 ILCS 1605                                            135.02
20 ILCS 1605/7.12                                       135.02
20 ILCS 2910/0.01 et seq.                               137.02
                                                        34.01;
20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.                                  34.03;
                                                        34.09;
                                                        34.12
30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.                                   51.110
35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.                                   35.016
35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.                                   35.062
35 ILCS 636/5-50                                        35.103
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.                                    35.084;
                                                        35.085
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.                                   33.15
50 ILCS 710                                             137.02
55 ILCS 5/3-9005                                        137.02
55 ILCS 5/5-1127                                        70.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                                         10.99;
                                                        154.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1                                       10.99
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25                                     33.09
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-25                                     92.04
65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-5                                      31.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10                                     31.12
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1                                        35.001
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5                                        35.015
65 ILCS 5/8-11-22                                       35.045
35 ILCS 5/8-11-24                                       35.120,
                                                        35.121
65 ILCS 5/11-1-5                                        132.02
65 ILCS 5/11-5-1                                        112.09
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12                                      154.01
65 ILCS 5/11-20-3.1                                     97.26
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2                                       154.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8                                       154.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1                                       150.003
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2                                       154.01
65 ILCS 5/11-40-1                                       71.001;
                                                        75.01
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3                                       97.26
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4 et seq.                               37.01
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et seq.                             TSO Table I
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(a)                                  37.01
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(c)                                  37.01
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(d)(9)                               37.01
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-6(e)                                  37.01
65 ILCS 20/0.01 et seq.                                 51.122
70 ILCS 1205/3-9                                        70.01
105 ILCS 5/2-3.51.5                                     71.002
205 ILCS 5/5g                                           135.01;
                                                        135.02
205 ILCS 5/42.7                                         135.01
205 ILCS 5/7008                                         135.01
205 ILCS 205/7008                                       135.02
220 ILCS 5/21-201(v)                                    98.046
220 ILCS 5/21-301(c)                                    35.081
220 ILCS 5/21-401                                       35.080;
                                                        98.046
220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)(6)                                 35.080;
                                                        35.081
220 ILCS 5/21-801                                       35.080
220 ILCS 5/21-801(b)                                    35.080
220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi)                             35.080
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.                                   98.060
220 ILCS 65/4                                           98.049
225 ILCS 447                                            137.02
225 ILCS 447/5-5 et seq.                                137.02
225 ILCS 605/1 et seq.                                  90.091
230 ILCS 5/1 et seq.                                    113.23
230 ILCS 10                                             135.02;
                                                        135.03
230 ILCS 15                                             135.02
230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.                                113.23
230 ILCS 20                                             135.02
230 ILCS 25                                             135.02
230 ILCS 30                                             135.02
                                                        135.01;
230 ILCS 40                                             135.02;
                                                        135.03
                                                        113.24;
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.                                   114.028;
                                                        135.05
230 ILCS 40/65                                          135.05
                                                        113.01;
                                                        113.02;
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.                                  113.20;
                                                        113.22—
                                                        113.25
235 ILCS 5/6-27.1                                       113.51
235 ILCS 5/6-11                                         113.20;
                                                        113.40
415 ILCS 5/3.365                                        152.03
415 ILCS 5/3.215                                        71.098
415 ILCS 5/3.220                                        71.098
                                                        71.098;
415 ILCS 5/3.360                                        136.01;
                                                        136.02
415 ILCS 105/3                                          71.098
415 ILCS 105/3(a)                                       136.01
415 ILCS 105/4                                          136.02
415 ILCS 105/5                                          136.03
415 ILCS 105/6                                          136.04
415 ILCS 105/8                                          136.02;
                                                        136.06
415 ILCS 105/8(a), (b), (d), (e)                        136.99
415 ILCS 105/8(b)                                       136.99
415 ILCS 105/9                                          136.05
415 ILCS 105/10                                         136.06;
                                                        136.99
430 ILCS 65/0.01 through 65/16.3                        Ch. 137
515 ILCS 5                                              137.03
520 ILCS 5                                              137.03
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.                                98.046
605 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                                  70.35
605 ILCS 120/50                                         136.99
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.                                136.01
625 ILCS 5/1-102                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-104.2                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-105                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-106                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-107                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-108                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-111.8                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-112                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-116                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-117.7                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-120                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-120.7                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-125                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-126                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-130                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-131                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-132                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-133.1                                      71.001
625 ILCS 5/1-135                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-136                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-137                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-138                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-139.1                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140.10                                     70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140.15                                     70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-141                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-145.001                                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-146                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-147                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.2                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.3                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.3a-5                                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.6                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-153                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-154                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-155                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-156                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-157                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-157.5                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-158                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-159.1                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162.3                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162.5                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-163                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-166                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-166.1                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-167                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-167.5                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-168                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-169                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171.6                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171.8                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-172                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-174                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-176                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-177                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-178                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-179                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-181                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-182                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-187                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-187.1                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-188                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-193                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-194                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-195                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-196                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-197                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-199                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-200                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-201                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-203                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-205                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-205.1                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-207                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-208                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-209                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-210.01                                     70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-211                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-211.01                                     70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-212                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-113                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-214                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-214.8                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-217                                        70.01
625 ILCS 5/3-101(d)                                     70.01
625 ILCS 5/3-609                                        72.17
625 ILCS 5/3-616                                        72.17
625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.                                97.26
625 ILCS 5/4-203                                        76.05
625 ILCS 5/4-213(b)                                     76.05
625 ILCS 5/6-204                                        76.05
                                                        71.075;
625 ILCS 5/6-500                                        71.076;
                                                        71.078
625 ILCS 5/7-601                                        76.07
625 ILCS 5/11-203                                       70.15;
                                                        70.99
625 ILCS 5/11-205                                       70.16
625 ILCS 5/11-206                                       70.17
                                                        70.01;
625 ILCS 5/11-301                                       72.17;
                                                        72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-302                                       70.41
625 ILCS 5/11-305                                       70.30
625 ILCS 5/11-306                                       70.31
625 ILCS 5/11-307                                       70.32
625 ILCS 5/11-308                                       70.33
625 ILCS 5/11-309                                       70.34
625 ILCS 5/11-310                                       70.35
625 ILCS 5/11-311                                       70.36;
                                                        70.99
625 ILCS 5/11-312                                       70.37;
                                                        70.99
625 ILCS 5/11-313                                       70.38
625 ILCS 5/11-401(a) - (b-1)                            76.03
625 ILCS 5/11-401(e)                                    76.03
625 ILCS 5/11-402                                       76.05
625 ILCS 5/11-403                                       76.04
625 ILCS 5/11-404                                       76.06
625 ILCS 5/11-409                                       76.08
625 ILCS 5/11-415                                       76.07
625 ILCS 5/11-501.1                                     76.03
625 ILCS 5/11-503(a)                                    76.01
625 ILCS 5/11-506                                       76.02
625 ILCS 5/11-601                                       71.001
625 ILCS 5/11-601(a) - (c)                              71.001
625 ILCS 5/11-604                                       71.001
625 ILCS 5/11-605                                       71.001;
                                                        74.02
625 ILCS 5/11-605(a)                                    71.002
625 ILCS 5/11-605(c)                                    71.002
625 ILCS 5/11-605(e)                                    71.002
625 ILCS 5/11-605(f)                                    71.002
625 ILCS 5/11-605.1                                     71.002
625 ILCS 5/11-606(a)                                    71.004
625 ILCS 5/11-611                                       71.003
625 ILCS 5/11-701                                       71.035
625 ILCS 5/11-702                                       71.036
625 ILCS 5/11-703                                       71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-703(a) - (e)                              71.037
625 ILCS 5/11-703(f)                                    71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-704                                       71.038
625 ILCS 5/11-705                                       71.038
625 ILCS 5/11-706                                       71.038
                                                        71.037,
625 ILCS 5/11-707                                       71.038,
                                                        71.042
625 ILCS 5/11-708                                       71.041
625 ILCS 5/11-709                                       71.043
625 ILCS 5/11-710                                       71.091
625 ILCS 5/11-711                                       71.101
625 ILCS 5/11-801                                       71.015
625 ILCS 5/11-802                                       71.015
625 ILCS 5/11-803                                       71.017
625 ILCS 5/11-804                                       71.018
625 ILCS 5/11-805                                       71.019
625 ILCS 5/11-806                                       71.019
625 ILCS 5/11-901                                       71.055
625 ILCS 5/11-902                                       71.055
625 ILCS 5/11-903                                       71.057
625 ILCS 5/11-904                                       71.058
625 ILCS 5/11-905                                       71.059
625 ILCS 5/11-906                                       71.060
                                                        71.035;
625 ILCS 5/11-907                                       71.043;
                                                        71.061
625 ILCS 5/11-907(a)(1)                                 71.061
625 ILCS 5/11-907(b)                                    71.061
625 ILCS 5/11-907.5                                     71.043
625 ILCS 5/11-908                                       71.035;
                                                        71.043
625 ILCS 5/11-1001                                      74.01
625 ILCS 5/11-1001 et seq.                              74.08
625 ILCS 5/11-1002                                      74.02
625 ILCS 5/11-1002.5                                    74.02
625 ILCS 5/11-1003                                      74.03
625 ILCS 5/11-1003.1                                    74.04
625 ILCS 5/11-1004                                      74.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1004.1                                    74.13
625 ILCS 5/11-1005                                      74.06
625 ILCS 5/11-1005.1                                    74.14
625 ILCS 5/11-1006                                      74.07
625 ILCS 5/11-1007                                      74.08
625 ILCS 5/11-1008                                      74.09
625 ILCS 5/11-1009                                      74.10
625 ILCS 5/11-1010                                      74.11
625 ILCS 5/11-1011                                      74.12;
                                                        74.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1201(a) - (e)                             71.075
625 ILCS 5/11-1202                                      71.076
625 ILCS 5/11-1204                                      70.41
625 ILCS 5/11-1205                                      71.077
625 ILCS 5/11-1301                                      72.15
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1                                    72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2                                    72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(a) - (a-2)                         72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(b)                                 72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(c)                                 72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(d), (e), (g)                       72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(f)                                 72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1302                                      72.45
625 ILCS 5/11-1303                                      72.15;
                                                        72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1304                                      72.01;
                                                        72.15
625 ILCS 5/11-1305                                      72.46
625 ILCS 5/11-1401                                      72.02
625 ILCS 5/11-1402                                      71.090
625 ILCS 5/11-1403                                      73.20
625 ILCS 5/11-1403.1                                    73.25
625 ILCS 5/11-1403.2                                    73.23
625 ILCS 5/11-1404                                      73.21
625 ILCS 5/11-1405                                      73.22
625 ILCS 5/11-1406                                      71.092
625 ILCS 5/11-1407                                      71.093
625 ILCS 5/11-1410                                      71.094
625 ILCS 5/11-1411                                      71.095
625 ILCS 5/11-1412                                      71.095
625 ILCS 5/11-1412.1                                    71.096
625 ILCS 5/11-1412.2                                    71.096
625 ILCS 5/11-1413                                      71.098
625 ILCS 5/11-1414                                      71.040
625 ILCS 5/11-1414(a) - (e)                             71.040
625 ILCS 5/11-1416                                      71.099
625 ILCS 5/11-1418                                      71.100
625 ILCS 5/11-1420                                      71.062
625 ILCS 5/11-1425                                      71.078
625 ILCS 5/11-1502                                      73.01
625 ILCS 5/11-1503                                      73.02
625 ILCS 5/11-1504                                      73.03
625 ILCS 5/11-1505                                      73.04
625 ILCS 5/11-1505.1                                    73.04
625 ILCS 5/11-1506                                      73.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1507                                      73.06
625 ILCS 5/11-1507.1                                    73.24
625 ILCS 5/12                                           75.01
625 ILCS 5/12-101                                       75.01
625 ILCS 5/12-208                                       71.018;
                                                        71.019
625 ILCS 5/12-215                                       70.16
625 ILCS 5/12-215(b)(12)                                72.15
625 ILCS 5/12-601                                       74.10
625 ILCS 5/12-709                                       73.42
                                                        70.01;
625 ILCS 5/12-801                                       71.075 ;
                                                        71.076
625 ILCS 5/12-802(a)                                    70.01
                                                        70.01;
625 ILCS 5/12-803                                       71.040;
                                                        71.075 ;
                                                        71.076
                                                        70.01;
625 ILCS 5/12-805                                       71.040;
                                                        71.075 ;
                                                        71.076
625 ILCS 5/15-101                                       75.01
625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq.                               75.01
625 ILCS 5/15-105                                       75.16
625 ILCS 5/15-106                                       75.17
625 ILCS 5/15-109                                       75.18
625 ILCS 5/15-114                                       75.19
625 ILCS 5/16-101 et seq.                               70.99
625 ILCS 5/1101.05                                      97.26
720 ILCS 5/2-2                                          130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-3                                          130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-4                                          130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-12                                         130.01
720 ILCS 5/4-4                                          130.02
720 ILCS 5/4-5                                          130.02
720 ILCS 5/4-6                                          130.04
720 ILCS 5/4-7                                          130.05
720 ILCS 5/8-4                                          130.06
720 ILCS 5/11-20                                        134.02 
720 ILCS 5/11-21                                        134.03
720 ILCS 5/11-21(e)                                     134.03
720 ILCS 5/11-21(g)                                     134.03
720 ILCS 5/11-30(a), (b)                                134.01
720 ILCS 5/11-30(c)                                     134.01
720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.                                135.01
720 ILCS 5/21-1                                         131.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(1)                                   137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2)                                   137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2.5)                                 137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(3)                                   137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(4)                                   137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(5)                                   137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(6), (7), (8) and (9)                 137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(7)                                   137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(10)                                  137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(11)                                  137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(13)                                  137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(14)                                  137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(15)                                  137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(16)                                  137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(c)                                      137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(e)                                      137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1.9                                       137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-2(a)                                      137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(b)                                      137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(d)                                      137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(f)                                      137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(g)                                      137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(g-6)                                    137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(h)                                      137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(i)                                      137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1                                       137.03
720 ILCS 5/24-6                                         137.04
720 ILCS 5/24.8-0.1                                     137.15
720 ILCS 5/24.8-1                                       137.16
720 ILCS 5/24.8-2                                       137.17 
720 ILCS 5/24.8-3                                       137.18;
                                                        137.19
720 ILCS 5/24.8-4                                       137.19
720 ILCS 5/24.8-5                                       137.20
720 ILCS 5/28-1                                         135.02
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a), (b), (d)                            135.02
720 ILCS 5/28-2                                         135.01
720 ILCS 5/28-3                                         135.03
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(12) or 28-1.1 or 28-3 113.23
720 ILCS 5/28-5(a)                                      135.04
720 ILCS 5/28-5(b)                                      135.04
720 ILCS 5/31-1                                         133.01
720 ILCS 5/31-8                                         133.02
720 ILCS 5/32-9                                         133.03
720 ILCS 5/330                                          111.02
720 ILCS 5/330-1                                        111.02
720 ILCS 135/0.01 et seq.                               111.02
720 ILCS 150/0.01 et seq.                               111.02
720 ILCS 535/4                                          137.18;
                                                        137.19
720 ILCS 535/5                                          137.19
720 ILCS 535/6                                          137.20
720 ILCS 545/0.01 through 545/7                         Ch. 137
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.                                  111.02
720 ILCS 550/12                                         134.04
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.                                111.02
720 ILCS 570/102                                        134.04
720 ILCS 570/505                                        134.04
720 ILCS 640/0.01 et seq.                               111.02
720 ILCS 646/1 et seq.                                  134.04
720 ILCS 670/0.01 et seq.                               111.02
725 ILCS 210/1 et seq.                                  137.02
730 ILCS 5                                              137.02
765 ILCS 165                                            155.04
765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.                                  152.03;
                                                        152.22
765 ILCS 205/1(b)(9)                                    152.03
765 ILCS 205/2                                          154.08
765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.                                  152.07
765 ILCS 605/25                                         152.07
805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.                                 113.20;
                                                        113.23
805 ILCS 5/101.01 et seq.                               113.02
805 ILCS 110/0.1 et seq.                                135.05
815 ILCS 5/3                                            135.02
815 ILCS 5/8                                            135.02
                                                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code        2022 Code
10.01             10.01
10.02             10.02
10.03             10.03
10.04             10.04
10.05             10.05
10.06             10.06
10.07             10.07
10.08             10.08
10.09             10.09
10.10             10.10
10.11             10.11
10.12             10.12
10.13             10.13
10.14             10.14
10.15             10.15
10.16             10.16
10.17             10.17
10.18             10.18
10.19             10.19
10.99             10.99
30.01             30.01
30.02             30.02
30.03             30.03
30.04             30.04
30.15             30.15
30.16             30.16
30.17             30.17
30.18             30.18
30.19             30.19
30.20             30.20
30.21             30.21
30.22             30.22
30.23             30.23
30.24             30.24
30.25             30.25
30.26             30.26
30.27             30.27
30.40             30.40
30.41             30.41
30.42             30.42
30.43             30.43
30.44             30.44
30.45             30.45
30.46             30.46
30.47             30.47
31.01             31.01
31.02             31.02
31.03             31.03
31.04             31.04
31.05             31.05
31.06             31.06
31.07             31.07
31.08             31.08
31.09             31.09
31.10             31.10
31.11             31.11
31.12             31.12
31.25             31.25
31.26             31.26
31.27             31.27
31.28             31.28
31.29             31.29
31.30             31.30
32.01             32.01
32.02             32.02
32.20             32.15
32.21             32.16
32.22             32.17
32.23             32.18
32.24             32.19
32.25             32.20
32.26             32.21
33.01             33.01
33.02             33.02
33.03             33.03
33.04             33.04
33.05             33.05
33.06             33.06
33.07             33.07
33.08             33.08
33.09             33.09
33.10             33.10
33.11             33.11
33.12             33.12
33.13             33.13
33.14             33.14
33.15             33.15
33.16             33.15
34.01             34.01
34.02             34.02
34.03             34.03
34.04             34.04
34.05             34.05
34.06             34.06
34.07             34.07
34.08             34.08
34.09             34.09
34.10             34.10
34.11             34.11
34.12             34.12
35.01             35.001
35.02             35.002
35.03             35.003
35.15             35.015
35.16             35.016
35.17             35.017
35.30             35.030
35.31             35.031
35.32             35.032
36.01             36.01
50.02             50.01
50.04             50.02
50.05             50.03
50.06             50.04
50.07             50.05
50.08             50.06
50.99             50.99
51.001            51.001
51.002            51.002
51.003            51.003
51.004            51.004
51.005            51.005
51.006            51.006
51.007            51.007
51.008            51.008
51.009            51.009
51.020            51.020
51.021            51.021
51.022            51.022
51.023            51.023
51.024            51.024
51.025            51.025
51.035            51.040
51.036            51.041
51.037            51.042
51.038            51.043
51.039            51.044
51.040            51.045
51.041            51.046
51.042            51.047
51.043            51.048
51.044            51.049
51.045            51.050
51.046            51.051
51.047            51.052
51.048            51.053
51.049            51.054
51.050            51.055
51.051            51.056
51.060            51.070
51.061            51.071
51.062            51.072
51.063            51.073
51.064            51.074
51.065            51.075
51.085            51.090
51.086            51.091
51.087            51.092
51.088            51.093
51.089            51.094
51.090            51.095
51.091            51.096
51.092            51.097
51.093            51.098
51.094            51.099
51.100            51.110
51.101            51.111
51.102            51.112
51.103            51.113
51.104            51.114
51.105            51.115
51.106            51.116
51.107            51.117
51.108            51.118
51.111            51.121
51.112            51.122
51.113            51.123
51.114            51.124
51.115            51.125
51.130            51.170
51.131            51.171
51.132            51.172
51.133            51.173
51.999            51.999
52.01             52.001
52.02             52.002
52.03             52.003
52.04             52.004
52.15             52.015
52.16             52.016
52.17             52.017
52.18             52.018
52.20             52.020
52.21             52.021
52.22             52.022
52.23             52.023
52.24             52.024
52.25             52.024
52.35             52.040
52.36             52.041
52.37             52.042
52.38             52.043
52.50             52.055
52.51             52.056
52.60             52.070
52.61             52.071
52.62             52.072
52.63             52.073
52.64             52.074
52.65             52.075
70.01             70.01
70.10             70.15
70.11             70.16
70.12             70.17
70.13             70.18
70.30             70.30
70.31             70.31
70.32             70.32
70.33             70.33
70.34             70.34
70.35             70.35
70.36             70.36
70.37             70.37
70.38             70.38
70.39             70.39
70.40             70.40
70.41             70.41
70.99             70.99
71.001            71.001
71.002            71.002
71.003            71.003
71.004            71.004
71.020            71.015
71.021            71.016
71.022            71.017
71.023            71.018
71.024            71.019
71.025            71.020
71.040            71.035
71.041            71.036
71.042            71.037
71.043            71.038
71.044            71.039
71.045            71.040
71.046            71.041
71.047            71.042
71.048            71.043
71.060            71.055
71.061            71.056
71.062            71.057
71.063            71.058
71.064            71.059
71.065            71.060
71.066            71.061
71.067            71.062
71.080            71.075
71.081            71.076
71.082            71.077
71.083            71.078
71.095            71.090
71.096            71.091
71.097            71.092
71.098            71.093
71.099            71.094
71.100            71.095
71.101            71.096
71.102            71.097
71.103            71.098
71.104            71.099
71.105            71.100
71.106            71.101
71.120            71.115
71.121            71.116
71.122            71.117
71.123            71.118
71.124            71.119
71.125            71.120
71.126            71.121
71.127            71.122
71.128            71.123
71.129            71.124
71.130            71.125
71.131            71.126
71.999            71.999
72.01             72.01
72.02             72.02
72.10             72.15
72.11             72.16
72.12             72.17
72.13             72.18
72.14             72.19
72.26             72.31
72.40             72.45
72.41             72.46
72.99             72.99
73.01             73.01
73.02             73.02
73.03             73.03
73.04             73.04
73.05             73.05
73.06             73.06
73.20             73.20
73.21             73.21
73.22             73.22
73.23             73.23
73.24             73.24
73.25             73.25
74.01             74.01
74.02             74.02
74.03             74.03
74.04             74.04
74.05             74.05
74.06             74.06
74.07             74.07
74.08             74.08
74.09             74.09
74.10             74.10
74.11             74.11
74.12             74.12
74.13             74.13
74.14             74.14
74.99             74.99
75.01             75.01
75.10             75.15
75.11             75.16
75.12             75.17
75.13             75.18
75.14             75.19
75.15             75.20
76.01             76.01
76.02             76.02
76.03             76.03
76.04             76.04
76.05             76.05
76.06             76.06
76.07             76.07
76.08             76.08
76.09             76.09
76.99             76.99
Ch. 77, Schd. I   Ch. 77, Schd. I
Ch. 77, Schd. II  Ch. 77, Schd. II
Ch. 77, Schd. III Ch. 77, Schd. III
Ch. 77, Schd. IV  Ch. 77, Schd. IV
Ch. 78, Schd. I   Ch. 78, Schd. I
Ch. 78, Schd. II  Ch. 78, Schd. II
90.001            90.001
90.002            90.002
90.030            90.015
90.031            90.016
90.032            90.017
90.033            90.018
90.034            90.019
90.035            90.020
90.036            90.021
90.037            90.022
90.038            90.023
90.039            90.024
90.040            90.025
90.050            90.040
90.051            90.041
90.052            90.042
90.053            90.043
90.054            90.044
90.055            90.045
90.056            90.046
90.057            90.047
90.058            90.048
90.059            90.049
90.060            90.050
90.061            90.051
90.062            90.052
90.063            90.053
90.064            90.054
90.065            90.055
90.066            90.056
90.067            90.057
90.068            90.058
90.069            90.059
90.080            90.070
90.081            90.071
90.082            90.072
90.083            90.073
90.084            90.074
90.085            90.075
90.086            90.076
90.087            90.077
90.100            90.090
90.101            90.091
90.102            90.092
90.103            90.093
90.999            90.999
91.01             91.01
91.02             91.02
91.03             91.03
91.99             91.99
92.01             92.01
92.02             92.02
92.03             92.03
92.04             92.04
92.05             92.05
92.06             92.06
92.07             92.07
92.99             92.99
93.01             93.001
93.02             93.002
93.10             93.015
93.20             93.030
93.21             93.031
93.22             93.032
93.23             93.033
93.24             93.034
93.25             93.035
93.35             93.050
93.36             93.051
93.45             93.065
93.46             93.066
93.47             93.067
93.48             93.068
93.60             93.080
93.61             93.081
93.62             93.082
93.63             93.083
93.99             93.999
94.01             94.01
94.02             94.02
94.99             94.99
95.01             95.01
95.02             95.02
95.03             95.03
95.04             95.04
95.05             95.05
95.06             95.06
95.07             95.07
95.20             95.20
95.21             95.21
95.22             95.22
95.23             95.23
95.24             95.24
95.25             95.25
95.26             95.26
95.27             95.27
95.28             95.28
95.99             95.99
96.01             96.01
96.02             96.02
96.99             96.99
97.01             97.01
97.02             97.02
97.03             97.03
97.04             97.04
97.05             97.05
97.06             97.06
97.15             97.20
97.16             97.21
97.17             97.22
97.18             97.23
97.19             97.24
97.20             97.25
97.22             97.27
97.23             97.28
97.35             97.40
97.36             97.41
97.37             97.42
97.38             97.43
97.39             97.44
97.40             97.45
97.99             97.99
98.01             98.001
98.02             98.002
98.03             98.003
98.04             98.004
98.05             98.005
98.06             98.006
98.07             98.007
98.08             98.008
98.09             98.009
98.20             98.020
98.21             98.021
98.22             98.022
98.23             98.023
98.24             98.024
98.25             98.025
98.26             98.026
98.27             98.027
98.28             98.028
98.29             98.029
98.30             98.030
98.60             98.080
98.61             98.081
98.62             98.082
98.63             98.083
98.64             98.084
98.99             98.999
99.01             99.01
99.02             99.02
99.03             99.03
99.04             99.04
99.05             99.05
99.20             99.20
99.21             99.21
99.22             99.22
99.23             99.23
99.24             99.24
99.25             99.25
99.98             99.26
99.99             99.99
110.01            110.01
110.02            110.02
110.03            110.03
110.04            110.04
110.05            110.05
110.06            110.06
110.07            110.07
110.08            110.08
110.09            110.09
110.10            110.10
110.11            110.11
110.12            110.12
110.13            110.13
110.14            110.14
112.01            112.01
112.02            112.02
112.03            112.03
112.04            112.04
112.05            112.05
112.06            112.06
112.07            112.07
112.08            112.08
112.09            112.09
112.10            112.10
112.11            112.11
112.12            112.12
114.01            114.001
114.02            114.002
114.03            114.003
114.04            114.004
114.05            114.005
114.06            114.006
114.07            114.007
114.08            114.008
114.09            114.009
114.20            114.020
114.21            114.021
114.22            114.022
114.23            114.023
114.24            114.024
114.25            114.025
114.26            114.026
114.27            114.027
114.28            114.028
114.40            114.040
114.41            114.041
114.50            114.055
114.51            114.056
115.01            115.01
115.02            115.02
115.03            115.03
115.04            115.04
115.05            115.05
115.06            115.06
115.07            115.07
115.08            115.08
115.09            115.09
116.01            116.01
116.02            116.02
116.03            116.03
116.04            116.04
117.01            117.01
117.02            117.02
117.03            117.03
117.04            117.04
117.15            117.15
117.16            117.16
117.17            117.17
118.01            118.01
118.02            118.02
118.03            118.03
118.04            118.04
118.05            118.05
118.99            118.99
130.01            130.01
130.02            130.02
130.03            130.03
130.04            130.04
130.05            130.05
130.06            130.06;
                  130.99
130.99            130.99
131.01            131.01
131.02            131.02
131.03            131.03
131.99            131.07
132.01            132.01
132.02            132.02
133.01            133.01
133.02            133.02
133.03            133.03
134.01            134.01
134.02            134.02
134.03            134.03
134.04            134.04
134.99            134.99
135.01            135.01
135.02            135.02
135.03            135.03
135.04            135.04
136.01            136.01
136.02            136.02;
                  136.99
136.03            136.03;
                  136.99
136.04            136.04;
                  136.99
136.05            136.05
136.06            136.06;
                  136.99
136.07            136.07
137.01            137.01
137.02            137.02
137.03            137.03
137.04            137.04
137.10            137.15
137.11            137.16
137.12            137.17;
                  137.99
137.13            137.18
137.14            137.19
137.15            137.20
150.01            150.001
150.15            150.015
150.25            150.030
150.35            150.045
151.01            151.01
151.02            151.02
151.15            151.15
151.16            151.16
151.17            151.17
151.30            151.30
151.31            151.31
151.32            151.32
151.33            151.33
151.34            151.34
151.35            151.35
151.36            151.36
151.37            151.37
151.50            151.50
151.51            151.51
151.52            151.52
151.53            151.53
151.54            151.54
151.55            151.55
151.56            151.56
151.99            151.99
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         Ch. 77, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 77, Schd. III
501      - -         Ch. 77, Schd. II
                     95.20—
480      6-1-1970    95.28;
                     95.99
482      6-1-1970    131.02
498      7-9-1973    Ch. 78, Schd. I
502      12-10-1973  72.18
503      5-13-1974   98.030;
                     98.999
506      11-4-1974   Ch. 77, Schd. II
507      12-2-1974   Ch. 77, Schd. II
509      3-3-1975    75.20
516      7-14-1975   Ch. 78, Schd. I
519      1-12-1976   Ch. 78, Schd. II
532      8-14-1978   134.04;
                     134.99
                     91.01—
535      7-14-1979   91.03;
                     91.99
541      9-10-1979   134.04;
                     134.99
540      11-4-1979   Ch. 77, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 78, Schd. I
                     90.001;
                     90.015—
                     90.025;
                     90.040—
80-102   4-7-1980    90.059;
                     90.070—
                     90.077;
                     90.090—
                     90.093 
81-105   11-9-1981   114.041
81-106   11-9-1981   30.17
83-101   2-7-1983    Ch. 77, Schd. II
86-101   2-3-1986    Ch. 78, Schd. I
                     51.002;
86-102   4-21-1986   51.043;
                     52.024
86-103   4-21-1986   51.043;
                     51.044
                     51.110—
                     51.118,
86-107   12-15-1986  51.121—
                     51.125;
                     51.999
87-101   2-2-1987    51.114;
                     51.118
88-101   2-1-1988    Ch. 78, Schd. I
88-102   2-15-1988   Ch. 77, Schd. II
                     51.040;
                     51.070;
88-108   9-28-1988   51.071;
                     51.074;
                     51.172;
                     51.999
88-109   9-28-1988   51.114
88-107   11-19-1988  Ch. 78, Schd. I
88-110   12-5-1988   Ch. 78, Schd. I
88-111   12-5-1988   51.009;
                     51.999
89-101   3-20-1989   52.070—
                     52.075
89-104   7-17-1989   72.19
                     95.01—
                     95.07;
89-103   7-24-1989   95.99;
                     99.21—
                     99.26;
                     99.99
89-106   9-5-1989    Ch. 77, Schd. III
90-104   11-17-1990  Ch. 77, Schd. II
91-102   9-19-1991   Ch. 77, Schd. III
94-101   5- -1994    51.042
94-105   11-7-1994   93.002
94-106   11-7-1994   Ch. 77, Schd. II
95-105   12-4-1995   Ch. 77, Schd. II
96-101   5-6-1996    90.041
96-102   6-17-1996   52.024
97-104   10-6-1997   33.15
98-101   1-5-1998    98.030
98-104   8-3-1998    Ch. 77, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 77, Schd. III
00-101   6-19-2000   117.02;
                     117.16
00-104   8-7-2000    151.17
00-106   9-18-2000   136.02;
                     136.99
01-1033  1-23-2001   134.06
01-102   6-18-2001   111.01—
                     111.20
01-104   9-4-2001    Ch. 77, Schd. II
02-104   9-3-2002    72.15
04-103   2-16-2004   37.01
04-106   4-19-2004   TSO Table I
04-107   4-19-2004   TSO Table I
04-108   4-19-2004   TSO Table I
04-109   5-3-2004    36.01
05-103   6-6-2005    33.05
05-107   11-7-2005   71.102
05-109   12-19-2005  52.055
                     113.01—
                     113.03;
                     113.15—
06-101   4-17-2006   113.28;
                     113.40—
                     113.67;
                     113.99
07-101   1-15-2007   Ch. 78, Schd. I
07-103   6-4-2007    113.40
07-104   7-2-2007    113.19
07-106   9-17-2007   52.055
08-101   2-18-2008   Ch. 77, Schd. II
08-103   6-16-2008   Ch. 77, Schd. II
08-105   7-21-2008   113.01;
                     113.17
                     30.02;
08-107   11- -2008   30.03;
                     31.25
09-101   2-16-2009   30.04
09-103   5-4-2009    30.15
09-106   7-20-2009   33.02
10-103   3-1-2010    Ch. 78, Schd. III
                     93.002;
                     132.01;
                     132.02;
10-102   3-15-2010   132.99;
                     134.04;
                     138.01—
                     138.03
10-105   6-7-2010    Ch. 77, Schd. III
10-107   8-2-2010    113.17
10-108   8-16-2010   131.05;
                     131.06
10-109   9-7-2010    52.019
                     134.05;
11-104   6-6-2011    134.06;
                     134.99
12-101   3-5-2012    134.07;
                     134.99
12-102   4-2-2012    131.07
12-103   5-7-2012    33.15
                     113.24;
13-102   3-4-2013    135.02;
                     135.05
13-105   7-1-2013    73.40—
                     73.44
13-107   7-15-2013   52.015
13-108   9-3-2013    Ch. 77, Schd. II
14-101   2-17-2014   113.19
14-103   4-7-2014    30.28
14-104   4-7-2014    30.27
14-113   11-17-2014  TSO Table I
15-101   5-4-2015    52.055
15-111   12-7-2015   52.055
                     152.01—
                     152.07;
                     152.20—
16-102   4-4-2016    152.24;
                     152.35—
                     152.51;
                     152.65
16-103   4-18-2016   52.055
                     154.01—
17-101   1-16-2017   154.14;
                     154.99
17-105   6-5-2017    113.02;
                     113.51
17-112   8-21-2017   52.055
18-103   1-15-2018   Ch. 77, Schd. II
18-107   4-2-2018    35.060—
                     35.068
                     153.001—
                     153.007;
                     153.020—
                     153.026;
                     153.040;
                     153.055—
                     153.059;
                     153.070—
                     153.074;
                     153.085—
                     153.090;
                     153.105—
                     153.110;
                     153.125—
                     153.130;
18-108   5-7-2018    153.145—
                     153.149;
                     153.160—
                     153.164;
                     153.175—
                     153.178;
                     153.190—
                     153.208;
                     153.220—
                     153.230;
                     153.245—
                     153.251;
                     153.265—
                     153.271;
                     Ch. 153, App. A;
                     Ch. 153, App. B
18-111   7-2-2018    151.30;
                     151.31
18-113   8-6-2018    131.08
18-114   8-6-2018    131.06
18-115   8-20-2018   156.01—
                     156.06
18-116   8-20-2018   151.30
                     113.17;
18-119   12-17-2018  113.18;
                     135.05
19-103   3-4-2019    134.06
19-106   5-6-2019    Ch. 78, Schd. I
19-107   6-17-2019   113.17
19-109   8-5-2019    153.193
19-111   9-16-2019   35.045;
                     35.046
19-112   9-16-2019   155.01—
                     155.07
                     150.001—
                     150.003;
                     150.015;
                     150.030;
19-113   10-21-2019  150.045;
                     150.060;
                     150.075;
                     150.090;
                     150.105;
                     150.120
19-114   10-7-2019   119.01—
                     119.03
19-115   12-2-2019   152.24;
                     157.01
20-106   5-28-2020   120.01—
                     120.05
21-120   - -2021     98.045—
                     98.067
21-121   - -2021     35.080—
                     35.085
21-122   - -2021     97.26
21-123   - -2021     72.16
21-126   6-7-2021    153.193
21-127   - -2021     134.04
21-129   - -2021     Ch. 77, Schd. II
21-131   - -2021     Ch. 77, Schd. II
21-104   2-1-2021    72.03
22-104   - -2022     50.01;
                     50.07
22-105   - -2022     31.31
22-106   - -2022     51.114;
                     52.055
22-109   6-6-2022    132.03
22-110   6-6-2022    132.02
22-111   6-20-2022   30.03
22-112   8-15-2022   35.100—
                     35.104
22-113   8-15-2022   98.031
22-114   9-9-2022    Ch. 78, Schd. III
22-115   10-3-2022   153.210
22-117   11-7-2022   35.061
22-118   12-5-2022   153.180—
                     153.182
                     153.056;
22-119   12-5-2022   153.057;
                     153.088
22-122   12-5-2022   51.118
22-123   12-5-2022   52.015
22-124   12-5-2022   51.118;
                     51.119
22-125   12-5-2022   52.019;
                     52.056
23-105   2-20-2023   52.055
23-106   3-23-2023   100.01—
                     100.03
23-107   3-6-2023    113.50
23-108   4-3-2023    51.114;
                     52.055
23-111   7-5-2023    52.055
23-113   8-21-2023   153.209
23-114   9-18-2023   Ch. 77, Schd. II
23-116   11-6-2023   Ch. 77, Schd. II
24-104   3-4-2024    113.50
                     121.01—
24-105   3-18-2024   121.03;
                     121.20—
                     121.27
24-106   4-15-2024   51.114;
                     52.055
                     73.41;
24-107   5-20-2024   73.43;
                     73.44
24-113   9-3-2024    152.43
24-114   9-3-2024    153.057
24-117   9-16-2024   98.083
24-118   10-21-2024  153.147,
                     153.196
25-103   2-3-2025    152.43
25-105   3-3-2025    35.120—
                     35.122
25-106   3-17-2025   113.19
25-107   3-1-2025    113.17
25-108   3-17-2025   51.114;
                     52.055
25-109   3-17-2025   72.30—
                     72.31
                    
 
 
